Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Frequently Asked Questions

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Coulter

## What is Translational Research?

Translational research is driven primarily by considerations of use and
practical applications of the research results, as opposed to basic research,
which is driven primarily by a quest for knowledge. Translational research
must develop a practical solution that addresses a particular clinical problem
or unmet clinical need. Because translational research involves clinical
application as a goal, it requires a transition (a translation) of the
research from the laboratory to the clinic (“bench to bedside”). Translational
research involves commercialization activities, and therefore requires a
transition (a translation) of the technology (technology transfer) from the
academic institution to a commercial entity for final product development,
manufacturing and sales. Translational research results generally include
protectable intellectual property.

## What about Intellectual Property?

The policy of the Coulter Foundation is that the entire right, title and
interest to any invention or discovery and which is conceived or first
actually reduced to practice in the course of performance under a grant from
the Foundation, shall be assigned to and retained by the institution receiving
the grant, unless the institution is proscribed from doing so by Federal laws
or regulations. If the institution decides not to patent or otherwise develop
the invention or discovery, the inventor(s) shall be free to patent or
otherwise develop the invention subject to any rights that the institution may
retain under its patent policy.

## How to Cite The Grant

"Funding provided by the Duke-Coulter Translational Research Partnership
Program. The program supports collaborative research projects that address
unmet clinical needs and lead to improvements in health care and to commercial
products. _Details at:_ _bme.duke_ _.edu/coulter_ _"_

## Duke-Coulter Contacts

### Barry Myers

Coulter Program Director

__919-660-5150

__barry.myers@duke.edu

### Melissa Hall

Associate Coulter Program Director

__919-668-2153

__melissa.hall@duke.edu

### Rachel Karatz

Staff Specialist, Coulter Partnership

__919-660-5076

__rachel.karatz@duke.edu

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

