Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# Academic Curricular Groups

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. PhD

Students pursue research within one of the following academic curricular
groups, with mentorship from world-class faculty

## Computer Engineering

The computer engineering group plays a critical role in innovating in the
computing ecosystem, with research that spans from new computational devices
to systems and software. Computer engineering research includes cyber-physical
systems, dependability, networking, machine learning, mobile computing, novel
computing devices, power-efficient computing and security. Many computer
engineering research projects are inter-disciplinary, and there are many
collaborations with the Department of Computer Science.

### View Associated Faculty

    

### Tyler K Bletsch

Assistant Professor of the Practice in the Department of Electrical and
Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Software security, robotics, project-oriented education,
and datacenter efficiency

### John A. Board

Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: High performance scientific computing and simulation,
novel computer architectures, cluster computing and parallel processing;
ubiquitous computing.

### Robert Calderbank

Charles S. Sydnor Distinguished Professor of Computer Science

### Tingjun Chen

Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Wireless networking, next-generation wireless and optical
networks, edge cloud and computing, Internet-of-Things (IoT), mobile and
embedded systems, platforms and testbeds

### Yiran Chen

Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Emerging memory and storage technologies Embedded systems,
CPS, edge computing, and mobile applications Neuromorphic computing, deep
learning and system security Low power circuit and system

### Shaundra Daily

Professor of Practice in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Identity-inclusive computing, Human-centered design &
engineering, justice-centered STEM education

### Neil Gong

Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Security, privacy, and machine learning.

### Maria Gorlatova

Nortel Networks Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Architectures, algorithms, and protocols for emerging
mobile pervasive systems and the Internet of Things. Our work crosses
traditional discipline boundaries and requires thinking across multiple layers
of system and protocol stacks. We are focusing on breaking the barriers for…

### Andrew Douglas Hilton

Professor of the Practice in the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering

Research Interests: Computer architecture, specifically architectural support
for security and energy-efficient performance

### Hai "Helen" Li

Clare Boothe Luce Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Neuromorphic computing systems Machine learning
acceleration and trustworthy AIEmerging memory technologies, circuit and
architecture Low power circuits and systems

### Xin Li

Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Integrated circuits, signal processing and data analytics

### Genevieve Lipp

Assistant Professor of the Practice in the Department of Electrical and
Computer Engineering

### Crystal Noel

Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Quantum computing and simulation with trapped ions,
integrated photonics for scalable trapped ion systems, and electric-field
noise from surfaces

### Miroslav Pajic

Dickinson Family Associate Professor

Research Interests: Design and analysis of autonomous cyber-physical systems
(CPS), and in particular, embedded systems, AI, learning and controls, CPS
security and high-assurance autonomy, with various application domains
including robotics, automotive, and medical systems

### Jian Pei

Professor of Computer Science

### Michael Reiter

James B. Duke Distinguished Professor

Research Interests: Prof. Reiter's research interests include all areas of
computer and communications security, fault-tolerant distributed computing,
and applied cryptography.

### Cynthia D. Rudin

Earl D. McLean, Jr. Professor

### Daniel J. Sorin

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Computer architecture, designing microarchitectures so
that they are easier to verify, improving computer system fault tolerance,
developing memory systems for multicore processors, and designing special-
purpose accelerators

### Kishor S. Trivedi

Hudson Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Markov models, Fault trees, Stochastic Petri nets,
Reliability Modeling, Availability Modeling, Performability modeling,
Survivability modeling, Cyber Security, Software reliability, Software Fault
Tolerance, Software Aging and Rejuvenation

### Lisa Wills

Clare Boothe Luce Assistant Professor of Computer Science and Electrical and
Computer Engineering

Research Interests: I enjoy solving difficult problems surrounding
computations with the goal to process large volumes of data efficiently. My
research interests include computer architecture and microarchitecture,
hardware-software co-designs, accelerators, and emerging application domains
―…

### Rabih Younes

Assistant Professor of the Practice in the Department of Electrical and
Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Wearable computing, activity recognition, context
awareness, machine learning, artificial intelligence, engineering education,
and Middle Eastern politics

## Engineering Physics

Duke ECE is also the home of international leaders in information physics
research, embodied in pathbreaking programs in metamaterials, quantum devices,
and optical systems. This interdisciplinary research involves the design,
fabrication and testing of revolutionary new devices, based on novel physical
concepts, with a foundation in rigorous computational modeling in
electromagnetics and quantum mechanics.

### View Associated Faculty

    

### April S. Brown

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

### Kenneth R Brown

Michael J. Fitzpatrick Distinguished Professor of Engineering

Research Interests: Quantum error correction, quantum control, quantum
computer architecture, ion trap quantum computing, and the spectroscopy of
sympathetically cooled molecular ions

### Robert Calderbank

Charles S. Sydnor Distinguished Professor of Computer Science

### Lawrence Carin

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Applied statistics and machine learning

### Leslie M. Collins

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Physics-based machine learning algorithms for big data,
including developing remediation strategies for the hearing impaired and
sensor-based algorithms for the detection of hazardous buried objects

### Steven A. Cummer

William H. Younger Distinguished Professor of Engineering

Research Interests: Theoretical and experimental electromagnetic problems
related to geophysical remote sensing and engineered electromagnetic
materials.

### Michael E. Gehm

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Primarily computational and compressive sensing and
measurement in all modalities (with special emphasis in
Electromagnetic/Optical from RF to x-ray and all forms of Mass spectrometry),
with side interests in optical physics, high-performance x-ray simulation, and
rapid-…

### Jeffrey Glass

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Electronic materials and the associated
devices/instruments improved by these materials, especially electrode
applications in miniature mass spectrometry, energy conversion and storage and
liquid waste disinfection for developing regions. Electrochemical measurements
and…

### William T. Joines

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Electromagnetic field and wave interactions with materials
and structures

### Nan Marie Jokerst

J. A. Jones Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

### Jungsang Kim

Schiciano Family Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer
Engineering

Research Interests: Quantum Computing with Trapped Ions, Quantum Information
Science, Novel Photonic Devices, Application of Quantum Computers

### Jeffrey L. Krolik

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Physics-based and statistical signal processing, sensor
array processing, radar and sonar systems, pervasive distributed processing

### Natalia Litchinitser

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Nanophotonics; Photonic Metamaterials; Nonlinear Optics;
Fiber Optics; Photonic Crystal Fibers

### Qing Huo Liu

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Computational electromagnetics and acoustics; inverse
problems, and their application in geophysics, nanophotonics, and biomedical
imaging

### Iman Marvian

Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Quantum information and computation theory

### Maiken Mikkelsen

James N. and Elizabeth H. Barton Associate Professor of Electrical and
Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Quantum nanophotonics, plasmonics, light-matter
interactions in artificially structured nanoscale materials, hybrid molecular-
scale materials and spin phenomena in the solid state

### Christopher R Monroe

Gilhuly Family Presidential Distinguished Professor

Research Interests: quantum physics, applications in quantum information
science

### Loren W. Nolte

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Bayesian approach to signal detection, classification,
estimation, tracking and decision and sensor fusion. Applications in ocean
acoustics, and in medical imaging for cancer research.

### Willie John Padilla

Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Theoretical and experimental investigation of
electromagnetic metamaterials and metasurfaces, and their application to
imaging and sensing at microwave, terahertz, and infrared frequencies

### Guillermo Sapiro

James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Image and video processing, computer vision, computer
graphics, computational vision, biomedical imaging, brain imaging, cryo-
tomography of viruses, computational tools in cryo-tomography, computational
tools in early diagnosis of psychiatric disorders, differential geometry and…

### David R. Smith

James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Theory, simulation and demonstration of novel
electromagnetic metamaterials across the spectrum, from microwave through
optical. Applications of metamaterials for antennas and imaging devices, with
a focus on security imaging and satellite imaging. General studies on
advanced…

### Adrienne Stiff-Roberts

Jeffrey N. Vinik Professor

Research Interests: Thin-film deposition, MAPLE, hybrid perovskites, hybrid
nanocomposites, organic thin films

## Microelectronics, Photonics and Nanotechnology

The fourth research area, microelectronics, photonics and nanotechnology
(MPN), is highly vertically integrated, ranging from innovative materials,
devices, and interconnects, through chip scale integrated systems. MPN
research includes revolutionary microfluidic systems, nanoelectronics,
optoelectronics, integrated optics, sensors, integrated multifunctional
systems, energy conversion devices, and quantum sensors. The MPN research is
highly interdisciplinary, and focused on design, fabrication through Duke’s
Shared Materials Instrumentation Facility (SMIF) cleanroom and
characterization facility, and device and system test.

### View Associated Faculty

    

### Martin A. Brooke

Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Analog, RF, and optoelectronic circuits. Sensor interface
circuits. Deployable sensor systems

### April S. Brown

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

### Kenneth R Brown

Michael J. Fitzpatrick Distinguished Professor of Engineering

Research Interests: Quantum error correction, quantum control, quantum
computer architecture, ion trap quantum computing, and the spectroscopy of
sympathetically cooled molecular ions

### Richard B. Fair

Lord-Chandran Distinguished Professor of Engineering

Research Interests: Microfluidic systems for lab-on-a-chip applications based
on electrowetting technology

### Aaron D. Franklin

Addy Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Nanomaterials in electronic devices, nanofabrication,
printed electronics and internet of things (IoT), biosensing

### Michael E. Gehm

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Primarily computational and compressive sensing and
measurement in all modalities (with special emphasis in
Electromagnetic/Optical from RF to x-ray and all forms of Mass spectrometry),
with side interests in optical physics, high-performance x-ray simulation, and
rapid-…

### Jeffrey Glass

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Electronic materials and the associated
devices/instruments improved by these materials, especially electrode
applications in miniature mass spectrometry, energy conversion and storage and
liquid waste disinfection for developing regions. Electrochemical measurements
and…

### William T. Joines

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Electromagnetic field and wave interactions with materials
and structures

### Nan Marie Jokerst

J. A. Jones Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

### Jungsang Kim

Schiciano Family Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer
Engineering

Research Interests: Quantum Computing with Trapped Ions, Quantum Information
Science, Novel Photonic Devices, Application of Quantum Computers

### Qing Huo Liu

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Computational electromagnetics and acoustics; inverse
problems, and their application in geophysics, nanophotonics, and biomedical
imaging

### Hisham Z. Massoud

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Ultrathin gate dielectrics for CMOS ULSI – the technology,
physics, modeling, simulation, and characterization of ultrathin-oxide MOSFETs

### Maiken Mikkelsen

James N. and Elizabeth H. Barton Associate Professor of Electrical and
Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Quantum nanophotonics, plasmonics, light-matter
interactions in artificially structured nanoscale materials, hybrid molecular-
scale materials and spin phenomena in the solid state

### Willie John Padilla

Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Theoretical and experimental investigation of
electromagnetic metamaterials and metasurfaces, and their application to
imaging and sensing at microwave, terahertz, and infrared frequencies

### Tania Roy

Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Neuromorphic computing • high-energy electronics

### David R. Smith

James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Theory, simulation and demonstration of novel
electromagnetic metamaterials across the spectrum, from microwave through
optical. Applications of metamaterials for antennas and imaging devices, with
a focus on security imaging and satellite imaging. General studies on
advanced…

### Adrienne Stiff-Roberts

Jeffrey N. Vinik Professor

Research Interests: Thin-film deposition, MAPLE, hybrid perovskites, hybrid
nanocomposites, organic thin films

## Signal and Information Processing

A particular strength is in the area of signal and information processing
(SIP), embodied by successful collaborations between ECE, statistics and
applied mathematics. Duke has long been a leader in SIP research with defense
applications, and there has also been a significant expansion into biomedical
applications, in collaboration with the Duke University Medical Center.

### View Associated Faculty

    

### Martin A. Brooke

Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Analog, RF, and optoelectronic circuits. Sensor interface
circuits. Deployable sensor systems

### Robert Calderbank

Charles S. Sydnor Distinguished Professor of Computer Science

### Lawrence Carin

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Applied statistics and machine learning

### Tingjun Chen

Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Wireless networking, next-generation wireless and optical
networks, edge cloud and computing, Internet-of-Things (IoT), mobile and
embedded systems, platforms and testbeds

### Yiran Chen

Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Emerging memory and storage technologies Embedded systems,
CPS, edge computing, and mobile applications Neuromorphic computing, deep
learning and system security Low power circuit and system

### Leslie M. Collins

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Physics-based machine learning algorithms for big data,
including developing remediation strategies for the hearing impaired and
sensor-based algorithms for the detection of hazardous buried objects

### Mary "Missy" Cummings

Adjunct Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Human-unmanned vehicle interaction, human-autonomous
system collaboration, human-systems engineering, public policy implications of
unmanned vehicles, and the ethical and social impact of technology.

### Ingrid Daubechies

James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Mathematics and Electrical and
Computer Engineering

### Michael E. Gehm

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Primarily computational and compressive sensing and
measurement in all modalities (with special emphasis in
Electromagnetic/Optical from RF to x-ray and all forms of Mass spectrometry),
with side interests in optical physics, high-performance x-ray simulation, and
rapid-…

### Michael Richard Gustafson II

Associate Professor of the Practice of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Computational methods for image analysis and information
extraction, discrete event simulations, curriculum development and deployment

### Lisa Gresham Huettel

Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School Professor of the Practice of Electrical and
Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Engineering education, pedagogy and curriculum
development, applications of statistical signal processing

### Jeffrey L. Krolik

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Physics-based and statistical signal processing, sensor
array processing, radar and sonar systems, pervasive distributed processing

### Hai "Helen" Li

Clare Boothe Luce Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Neuromorphic computing systems Machine learning
acceleration and trustworthy AIEmerging memory technologies, circuit and
architecture Low power circuits and systems

### Loren W. Nolte

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Bayesian approach to signal detection, classification,
estimation, tracking and decision and sensor fusion. Applications in ocean
acoustics, and in medical imaging for cancer research.

### Douglas Nowacek

Randolph K. Repass and Sally-Christine Rodgers University Distinguished
Professor of Conservation Technology in Environment and Engineering

Research Interests: Marine mammal behavioral and acoustic ecologyOcean
noiseOffshore renewable energy

### Miroslav Pajic

Dickinson Family Associate Professor

Research Interests: Design and analysis of autonomous cyber-physical systems
(CPS), and in particular, embedded systems, AI, learning and controls, CPS
security and high-assurance autonomy, with various application domains
including robotics, automotive, and medical systems

### Henry Pfister

Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Information theory, communications, probabilistic
graphical models, machine learning, and deep neural networks

### Galen Reeves

Associate Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Information theory, high-dimensional statistical
inference, statistical signal processing, compressed sensing, machine learning

### Christ D Richmond

Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

### Cynthia D. Rudin

Earl D. McLean, Jr. Professor

### Guillermo Sapiro

James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Image and video processing, computer vision, computer
graphics, computational vision, biomedical imaging, brain imaging, cryo-
tomography of viruses, computational tools in cryo-tomography, computational
tools in early diagnosis of psychiatric disorders, differential geometry and…

### Stacy L. Tantum

Associate Professor of the Practice in the Department of Electrical and
Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Signal detection and estimation theory, statistical signal
processing, pattern recognition and machine learning, remote sensing, matched-
field processing, and ocean acoustics

### Vahid Tarokh

Rhodes Family Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Foundations of AI, Foundations of Signal Processing,
Learning Representations, Transfer Learning, Meta-Learning, Physics Infused
Learning, Extreme Value Theory, Dependence Modeling, Hypothesis Testing,
Sequential Analysis.

  * Quick Facts & Statistics
  * More about Student Services & Amenities
  * Meet Engineering PhD Alumni

Browse Online

____

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## PhD Contacts

### Michael E. Gehm

Director of Graduate Studies and Professor of Electrical and Computer
Engineering

__919-660-5544

__dgs@ee.duke.edu

### Angela Chanh

Senior Program Coordinator

__919-660-5245

__angela.chanh@duke.edu

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

