Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# PhD Certificates & Training Programs

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. PhD

## CertificateS

### Biomolecular and Tissue Engineering

The PhD certificate program in Biomolecular and Tissue Engineering integrates
engineering, life sciences, and medicine. The program emphasizes research,
graduate education and interactions with industry. Learn more »

### Nanoscience

Duke BME participates in the university-wide Graduate Certificate Program in
Nanoscience for PhD and master's students—which provides an interdisciplinary
education in the broad areas of nanoscience and nanomaterials. Learn more »

### Photonics

The Duke Photonics Certificate provides a venue for master's and PhD students
to learn more about photonics as a path to interdisciplinary research and
technology development. Students develop interdisciplinary and transferable
sets of skills in course work and research. Learn more »

* * *

## Training Programs

### AI for Understanding and Designing Materials (aiM)

**AI** for Understanding and Designing **M** aterials ( **aiM** ) is an NSF-
funded graduate training program that provides students with integrated
training for both materials and computer scientists to advance the frontiers
of research and training at the intersection of data-driven artificial
intelligence and materials science research. The proram is open to PhD
students across the physical sciences, mathematics, computer science,
materials science, and engineering. Learn more »

### Biomolecular and Tissue Engineering

Through NIH-supported biotechnology pre-doctoral (PhD) training grant, the
Duke Center for Biomolecular and Tissue Engineering (CBTE) supports **stipend,
tuition and fees** for nine (9) pre-doctoral fellows, with The Graduate School
at Duke contributing a tenth fellowship for a fellow who is not a United
States citizen. Students are awarded fellowships in their first or second year
of study, and are supported for two years. Learn more »

### Traineeship for the Advancement of Surgical Technologies (TAST)

The NSF-funded Traineeship for the Advancement of Surgical Technologies (TAST)
prepares graduate students to design advanced surgical technologies that
benefit society through technical coursework, real-world surgical design
challenges, professional development and study of legal, ethical, societal and
economic considerations. TAST is a two-year program open to PhD and master’s
students in the Pratt School of Engineering as well as the Department of
Computer Science. Learn more » _(scroll down to the "Research Traineeship
Programs" header and open the "TAST" link)_

### Medical Scientist Training Program (MD/PhD)

Duke 's MD/PhD dual-degree program, the Medical Scientist Training Program
(MSTP), prepares physician-scientists for high-level research careers in the
biomedical sciences and academic medicine. It successfully integrates the
clinical curriculum of Duke's School of Medicine with graduate education in
engineering, or in a science basic to medicine. Learn more »

  * Quick Facts & Statistics
  * More about Student Services & Amenities
  * Meet Engineering PhD Alumni

Browse Online

____

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## PhD Contacts

### Joel Collier

Director, Graduate Studies

__919-660-5590

__joel.collier@duke.edu

### Danielle Giles

PhD Program Coordinator

__919-660-5590

__danielle.giles@duke.edu

### Jamel Forbes

Staff Specialist, PhD Program

__919-660-5131

__jamel.forbes@duke.edu

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

