

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2017

# From Entrepreneurs to Encapsio

June 19, 2017

A Q&A with Three Duke Entrepreneurs Marrying Technology with Business

_It’s 9 a.m. at Twinnie’s Cafe. I am scheduled to meet with the three founders
of a new Duke startup called Encapsio: Wyatt Shields, Wes Day and Nick Kirby.
Day and Kirby are both MBA candidates at the Fuqua School of Business, and
Shields is a recent graduate of the Pratt School of Engineering. Before
entering the cafe, I had gone over the conversation in my head many times:
lots of technical terms I wouldn’t know, intense conversations about business,
etc. With a somewhat nervous anticipation, I open the door and hear Wyatt
talking to Nick about the plan for the day. They spot me and welcome me with
two million-dollar smiles—maybe this wasn’t going to be as nerve-wracking as I
thought. We sit down and begin with an introduction about Encapsio. The
startup aims to protect and controllably release active ingredients in topical
formulations with a novel particle encapsulation and delivery system for
skincare and other applications. Despite the fact that Encapsio started only a
year ago, the trio has won numerous grants and plans to launch its first
product early next year._

**Can you briefly describe your background?**

_Kirby_ : I am currently a second-year MBA candidate at Fuqua and the CEO of
Encapsio. I have a background in chemical engineering and have always been
passionate about startups and came to Duke with an intention to pursue one.
Like me, Wes is also a second-year MBA at Fuqua and the current CFO. He came
to Fuqua with a background in finance. We soon identified our shared passion
for startups, so we decided to team up, reaching out to various inventors on
campus through the OLV (Office of Licensing and Ventures). After reviewing
more than 30 potential options, we finally decided on Wyatt's silicone
particle technology. Wyatt has a background in biomedical engineering and
materials science. He received his PhD degree in biomedical engineering from
Duke in 2016 and is currently a postdoctoral associate at the Research
Triangle MRSEC (Materials Research Science and Engineering Center).

**What is the research about?**

_Shields_ : Early on, my work focused on finding a way to make silicone
particles uniform in size and precisely tunable in stiffness. The goal was to
make an acoustic cell sorter. When Nick and Wes met me, we considered a wide
range of applications extending well beyond cell separation—for instance, yoga
mats, inks, paints, foods, pesticides, etc. Based on extensive research and a
substantial number of conversations with experts in various industries, we
decided that skincare is a huge industry that is relatively underserved, and
our technology is ideally suited to make a major impact.

**What led you to the decision to work with Dr. Shields specifically?**

_Kirby_ : Wes and I ultimately set on Wyatt's research as we wanted to select
a technology that could be brought to the marketplace within a relatively
short timeframe. Wyatt's technology is unique in that it can be adapted to
solve different problems across industries, which is a good recipe for a
startup and matches with our interests to build a business on a candid
platform technology.

**What is the biggest challenge you have run into so far?**

_Shields_ : The biggest challenge at this moment is trying to close the gap
between what we produce in the lab and what the companies want to see. During
the early phases, our team focused on achieving proof-of-principle performance
metrics to show our technology works, but we are now moving on to the testing
phase of our spheres in a final formulation. This entails controlled release
studies through human skin samples as well as human toxicity studies, both of
which are currently under way through third-party labs.

**Has Duke provided you with any support on the entrepreneurial front?**

_Shields_ : Pratt actually has a great resource in Bill Walker, who is the
Mattson Family Director of Entrepreneurial Ventures. I've actually known him
for several years, as he was one of my favorite professors in undergrad at UVA
and my mentor while I interned at his company in Charlottesville, Hemo- Sonics
LLC. We first met Bill as a team when he moved to Duke in 2016 to work with
faculty, students and staff to help create and support high-impact,
technology- based commercial ventures. Since starting his position, he has
done just that. He has an infectious level of energy that makes it both a joy
and a privilege to work with him. Bill has been enormously helpful in
providing us with guidance on critical business decisions regarding IP
strategy, investor connections and relations, and grant writing support, and
we look forward to working with him for years to come.

**In 2016, Encapsio won two grants from NC Idea and The Big Launch Challenge,
two prestigious startup competitions. What do you plan to do with the funds?**

_Kirby_ : As you just mentioned, Encapsio won a $50,000 grant from NC Idea and
another $20,000 grant from the Big Launch Challenge. We plan to mainly use the
funds on testing and getting results that meet the standard in the industry.
With the testing results ready to go, we hope to get more support from
investors and companies and launch our first product early next year. The
funds will also cover minor expenses, including things like travel and
customer outreach.

**What is your next step?**

_Kirby_ : Currently, we are lining up operations, for instance, fundraising,
supply chain, location and production capacity. With our platform technology,
we can produce a wide range of possible products. Since we only have limited
resources and funds, we would like to identify one or two products from the
market to focus on and launch. As we gradually establish our brand and start
generating revenue, we will keep developing other products along the way.
Relating to the market, we will also modify the products to better serve our
customers in later stages.

_Shields_ : As Nick mentioned, we are waiting for the testing results to come
back in a few months. Basically, the results would tell us how well our
technology performs, how willing people are to purchase our products and how
we should price the products.

**Do you have any advice for young undergraduates and graduate students who
are also interested in entrepreneurship and technology?**

_Shields_ : There is a classic saying in the field of engineering: we tend to
find a solution first and then identify the problem later. I would suggest you
go the other way around—identify the issue first and then use it as a
motivation to find solutions.

_Kirby_ : I would say that the people are definitely the most important
consideration. Make sure you are on the same level of passion and commitment
with the people on your team and genuinely enjoy working with them.

_Day_ : Embrace the chance to take risks. Duke is a unique place that provides
a safe environment for trying new things and taking risks. You can also find a
myriad of resources and lots of talented people with complementary skillsets.
Try to make the most out of the connections and resources here.

**Weiwei "Esther" Wang is a** firstyear **Pratt student interested in pursuing
degrees in mechanical engineering and history.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2017

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

