

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2017

# Trapping Light to Enhance Material Properties

May 1, 2017

Q&A with Maiken Mikkelsen, Nortel Networks Assistant Professor of Electrical
and Computer Engineering and assistant professor of physics

Recent winner of the esteemed Cottrell Scholar and Maria Goeppert Mayer
Awards, as well as a “triple crown” of Young Investigator Awards from the Air
Force, Army and Navy, Professor Maiken H. Mikkelsen uses optics to tailor
material properties to make them brighter and faster than found naturally. As
Professor Mikkelsen teaches my ECE 340: Optics and Photonics course, I had the
wonderful opportunity to ask her more about her research and experience at the
Photonics Asia conference held in China in October 2016. She is a
distinguished researcher who has received numerous accolades and has various
publications on her research in Science, Nature Photonics and Nature Physics,
to name a few. Professor Mikkelsen enjoys hiking, gardening, playing tennis
and traveling in her free time. Below is an edited transcript of the
interview.

**Q: What sparked your interest in optics and photonics?**

I was really excited about doing hands-on research where you could actually
probe nanoscale and quantum phenomena from optical experiments. I started out
looking into condensed matter and quantum information science and currently
observe delicately designed nanostructures. Optics is, to some extent, a tool
to modify the properties of materials.

**Q: What does your lab do and how do students contribute?**

During the last few years, my students and I have been structuring materials
on the nanoscale to modify the local electromagnetic environment, which makes
these materials behave in new ways. Students play a key role in all aspects of
the research, from nanofabrication, to performing the optical experiments and
presenting the results to the scientific community at conferences all over the
world. The lab uses tiny metal structures to concentrate the incoming
electromagnetic field of light to very small volumes—a research area known as
plasmonics. Placing other materials in the near field of this modified
environment causes electrons to behave completely differently. By controlling
how these electrons behave and modifying the geometry of the material, we can
gain a deeper understanding of the light-matter interactions. By combining
these techniques with our optical experiments, we’re able to show
modifications to material properties that are much stronger than have been
seen before. It’s been very exciting!

**Q: And this research is what you presented at the Photonics Asia
conference?**

Yes. With this knowledge, we can enhance the properties of materials
significantly which in the future could lead to ultra-fast and much better
LEDs, more efficient photodetectors, or more efficient solar cells and
sensors. In Beijing China, I gave an overview of this research at the leading
meeting for the photonics and optics industries in Asia, as well as at several
other conferences and universities. It was very fulfilling to see how research
I do in a dark lab actually gets noticed around the world and it is always
deeply inspiring to learn about recent research breakthroughs from other
research groups.

**Q: What is the main purpose of trying to find these improved materials?**

I am motivated by furthering our fundamental understanding, such as how do
light and matter interact when we get to really small scales and how can this
interaction be leveraged to achieve useful properties. I believe you often
achieve the biggest technological breakthroughs when you’re not trying to
solve one particular problem, but creating new materials that could lay the
groundwork for a wide range of new technologies. For example, semiconductor
materials, with a set of properties that are found naturally, are the
cornerstone of most modern technologies. But if you imagine that you now have
an entirely new set of building blocks with tailored properties instead, they
could revolutionize a lot of different technologies down the road.

By improving or completely changing the fabrication technique of these light-
matter interactions, new properties begin to emerge. Generally, there’s always
a big desire for having something that’s lighter, smaller, more efficient and
more flexible. One of the applications we’re targeting with this research is
ultrafast LEDs. While future devices might not use this exact approach, the
underlying physics will be crucial.

About a year ago, Facebook contacted me andwere interested in utilizing our
research for detectors that could be ultrafast and detect signals from a wide
range of incidence angles. This has led to a fruitful collaboration and is one
example of how fundamental research can have applications in a wide range of
areas—some that you may not even have imagined when you started!

**Q: You won the Cottrell Scholar Award and the 2017 Maria Goeppert Mayer
Award earlier this year! Congratulations! Do you think these awards changed
your life, and if so, in what ways?**

Receiving the Maria Mayer award was a great honor; it is given to only one
early-career physicist a year in the entire world, so I was thrilled when I
received that. It was also very nice to get emails from all of my old
colleagues and friends congratulating me when they received the notice from
the American Physical Societies listservs.

The Cottrell Scholar Award of $100,000 is given to several young physics and
chemistry faculty to support both research and educational activities. The
scholarship gives winners the full academic freedom to explore and pursue
whatever they find interesting and also creates a community with young
professors in physics and chemistry across the country to explore and exchange
ideas for innovative teaching techniques.

**Q: What would be your advice to young researchers still trying to decide a
career path for themselves or those interested in optics and photonics?**

What really helped me was starting to do undergraduate research. I listened to
talks by different faculty, asked them to do undergraduate research, and
worked on a volunteer basis in their labs. I think that’s really a great way
to see if you’re interested in research—use the amazing opportunities both at
Duke and around the country. Doing research requires a lot of patience, but I
think no two days are the same; there’s always a lot of creativity involved
while troubleshooting new problems. After all, if it was easy or if we knew
how to do it, it would have already been done. But it hasn’t, so we have to
figure it out—I think that is a lot of fun. Doing internships in optics and
photonics companies is also another option to learn more about research and
development in the industry. Get as many experiences as possible and give
things a chance!

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2017

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

