

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2017

# Engineering the Toilet

May 11, 2017

Duke takes on the modern sanitation crisis

Toilet technology has been stigmatized by American culture for decades, but
not at Duke. Materials scientist Jeffrey T. Glass, professor of electrical and
computer engineering, and Brian Stoner, Research Triangle Institute (RTI)
distinguished research fellow and Duke adjunct professor, are spearheading a
project as part of the Reinvent the Toilet Challenge, sponsored by the Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation to develop sustainable sanitation solutions for the
2.5 billion people around the world who don’t have access to safe, affordable
sanitation. The research grant from the Gates Foundation focuses on the
installation and testing of these toilet prototypes in India and South Africa.

Professor Glass first became involved in toilet technology through Dr. Stoner,
who needed a long-term research partner with expertise in one of the many
components of the project.

## Toilet Technology: Fine Details

Their toilet technology concept uses a drying process through a combination of
mechanical, solar and thermal energy to separate liquids and convert the solid
waste into a combustible fuel. Solar energy, natural drafts and heat assist in
the drying process. The heat energy captured from burning the solid waste is
then converted to electricity to power the liquid treatment functions. As for
the liquid waste, electrochemical processes help disinfect the waste,
returning water that is suitable for rinsing or fertilizer.

Professor Glass and RTI are currently collaborating with Duke’s own Marc A.
Deshusses, professor of civil and environmental engineering, as well as a team
at Colorado State University that is focusing primarily on the combustion of
solid waste processes. Since the project’s launch in 2010, its timeline has
advanced faster than initially expected thanks to an “acceleration grant” from
the Gates Foundation to further its progress.

The project is currently testing its beta prototype, which is installed at the
Center for Environmental Planning and Technology (CEPT) University in
Ahmedabad, India, and Duke’s team of researchers are still doing work on
liquid disinfection to make the toilet’s chemical processes more efficient.

According to Professor Glass, such technology could make a major difference in
the communities it is intended to serve. Poor sanitation efforts in many
communities have the greatest impact on water supply, leaving thousands
exposed to pathogens in the water that present looming physical and economic
risks.

“Hospital stays, lost time at school, and an impact on the economy due to lost
work and school are three key metrics of the global health crisis caused by
unsanitary water,” said Professor Glass. “If we can separate this interaction
[between fecal matter and water], we can eliminate these issues.”

## Toilets as a Cultural Construct

Implementing a new toilet technology takes more than just constructing a
toilet in the slums. Rather, researchers have to consider a “user-centric”
design, which is tailored to fit the specific cultural geography of where it
is being implemented. Cultural differences and perceptions of the toilet and
human defecation as a biological process create a geography for researchers to
consider when implementing a new technology and assessing its success in the
new community. Given the complexity of the global sanitation crisis, a single
approach is impractical,” said Dr. Stoner. “It requires a multidisciplinary
approach that develops a suite of options to address the engineering
challenges in

Given the complexity of the global sanitation crisis, a single approach is
impractical,” said Dr. Stoner. “It requires a multidisciplinary approach that
develops a suite of options to address the engineering challenges in context
of diverse social, economic and political landscapes.

As this project continues to develop and be deployed, it will surely impact
the lives of millions in all walks of life and further advance the human
condition. n Rachael Lau is a first-year Pratt student hoping to double major
in biomedical and electrical engineering, with a minor in German studies.

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2017

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

