

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Engineering Management Course Descriptions—Campus Program

## Core Courses

### 510: Marketing

This course examines core concepts in marketing and marketing-oriented
management. It develops competence in the use of modern marketing techniques
and their application in the design, development, and commercialization of new
products and services in rapidly changing markets. The class combines lectures
and cases, many of which focus on technology-based products and services.
Students learn the frameworks for analyzing market opportunities and product
potential. Other topics include consumer behavior, product management, pricing
strategies, direct and online selling, branding, channel management, and
promotions.

3 credits.

  * **Offered** : Fall Semester

### 520: Intellectual Property, Business Law, and Entrepreneurship

Intellectual Property, Business Law, and Entrepreneurship provide students
with the legal and fundamentals to protect their business ventures and
intellectual property. The course is divided into three modules. The first
module focuses on the implication of decisions made at the formation of
business ventures. The second module focuses on the patent process in which
students write their own patents. The third module focuses on the strengths
and weaknesses of patents, copyrights, and trade secrets. Other topics include
principle-agent relations, governance of small companies, mergers and
acquisitions, contract law, patents in foreign countries, and corporate take-
overs.

3 credits.

  * **Offered** : Spring Semester

### 530: Finance in High-Tech Industries

Review basic concepts of financial accounting and finance, with an emphasis on
accounting needed for effective financial analysis. Focus on issues of finance
in high-tech industries. Emphases will include project financing, notions of
options as applied to internal financial analysis, allocation of costs and
revenues for new high tech projects, valuing projects and valuing firms when
intellectual assets are a significant portion of total level value; corporate
control in high tech firms. Finance issues in mergers, acquisitions, and
alliances.

3 credits.

  * **Offered** : Fall Semester

### 540: Management of High-Tech Industries

The purpose of this course is to empower students to become collaborative,
ethical leaders in the globalized, 21st-century workplace. Students learn
concepts and practice skills that will enable them to transition from being an
engineering sole contributor to managing and leading others as a business
professional. Students gain a sound understanding of management and
leadership; increase awareness of their own management and leadership styles;
build and practice competencies essential for team success (e.g., effective
communication, collaboration, conflict resolution); and become ethical leaders
above reproach. Emphasis is on leading teams in a volatile, complex and
interdependent world.

3 credits.

  * **Offered** : Fall and Spring Semesters

## Other Required Courses

### 501: Engineering Management Seminar

Current topics in applied engineering management and entrepreneurship. Weekly
seminar and workshop series.

Credit/No Credit.

  * More about the seminar and workshop series »

  * **Offered** : Fall and Spring Semester

### 550: Engineering Management Internship

A three-credit internship which requires participation with a cooperating
organization, whether local or distant, involving a well-defined set of tasks.
Full-time employment in an appropriate capacity may be utilized for this
internship.

3 credits.

  * This course is a required co or prerequisite for Engineering Management
    551.

  * More about internship requirements »

  * **Prerequisites:** Enrollment in the Master of Engineering Management
    Program.

  * **Offered** : Fall, Spring, and Summer

### 551: Engineering Management Internship Assessment

This course involves the assessment of a student's internship experience via a
report and oral presentation. The questions and general format of the report
and presentation will be provided by the instructor. The report and
presentation will be evaluated by the instructor and both must be approved to
obtain credit for this course.

3 credits.

  * Students must have completed or be simultaneously enrolled in Engineering
    Management 550 which is a course designated for the internship experience.

  * More about internship requirements »

  * **Prerequisites:** Enrollment in the Master of Engineering Management
    Program.

  * **Offered** : Fall, Spring, and Summer

## Electives

Please note: 590 courses are pilot courses and are offered on rotational
basis.

See elective tracks »

### 512: Product Management in High-Tech Companies

In today's international high-tech business environment, the Product Manager
is considered the CEO of their company's particular product or service.
Central to creating customer value are a firm's product innovations and its
portfolio of products and services. It is essential that the Product Manager
understands the need to identify and develop strategies that capitalize on the
firm's unique capabilities and provide value to the customer.

In this course, we will explore the entire product management challenge in a
way that goes beyond the typical MBA product marketing and brand management
course with an emphasis on managing products & services in a high-tech
environment. We believe that it is essential that our graduates understand all
elements of product management including problem identification, market
opportunity analysis, customer needs analysis, product strategy development,
technology & product road mapping, product development, competitive analysis,
product sales & marketing, brand management, financial management, and product
life cycle management. The course places emphasis on developing specific
strategies to support new and existing products and to help develop and manage
a portfolio of products and services. This engineering management elective
will provide an in-depth exposure to the analyses, decisions, and
implementation issues relevant to a typical product manager in a high-tech
company and help prepare you for your first industry product management
opportunity. A successful product manager needs a broad set of skills and this
course is the first step in helping you develop those skills. Your new skills
will be developed using a mix of individual and team-based assignments, case
analysis and presentations, computer simulations and projects.

By the end of this course, you should be able to:

  * Perform a wide range of analyses involved in managing products and
    services
  * Understand the essential elements of product management in a high-tech
    environment
  * Develop product plans, product strategies, and supporting tactical plans
  * Propose and justify marketing plans for a specific product or service
  * Understand the interface challenges between the marketing, sales,
    engineering, operations and management teams
  * Develop a strong understanding of the issues central to product management
  * Present coherent, concise analysis of business cases

3 credits.

  * **Offered** : Fall and Spring Semesters

### 513: Managing Product Development (Previously a 590.XX Course)

How do companies ensure innovative ideas are transformed into a product or
service? Irrespective of their size, location, number of employees, revenue
margin, or industry segment, all companies transform their innovative
strategies into real-world products/services. Some companies have well-defined
transformation steps that they call product/service development process;
others simply just do whatever it takes without organized planning. But in
general, they all go through major iterative phases such as discovery,
definition, development, demonstration, qualification, deployment, and life
cycle management. Furthermore, there are factors that impact all these phases
such as the source of funding, people relations, supply chain,
design/development tools, time constraints, internal/external regulations,
etc. Adequate management of these factors enables the development process to
be executed on time and on a budget in order to meet customer needs and
stakeholders' expectations. This course intends to provide an understanding of
the product/ service/development process elements and the factors influencing
the execution of the process.

3 credits.

  * **Offered** : Spring Semester

### 514: Negotiations and Consultative Selling in Technology

Success in business is dependent upon the ability to positively communicate
with and influence others to accomplish a goal. To paraphrase a famous quote
by Thomas Watson of IBM on this topic, nothing happens in business until a
negotiation is successfully completed or a sale is made. Whether we realize it
or not, we are all negotiating or selling in many aspects of our lives. From
making a decision that affects internal operations within our company,
presenting a proposal to our boss, or closing a sale with a major client, it
is important to have a suite of skills that allow us to achieve our
objectives. This course covers these two primary areas of influence and
communication within a business—negotiations and consultative selling (working
collaboratively with others to effectively meet the needs of a target
customer). These are both highly dynamic areas of personal impact that focus
on one's abilities to understand a situation and then construct the
negotiation or sales process most needed for success in value creation and
goal attainment. This course covers the structured processes, theoretical
constructs, and practical applications that lead to success in both these
areas. The course also explores ethical considerations in both disciplines.

3 credits.

  * **Offered** : Fall and Spring semesters

### 532: Advanced Corporate Finance for Technology-Based Companies

The focus of this course will be on major financial decisions of established
technology corporations as well as entrepreneurial ventures. Analytical models
and theories will be covered via problems and cases. Specific areas will
include asset management, short-term and long-term borrowing, advanced capital
budgeting strategies, determination of capital structure, dividend policy,
international issues, and mergers and other forms of restructuring.

3 credits.

  * **Prerequisites:** Enrollment in the Duke Master of Engineering Management
    Program
  * **Offered:** Spring Semester

### 534: Quantitative Financial Analysis for Technology-Driven Investment
Decisions

A beginner's introduction to the most important concepts used in quantitative
finance. Students will learn to build practical financial models using MS
Excel spreadsheets, and no prior knowledge of finance or of MS Excel is
assumed. Investment banks, hedge funds, and money managers make buy and sell
decisions based on computational models. Computers can and do execute buy and
sell orders in a completely automated fashion based on pre-programmed
parameters. This course starts with the most basic, and most important,
portfolio and investment models used to evaluate risk and identify profit
opportunities. Using Excel, students will learn how to build these models
themselves, and to understand the decision-making inputs used by professional
investors. The course has a practical focus: How to analyze prices of stocks,
bonds, options and other financial instruments using the types of
computationally sophisticated tools in wide use today. _Prior to Fall 2020,
this course was listed as "Computational Finance."_

3 credits.

  * **Offered** : Fall Semester

### 542: Competitive Strategy in Technology-Based Industries

Why do some ideas succeed in the marketplace, and others fail? The answer
often boils down to strategy. This course is designed to teach the elements of
competitive strategy with a focus on the special considerations of technology-
based companies, with particular emphasis on innovation and entrepreneurial
activities in ventures of all sizes. Students will gain an appreciation for
the strategic considerations that affect the success of technology-based
products in the marketplace through systematic exposure to key concepts in
analysis, formulation, and execution of strategic options. The course is
structured along the lines that a company or organization would likely follow
in the development of a competitive strategy.

3 credits.

  * **Offered** : Fall and Spring Semesters

### 556: Engineering Management Practicum

A practicum provides a real-life view of challenges faced by organizations.
Projects at the intersection of engineering and business are chosen. Students
work in teams and will conduct a mentored, semester-long project for an
organization.

The learning objectives of this course include:

  1. Learn how engineering and technology impact organizations and how they are integrated into an organization to achieve desired results
  2. Understand, through an experiential environment, how organizations function and the difference between theory and implementation in an organizational setting; and
  3. Develop team-based skills in an applied environment and learn how to communicate technical issues to a variety of personnel in an organization.

Practicum topics are announced during the first week of classes and students
must apply to be in the courses, with multiple sections covering various
projects each semester.

  * More about Duke practicums »

3 credits.

  * **Offered:** Fall and Spring Semesters

### 560: Project Management

Projects are one of the key mechanisms for achieving organizational goals and
implementing change, whether it is the design and launch of a new product, the
construction of a new building, or the development of a new information
system. This course will focus on defining project scope, developing project
plans, managing project execution, validating project performance and ensuring
project control. Additional topics covered include decision making, project
finance, project portfolio selection, and risk management.

3 credits.

  * **Offered** : Fall and Spring Semesters

### 562: Operations Management

Operations management involves planning and controlling the processes used to
produce the goods and services provided by an organization. In essence, it is
the management of all activities related to doing the actual work of the
organization. Managing these processes can be quite challenging—they are often
very complex and can involve large numbers of people and facilities, huge
volumes of materials and great distances.

Objectives of the course are to:

  1. Introduce students to the functional area of operations and increase their awareness of how a firm's operations interface with the other functional areas of the organization
  2. Familiarize students with the various issues and problems that traditionally arise in the management of operations within both manufacturing and service organizations
  3. Acquaint students with some of the terminology, modeling, and methodologies that often arise in the handling and resolution of operations issues and problems.

3 credits.

  * **Offered** : Fall Semester

### 563: Supply Chain Management

A firm's supply chain encompasses all of those processes involving the design,
manufacturing, and delivery of a product to end-customers. In the last 20
years, a combination of industry innovation, new technologies, and academic
research has led to substantial growth in our knowledge and in our ability to
manage supply chains. Companies in many sectors have realized both the
synergies and the efficiencies that can be gained from solving supply chain
problems, and have realized the competitive edge that effective supply chain
management provides.

The objectives of this course are two-fold:

  1. To develop conceptual and modeling skills, and to provide practical problem-solving tools, applicable to the design and analysis of supply chains
  2. Identify how the existence of multiple (distinct) decision-makers in the supply chain can create misaligned incentives that harm supply chain performance, and then understand alternative contract structures and other responses that can help mitigate this effect

3 credits.

  * **Offered** : Spring Semester

### 572: Innovation Management in Technology-Based Organizations

This course will take students through a variety of issues related to managing
technology and innovation in the context of a technology-based organization.
It is about managing know-how and innovation processes as well as creating an
organizational culture that fosters and supports innovation. We will study
best practices and benchmarks to help students develop their intuition for
managing innovation given each unique situation, including; the organization's
culture, and strategy, the employee's strengths/weaknesses, etc. Learning
objectives include:

  * Understanding the different processes that affect innovation in a
    technology-based firm
  * How to create a culture of innovation in an organization
  * The critical role of champions and
  * Key concepts of innovation strategy

3 credits.

  * **Offered** : Typically Spring Semester; offered Fall 2022

### 574: Commercializing Technology Innovations: Turning Visions into Value

This course is designed to demystify and unify the journey from idea creation
to value extraction through the use of concrete tools and real-world
exercises. Innovations have many sources (for example, individuals, companies,
universities, governments) and many vehicles for commercialization (for
example, licensing, new products, enhanced products, and new ventures).
Through this course, students will learn to think more broadly about
innovation and commercialization options and strategies.

3 credits.

  * **Offered** : Fall Semester

### 575: Software Quality Management

This class will introduce students to five different business personas that
play a key role in the software development lifecycle. These are customer,
software engineer, software release/quality manager, customer support
engineer, and general manager. The students will better appreciate the
perspectives that each of these personas brings to their role and how that
affects the "delivered" quality that customers actually experience. The course
will also help students understand how to assess customer business outcomes,
expectations and measure customer experience. Finally, the class will provide
exposure to current industry practices and include guest speakers who can give
real-world examples relevant to software quality management.

3 credits.

  * **Offered** : Fall Semester

### 576: Design Thinking and Innovation

The success of established companies and entrepreneurial ventures depends upon
their ability to identify customer needs and then develop products and
services that meet these needs in an affordable and effective manner. A
disciplined design thinking process leads to successful innovations,
particularly with regard to value creation and market impact. Starting with an
understanding of empathy, ethnography, and interviewing techniques, moving on
to the iterative process of defining, ideating, prototyping, and testing, and
then developing final designs, this course is a highly engaging opportunity
for students to develop a deep set of skills in design thinking and innovation
and includes current approaches such as agile development, biodesign, and lean
startup.

3 credits.

  * **Offered** : Fall and Spring Semesters

### 578: Designing Customer Experiences in Technology

In a rapidly changing and competitive global market, businesses must address
complex cross-discipline questions such as "how do I successfully distinguish
my business from competitors?" to remain relevant. Increasingly, the quality
of a business' “user experience" offerings provide the key to securing loyal
customer relationships and sustainable market differentiation. Companies such
as Apple, Starbucks and Amazon understand that compelling customer experience
is contained not only in the physical products they create but also in a
system of complementary interactions and services. Effective customer
experiences are not created by chance - they are designed. This endeavor
requires systematic observation, evaluation, visualization, planning,
prototyping and principled iteration to be successful. In this course,
students are introduced to foundational design techniques and use case study
discussions, readings, and hands-on projects to form an action framework and
‘personal toolkit’ for designing compelling customer experiences. In addition,
students flesh out this framework through project-based assignments and
presentations applying the principles of design thinking, human factors,
design for usability, and interaction design to analyze, create, and present
effective customer experience solutions.

3 Credits

  * **Offered** : Fall Semester

### 579: Using Real-Time Data to Improve Customer Quality Experience

Telemetry is the remote collection of data that is collected and analyzed to
turn data into actional insights. For software quality, telemetry is important
for its use to drive continuous improvements in product quality and customer
experience. The real-time nature of the data and the advent of machine-
learning algorithms have set the stage for a new era of adaptive customer
experience. Telemetry is a by-product of today’s technology trends like
digitization and the Internet of Things, and the class will cover the concepts
behind these trends as they affect the global economy and drive changes in
customer expectations, value delivery and business modes across industries.
Leveraging telemetry requires a solid foundation on data. Therefore, this
class will provide a strong understanding of basic concepts such as data
structures, database types, big data, data quality, and data security.

3 credits.

  * **Offered** : Spring Semester

### 580: Decision Models

Successful management requires the ability to recognize a decision situation,
understand its essential features, and make a choice. However, many of these
situations—particularly those involving uncertainty and/or complex
interactions - may be too difficult to grasp intuitively, and the stakes may
be too high to learn by experience. This course introduces spreadsheet
modeling, simulation, decision analysis, and optimization to represent and
analyze such complex problems. The skills learned in this course are
applicable in almost all aspects of business and should be helpful in future
courses.

3 credits.

  * **Offered:** Fall and Spring Semesters

### 585: Fundamentals of Data Science in Engineering Management

In this course, students will first learn the fundamentals of data science,
including core technical vocabulary and mathematical concepts, through
lectures and class discussions. This will include topics such as:

  1. Probability through Bayesian inverse probability and maximum likelihood for parameter estimation
  2. Binary classification, the ROC Curve and Area Under the Curve, the confusion matrix and choice of proper metrics for evaluating and optimizing classifier performance
  3. Linear regression for forecasting, separating signal from Gaussian noise
  4. Information measures used in data science, including mutual information, relative entropy (KL divergence), and log loss (cross-entropy)
  5. Experimental design, p-values and power calculations
  6. The distinct roles of training and test data, using Hoeffding's inequality to forecast error rates on out-of-sample data

Students will have the opportunity to apply the above concepts to real-world
data while developing their own models for probabilistic forecasting.

3 credits.

  * **Offered** : Fall Semester

### 586: New Opportunities in Big Data *(Currently Inactive)

This course is intended for students who have a strong interest in the IT
infrastructure of Big Data.

Topics covered include:

  1. Advanced data-mining methods now possible in business and research
  2. Introduction to software for data-visualization and pattern recognition in Big Data
  3. Information Architecture of the Big Data Cloud—Introduction to the latest technologies for distributed data storage, indexing, search, retrieval, and analysis

Limited to a maximum of 20 students.

3 credits.

  * **Prerequisites:** 585: Fundamentals of Data Science, or with prior
    approval of the instructor
  * **Offered** : Spring Semester

### 587: Data Visualization for Engineering Managers

This course teaches how to use data visualizations to improve communication.
We will learn best practices for presenting the kind of discoveries and “calls
to action” that are the primary aims of business data analysis. Everyone who
completes the course will be able to make beautiful and effective data
visualizations.

We will begin by learning about human visual perception, in particular, the
science of how the choice of color, form and other design elements can assist
in pre-attentive information processing. We will consider the origins of
modern data visualization in the pre-computer age, starting with the use of
overlay maps, and Galton’s Quincunx and Correlation Diagram.

We will learn to recognize the 60 or so most commonly utilized types of data-
visualization metaphor, as well as rules of thumb for which are the most
appropriate and effective to apply to different types of data analysis.

Students will learn to create their own visualizations using publicly
available data and free software tools. Students are not required or expected
to have any prior software experience. The course has no prerequisites.

3 credits.

  * **Offered** : Spring Semester

### 588: Machine Learning Principles and Applications for Engineering Managers

This course focuses on understanding how machine learning (ML) works, and case
studies of its successful application to a wide range of problem types, from
better forecasting customer behavior to playing Go, to responding
appropriately to human speech. Students will learn the basic mathematical
principles behind establishing reliable ML performance and have an opportunity
to experiment with various ML algorithms and observe how they perform on real-
world data. The course does not require any prior programming experience.

3 credits.

  * **Offered** : Spring Semester

### 590.XX: Managing Product Design

_Managing Product Design: Concept to Realization_ is an opportunity for
students to gain practical experience creating a business and managing a
design team that produces a real product under realistic cost, schedule, and
performance constraints. Students will form a semester-long “company” that
will create coherent business and technical strategies, and design, build, and
demonstrate a functional product prototype. Teams will be assisted by managing
external technical resources and receiving feedback and guidance from an
advisory board.  
_Objectives:_ Provide students “a real-life as possible” end-to-end product
design and development management experience with responsibilities in business
operations and technical management, spanning conceptual design to detailed
design, delivery, and presentation; Opportunity to gain realistic experience
building a tangible and functional software and electro-mechanical consumer
product under market, technical, schedule, and budgetary constraints; Offer
project-based experience directly managing designers and other technical
specialists; and Provide students with direct experience in considering and
managing “Design-for-X” (DfX) tradeoffs including, cost, manufacturability,
repair/reuse, and environmental factors.

3 credits.

  * **Offered** : Fall and Spring Semesters

### 590.XX: Software Engineering Management

Students learn the application of a systematic, disciplined approach to the
development, operation, and maintenance of software using the Agile manifesto
principles. Software engineering management is the discipline that provides
knowledge, tools, and methods for managing the software requirements,
performing software design, development, test, and maintenance tasks. At the
end of this course, students will be able to: Understand the software
development life cycle (SDLC), Discern the different methods to manage the
SDLC such as: Waterfall, Agile & DevOps, Software Development personas and
tips for successful team management, Software Product definitions, Agile
Software Development methods with focus: Scrum & Kanban, Build and manage an
Agile Software release plan, Use DevOps code life cycle tool for code &
version management, Incorporate a release plan within the Scaled Agile
Framework (SAFE), and software solution metrics & risks. Understanding
software management concepts will allow students to be ready to take on
responsibilities such as software development team management, project
management, Agile development team management, Software Product Manager, or
other related job roles in the Information Technology industry. Most
importantly, it will provide them with the basis for future senior executive
management roles such as CIO, CTO given the critical thinking and decision-
making skills in a technology-based setting learned in class.

3 credits.

  * **Offered** : Fall Semester

### 590.XX: Digital Transformation

This course will introduce students to a number of topics related to the use
of digital technology to drive change and adapt nimbly in enterprise. Students
will first examine the primary challenges associated with driving change
within organizations and analyze how best-in-class organizations successfully
manage change to transform their organizations. Students will explore the role
that digital technology is playing in accelerating the need for dynamic and
perpetual organization transformation and analyze how best-in-class
organizations are successfully leveraging digital technology to transform
their enterprise. Finally, students will investigate how the emergence of the
low/no code (Citizen Developer) model will become a foundation upon which
enterprise agility can be built and analyze how this new software development
paradigm will enable hyper-agility within the digital enterprise.

3 credits.

  * **Offered** : Fall and Spring Semesters

### 590.XX: Digital Marketing with Machine Learning

Digital Marketing with Machine Learning is organized around the core concepts
of LTV (customer Lifetime Value) and CAC (Customer Acquisition Cost). We will
learn how to track and quantify the customer journey from initial contact to
first sale, including best practices for calculating bounce rates, conversion
rates, LTV and CAC. We will get hands-on experience with the kinds of
experiments, including A/B testing, that digital markers use to minimize CAC,
and the role of marketing in maximizing subsequent retention rates and LTV. We
will evaluate the costs and benefits of each of the currently most-important
digital marketing channels: Content Marketing, Digital Advertising,
Sponsorships, Search and Email. We will give special attention to the dramatic
recent rise in social media and influencer marketing, as well as to the
related roles of engagement and organic search in reducing CAC. We will
examine the design decisions needed, and the role of testing and customer
interviews, in finding product-market fit for a new digital brand or product.
Finally, we will look at how advances in Machine Learning and Artificial
Intelligence are being applied to digital marketing optimization, and
extrapolate trends for the future of the industry. This course requires no
coding; quantitative assignments can be done in Microsoft Excel. No
Prerequisites.

3 credits.

  * **Offered** : Fall and Spring Semesters

### 590.XX: Energy Transitions

Energy generation and use by global industries, governments and society
involves complex, frequently competing goals involving economic growth and
environmental stewardship. Industry and organizations need brave & smart
energy engineers with key skills to achieve complex energy transition &
decarbonization strategies. Critically thinking about these challenges and
solving them requires solid: engineering, economic, and environmental science
skills. We will call these the “3Es”. This Energy Transition course focuses on
teaching students practical career skills in fossil fuel asset
decarbonization, carbon-capture utilization & storage (CCUS) solutions and
renewable energy technologies (wind, solar, hydro, nuclear, hydrogen, biomass
& geothermal). The course begins by reviewing applicable energy aspects with a
3Es analysis framework of: Engineering (thermodynamics, mass balance, energy
conversion, etc) Economics principles (macroeconomics, financial valuation,
etc.), Environmental considerations (emissions, regulations, incentives,
etc.). This course broadly reviews 3E fundamentals that most students likely
have seen in undergraduate engineering, economics or environmental courses.

Although the course requires strong analytical abilities, it purposefully
focuses on pragmatic applications of theory and industry problem solving
techniques that integrate engineering, economics and environmental principles
versus in-depth theoretical problems typical in advanced core classes. As an
example, most students have studied energy & mass conservation laws in high
school or undergraduate physics courses, however, students may not be as clear
about how to apply these to the real world problems in the energy industry.
The Energy Transitions technical elective is appropriate for graduate students
from MEMP Dept, other Pratt departments or Nicholas School departments who are
interested in energy related careers as project/product managers, systems
engineers or technical consultants.

3 credits.

  * **Prerequisites:** No prerequisites are required beyond being an enrolled
    graduate student in: the Masters of Engineering Management Program,
    another Pratt Engineering Department or the Nicholas School of the
    Environment. 3Es energy concepts are reviewed in the early part of this
    course. However, given the technical aspects of Energy
    Transition/Decarbonization, previous exposure to typical undergraduate
    courses in physics/chemistry, environmental science or economic principles
    is helpful.
  * **Offered** : Fall and Spring Semesters

### 590.XX: Sustainable Products for Green Energy Transition(s)

This new course offering teaches students how products are designed to ensure
that energy transitions for existing and new products can be managed properly
and effectively while providing sustainability and profitability for worldwide
consumption. This methodology is useful in order to reach the goals
established by the WHO (World Health Organization) and supported by the WTO
(World Trade Organization) as well as by most country centric governments.
Students will also be introduced to environmental, social, and governance
(ESG) initiatives plus use of carbon credits for driving the next revolution
in products for introduction into retail and wholesale markets. This course
will provide the student with the **_extraordinary ability_** to more fully
understand all aspects of sustainably-focused technologies to create products
that meet new and existing governmental policies. Teams from the class (and
perhaps several teams) **_may enter the MEMP GCI EXECUTIVE CHALLENGE March
2023 with a distinct advantage by taking this course_**. The focus of the
course will be to provide students with critical thinking skills and the
grading will be based upon HW assignments plus a semester long project
involving development of products for technology sectors matching the
students’ interests.

Although this is a new course offering tailored for the **MEMP
ENERGY/ENVIRONMENT TRANSITION TRACK** , Professor Grune has been teaching in
the department since 2005 with a focus on IP and specifically Intellectual
Asset Management – how to value Intellectual Property. Professor Grune is a
PhD Chemical Engineer with both a undergraduate chemistry and mechanical
engineering degree from Duke University (AB Chemistry and BSME). His
industrial experience and background include developing the first US based
Life Cycle Assessment and ISO 14000 certification for Asea Braun Boveri (ABB)
in the early 1990s along with 13 years at IBM-RTP and more than 30 years in
product development. He is also a registered US patent agent.

3 credits.

  * **Offered** : Fall Semester

### 590.XX: Challenges and Strategies for the Design Thinker and Innovator

Some designs withstand the test of time and survive for hundreds or even
thousands of years. Others receive huge up-front investments—hundreds of
millions or even billions of dollars—only to fantastically fail, serving as
spectacles of technology gone awry. Still other designs resonate in the
marketplace to such extent that they become household names, critical to the
continued success of major companies and commanding huge ongoing costs to
develop their next generations. Many designs embody a target life span, and
predictably fail over time. Design team leaders confront a dizzying array of
priorities, many dictated by industry standards as well as legal requirements
that protect health, safety, and even civil rights. Through case studies and
primary sources, this course explores the multifaceted challenges that
confront design thinkers and innovators as well as strategies for managers and
their teams to support the pursuit of excellence in the design process.

3 credits.

  * **Offered** : Fall Semester

### 590.XX: Software Business Management

In today’s world, software is pervasive in most if not all companies. Software
business is a commercial activity aimed at producing, buying, and selling
software products or services. Well-run software companies are known for their
high profit margins. This course will focus on understanding the key success
factors for software organizations to drive their portfolio strategy by
mapping out monetization models, pricing, vendor management, professional
services, development & continuous delivery, road mapping & maintenance.

3 credits.

  * **Offered** : Spring Semester

### 591: Independent Study

Students may set up an independent study for a topic of their choosing. It is
the responsibility of the student to find a professor that is willing to lead
the independent study. Some popular independent studies in the past have
included Global Engineering Education, the Duke Smart Home, Duke Virtual
Reality, and technology assessment with the Research Triangle Institute.

3 credits.

  * **Offered** : Fall and Spring Semesters

## Other Duke Courses

Browse Duke's official schedule of courses »

## On-Campus

  * Duke MEM On-Campus
  * Curriculum
  * Elective Tracks
  * Course Descriptions
  * Flexible Degree Options
  * Student Services and Support
  * Career Outcomes
  * Meet Our Alumni
  * Tuition and Financial Aid

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

