

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Elective Tracks

Customize your degree to match your career goals

Through our elective tracks, Duke Engineering Management students in our
campus program select courses that support the job roles and career goals they
have in mind.

The elective tracks help guide those choices by grouping courses by the skills
needed to prepare you for your potential job role.

### Customer Experience and Product Design

Create or improve products that exceed customer expectations and increase
satisfaction, loyalty, and advocacy

#### Potential Job Roles  

_Dependent upon experience_

  * Customer Experience Data Analyst
  * Customer Success Analyst
  * Quality Engineer
  * Software Engineer

#### Course Offerings

  * EGRMGMT 542: Competitive Strategy in Technology-Based Industries
  * EGRMGMT 556: Consulting or Industrial Practicum
  * EGRMGMT 560: Project Management
  * EGRMGMT 575: Software Quality Management
  * EGRMGMT 576: Design Thinking and Innovation
  * EGRMGMT 578: Designing Customer Experiences in Technology
  * EGRMGMT 579: Using Real-Time Data to Improve Customer Quality Experience
  * EGRMGMT 587: Data Visualization for Engineering Managers
  * EGRMGMT 590.XX: Managing Product Design

Course descriptions »

### Data Analytics and Machine Learning

Prepare for a role using data science to improve, accelerate and transform—or
even disrupt—an industry

#### Potential Job Roles

_Dependent upon experience_

  * Business Intelligence Analyst
  * Financial Analyst
  * Data Analyst
  * Data Scientist

#### Course Offerings

  * EGRMGMT 534: Quantitative Financial Analysis for Technology-Driven
    Investment Decisions
  * EGRMGMT 556: Consulting or Industrial Practicum
  * EGRMGMT 579: Using Real-Time Data to Improve Customer Quality Experience
  * EGRMGMT 585: Fundamentals of Data Science in Engineering Management
  * EGRMGMT 586: New Opportunities in Big Data
  * EGRMGMT 587: Data Visualization for Engineering Managers
  * EGRMGMT 588: Machine Learning Principles and Applications for Engineering
    Managers
  * EGRMGMT 590.XX: Digital Marketing with Machine Learning

Course descriptions »

NOTE: In addition to the Master of Engineering Management, Duke Engineering
offers discipline-specific master's degrees focused on data analytics and
machine learning. Learn more »

### Operations and Supply Chain Management

Gain skills in designing, operating and improving the systems that create and
deliver primary products and services

#### Potential Job Roles

_Dependent upon experience_

  * Operations Data Analyst
  * Supply Chain Data Analyst
  * Associate Supply Chain Manager
  * Project Manager
  * Program Manager
  * Process Engineer
  * Industrial Engineer

#### Course Offerings

  * EGRMGMT 556: Consulting or Industrial Practicum
  * EGRMGMT 560: Project Management
  * EGRMGMT 562: Operations Management
  * EGRMGMT 563: Supply Chain Management
  * EGRMGMT 580: Decision Models

Course descriptions »

### Product Management

Prepare for a career planning, forecasting, producing, or marketing at any
stage of the product lifecycle

#### Potential Job Roles

_Dependent upon experience_

  * Associate Product Manager
  * Product Management Analyst
  * Product Development Engineer
  * Associate Offering Engineer

#### Course Offerings

  * EGRMGMT 512: Product Management in High-Tech Companies
  * EGRMGMT 514: Negotiations and Consultative Selling in Technology
  * EGRMGMT 532: Advanced Corporate Finance for Technology-Based Companies
  * EGRMGMT 542: Competitive Strategy in Technology-Based Industries
  * EGRMGMT 556: Consulting or Industrial Practicum
  * EGRMGMT 560: Project Management
  * EGRMGMT 572: Innovation Management in Technology-Based Organizations
  * EGRMGMT 574: Commercializing Technology Innovations
  * EGRMGMT 576: Design Thinking and Innovation
  * EGRMGMT 590.XX: Sustainable Products for Green Energy Transitions
  * EGRMGMT 590.XX: Managing Product Development
  * EGRMGMT 590.XX: Managing Product Design
  * EGRMGMT 590.XX: Digital Marketing with Machine Learning

Course descriptions »

### Software Management

Understand the powerful role computer software plays—and how leaders manage
teams to commercialize and maintain it

#### Skills acquired

  * Business ecosystems
  * Digital transformation
  * Software business management
  * Information technology consulting
  * Software design and architecture
  * Software development life cycle
  * Agile Software Development Frameworks
  * Requirements & change management
  * Information Technology & Enterprise Architecture
  * Business operations management and automation

#### Potential Job Roles

_Dependent upon experience_

  * Sales Engineer
  * Technical Sales
  * Software Marketing Manager
  * Software Engineering Manager
  * Software Product Manager
  * Software Development Manager
  * Software Project Manager
  * Agile Development Manager
  * Enterprise Architect
  * Release Manager/Engineer
  * Customer Support Manager/Engineer
  * IT Project Manager
  * IT Consultant
  * IT Business Strategist
  * IT Manager/Engineer

#### Course Offerings

  * EGRMGMT 575: Software Quality Management
  * EGRMGMT 588: Machine Learning Principles and Applications for Engineering
    Managers
  * EGRMGMT 590.XX: Software Engineering Management (Software Management
    Fundamentals)
  * EGRMGMT 590.XX: Software Business Management
  * EGRMGMT 590.XX: Software, Solution, and Enterprise Architecture
  * EGRMGMT 590.XX: Digital Transformation
  * FINTECH 514: Secure Software Development

Course descriptions »

### Technology Development and Commercialization

Preparation for roles that transform innovations into solutions

#### Potential Job Roles

_Dependent upon experience_

  * Business Analyst
  * Business Technology Analyst
  * Associate Consultant
  * Strategy Analyst

#### Course Offerings

  * EGRMGMT 514: Negotiations and Consultative Selling in Technology
  * EGRMGMT 532: Advanced Corporate Finance for Technology-Based Companies
  * EGRMGMT 542: Competitive Strategy in Technology-Based Industries
  * EGRMGMT 556: Consulting or Industrial Practicum
  * EGRMGMT 560: Project Management
  * EGRMGMT 572: Innovation Management in Technology-Based Organizations
  * EGRMGMT 574: Commercializing Technology Innovations
  * EGRMGMT 576: Design Thinking and Innovation

Course descriptions »

### Entrepreneurship

Start a new venture or be an intrapreneur—and bring innovative solutions to
market

#### Potential Job Roles

_Dependent upon experience_

  * Entrepreneur
  * Founder
  * Intrapreneur
  * Innovation Engineer

More about this elective track »

#### Course Offerings

  * EGRMGMT 532: Advanced Corporate Finance for Technology-Based Companies
  * EGRMGMT 542: Competitive Strategy in Technology-Based Industries
  * EGRMGMT 560: Project Management
  * EGRMGMT 572: Innovation Management in Technology-Based Organizations
  * EGRMGMT 574: Commercializing Technology Innovations
  * EGRMGMT 576: Design Thinking and Innovation

Students may choose from these courses without completing the track.

### Build Your Own

Design an elective track to fit _your_ goals

#### Engineering Discipline-Focused

Browse graduate engineering courses in:

  * Biomedical Engineering
  * Civil Engineering
  * Electrical & Computer Engineering
  * Energy and the Environment
  * Environmental Engineering
  * Materials Science
  * Mechanical Engineering
  * Nanotechnology
  * Photonics

* * *

#### Global Health

_Note: Permission is required to participate in this option._

Selected students receive priority in registering for courses. They must take
the Key Courses listed below and have the option of selecting the fourth
course in the Duke Global Health Institute, listed below under Other Notable
Courses.

See additional information on the Duke Global Health Institute website »

##### Key Courses

  * GLHLTH 701: Global Health Challenges
  * GLHLTH 750: Health Systems in Developing Countries
  * GLHLTH 755: Global Health Policy: Transforming Evidence into Action

##### Other Notable Courses

  * ENVIRON 538: Global Environment Health: Economics and Policy
  * GLHLTH 590: Introduction to Global Health
  * GLHLTH 751: Developing Implementation/Operational Research for Improving
    Health Interventions
  * GLHLTH 773: Global Injury and Injury Prevention
  * GLHLTH 774: Program Evaluation for Health

* * *

#### Independent Study

A path of your design.

  * Browse all Engineering Management courses »

* * *

#### Across Duke

  * Select business courses* at Duke's Fuqua School of Business »
  * Other Duke science and technology courses—browse the Duke course catalog »

* _Note: Fuqua School of Business offers courses on a space-available basis
with instructor consent required. Fuqua courses are in six-week terms rather
than semesters. A Master of Engineering Management student is limited to one
(1) Fuqua course per term, two per semester. Fuqua courses require a separate
registration process._

* * *

#### In the Research Triangle Region

Relevant courses at other nearby universities, including:

  * NC State University in Raleigh »
  * Another UNC campus »

Further Options

### Careers in Consulting

Many of our courses develop skills necessary for success in a career in
consulting.

Students interested in consulting should consider topic areas such as:

  * Information technology
  * Finance
  * Product development

Courses helpful in consulting include:

  * EGRMGMT 560: Project Management
  * EGRMGMT 556: Consulting or Industrial Practicum
  * STRATEGY 896: Strategic Planning Practicum

Course descriptions »

> "As a Duke Engineering Management student, I handpicked the courses that
> would be most beneficial in my chosen industry."
>
> **Aakruti Mehta '16** | Gartner Inc.

## On-Campus

  * Duke MEM On-Campus
  * Curriculum
  * Elective Tracks
  * Course Descriptions
  * Flexible Degree Options
  * Student Services and Support
  * Career Outcomes
  * Meet Our Alumni
  * Tuition and Financial Aid

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

