

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2016

# Duke AERO: Giving Lift to Students’ Careers

April 27, 2016 | Matt Tobin

Duke AERO Society helps to facilitate students’ exposure to aerospace and
aeronautical engineering projects within and outside of the university

Aerospace Engineering at Duke is a discipline that exists in something of an
academic ‘twilight zone.’ As a certificate program within the mechanical
engineering and materials science department, pursuing aerospace engineering
at Duke requires slightly more classes than a minor, though it is not
independent enough to be considered its own major. For the handful of students
from each class, then, who are interested in the field, involvement in
aerospace research is necessary to gain better familiarity with and experience
in the field.

To facilitate students’ exposure to aerospace and aeronautical engineering
projects within and outside of the university, the Duke AERO Society is a
student organization that works to connect its members to “Aviation
Engineering Research Opportunities” (hence the acronym). The group has been
involved in a variety of projects, from quadcopter constructions to weather
balloon launches to experiments on the effects of microgravity on the human
eye, with a wide range of applications in aviation, biomedical engineering,
robotics and more.

This diversity of applications has, at times, led to a lack of focus for the
group: the history of the Duke AERO Society can in some ways be viewed as an
extended identity crisis. Originally a single university branch of the
American Institute for Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA), the group divided
three years ago into an AIAA club and a “Reduced Gravity Club,” which focused
on a research project tested on NASA’s microgravity plane. Last year, though,
in order to provide the necessary support for aerospace projects, the two
groups rejoined, with the reintegration being completed this year. As one
unified entity, the society ensures that its projects will be able to enjoy
the support they need, making for an overall more active and effective
organization.

With the goal of exposing members to both hands-on and theoretical, as well as
aeronautical and aerospace research, the AERO Society is focusing this year on
two projects. First, club members are modeling different wing planforms using
3-D modeling software, and then constructing these different planforms with
balsa wood and heat shrink plastic. Students will gain hands-on experience
working with Duke’s laser cutter and possibly its wind contunnel in the
manufacturing and testing of these wings.

Additionally, club members have formed a team to join the national RASC-AL
competition, sponsored by NASA and the National Institute of Aerospace (NIA).
This team is working to engineer the entire mission architecture of a 1-G,
earth-independent space station. This ambitious endeavor involves designing
and planning for everything from mission funding to space station construction
to life-sustaining technologies on board. If selected to compete in the final
stage of the competition, the team will produce a comprehensive research paper
of their findings and plan and present it in front of a panel of industry
representatives in Florida. The organization is also planning events such as a
NASA hack-a-thon and a visit to the local General Electric Aviation assembly
plant. With this vision, it promises to be an exciting year for the Duke AERO
Society! Stay up to date on their activities at sites.duke. edu/aero.

_Matt Tobin is a junior majoring in mechanical engineering and physics. He is
also pursuing the Aerospace Certificate. He serves as president of the Duke
AERO Society._

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2016

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

