

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2016

# HackDuke: Coding for Social Good

April 27, 2016 | Joyce Choi

Hackers come from all across the nation and globe, from as far away as the
West Coast and England, to create solutions in a collaborative environment

A five-foot-long nyan cat made out of multicolored sticky notes graced the
glass windows of the engineering buildings on the e-quad— the creativity in
the air was palpable on the weekend of November 7, 2015.

HackDuke is a 24-hour coding competition with an emphasis on coding for social
good. Hackers come from all across the nation and globe, from as far away as
the West Coast and England, to create software and/or hardware solutions in a
collaborative environment on one of four tracks: Inequality, Energy & The
Environment, Health & Wellness, and Education. Students of all skill levels
work in teams of up to four on these hacks. Grand prize winners of each track
get the chance to donate to a non-profit of their choice.

Duke’s hackathon scene started in the spring of 2013 with hackBlue, a
hackathon created by students at Duke and the University of North Carolina.
HackDuke started in the fall of 2013, becoming the nation’s first
philanthropic hackathon with its emphasis on social good.

Since 2013, HackDuke has grown to have more than 3000 applications, more than
750 hackers, more than 100 projects, 24 sponsors and more than 60 mentors at
this year’s event. With such a large event, the organizing team has grown from
8 members to 30. The event is sponsored by companies such as Google, Facebook
and YikYak, and students have opportunities to connect with these companies at
the event.

When asked what makes HackDuke different from other hackathons, director of
HackDuke Jesse Hu said, “I think HackDuke does a great job of de-emphasizing
competition and prizes to foster community. It is really close to the spirit
of hacking. That sort of goes away when it’s all about prizes.”

To ensure an inclusive environment, HackDuke created a separate novice prize
track. All novices were placed in Schiciano Auditorium with mentors so that
they could have easy access to help and guidance during the entire hackathon.

The winning Inequality track team created an inventory system for foodbanks in
which users simply need to take a picture of an item to enter it into the
system. The winning Health & Wellness track team used Google Project Tango to
assist blind people in navigating their surroundings. For the Energy &
Environment track, the winning team created a tracks movement and GPS
information to bring awareness to daily decisions that negatively affect the
environment. The winning Education track team created a program that uses
speech recognition to take notes of lectures and organizes notes by keywords.

HackDuke is more than just a two-day event though. The team’s goal is to build
a hacker community at Duke. Before the hackathon, the HackDuke team worked on
HackWeek, which had various track-related speakers and programming workshops.
After the hackathon, the team is continuing on creating more programming
workshops and bringing social impact speakers. Also new this year, the team is
working on making selected projects from the hackathon into long-term projects
so that students can learn not only to prototype at the hackathon, but also
learn to maintain their code through a long-term project made for a community
nonprofit.

_Joyce Choi is a freshman double majoring in electrical and computer
engineering and computer science._

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2016

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

