

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2016

# Duke IEEE: Innovation without Bounds

April 27, 2016 | Natalie Le

Having grown tremendously in both number and expertise since their start in
2013, Duke IEEE will surely continue to impress.

## SoutheastCon

Every year, Duke’s branch of the Institute of Electronics and Electrical
Engineers (IEEE) competes against other collegiate teams in the Hardware
Competition at IEEE SoutheastCon. With its fun but relevant themes, this
competition helps students gain a better understanding of how robotics can be
applied to modern-day problems. In preparation, Duke IEEE typically splits up
into separate groups to work on different aspects of their robot, such as its
software and hardware. They later reconvene to incorporate all the components,
which allows members to cooperate with one another while developing their
knowledge in the areas they are most interested in.

In 2015, SoutheastCon took place in Fort Lauderdale, FL, and the theme was
road trips. Points were earned based on the robot’s ability to travel along a
distinctly marked path, play with an electronic children’s toy, write out
“IEEE” using an Etch-A-Sketch, rotate a row of a Rubik’s cube and carry a
single playing card to the end of the course. The robots are autonomous,
meaning that they are pre-programmed and do not have a driver to control them.
Since the robots are expected to maneuver the course entirely on their own,
most of the work occurs before the day of the competition itself.

Duke IEEE spent approximately two months building their robot. Its four-wheel
perpendicular drive system made it easier to maneuver turns, and a
photoresistor was used to detect the start signal, which was a red LED light.
Stacks, an abstract data type that executes code in reverse order (starting
from what was done last), were used to make their robot retrace its steps
after every obstacle before continuing along the course. This aspect of its
coding was extremely advantageous and set Duke IEEE apart from other teams,
which often hard-coded their robots to turn around. In these cases, if the
programming didn’t exactly match the course, then the robot could easily veer
off path.

## Mixing Drinks with Technology

One of Duke IEEE’s most popular projects was the drink mixer that they created
for the 75th anniversary of the Pratt School of Engineering. Debuted during
the 2014 Pratt Alumni Weekend, this unique mixer impressed both current and
returning Duke engineers. Constructed from clear laser-cut and frosted
acrylic, its design was sturdy yet sleek. Multicolored LEDs, programmed using
the open-source electronic prototyping platform Arduino, created a stunning
lights display that synced to whatever music was playing during the event.
Users could personalize their drinks using an Android app that would measure
and mix specific ratios of ingredients.

The drink mixer has been used for multiple occasions since its debut, such as
for the Foundry Open House and Club Fair. It has been quite successful in
garnering positive reactions, as shown by the rise in Duke IEEE’s recruitment
following these events.

Upcoming projects on Duke IEEE’s agenda include building a word clock and a
chess-playing robot and attending their annual SoutheastCon entry. The group
meets in The Foundry makerspace at Duke every Saturday to work on these
projects, plan new ones and teach skills to less-experienced members. Having
grown tremendously in both number and expertise since their start in 2013,
Duke IEEE will surely continue to impress.

_Natalie Le is a freshman planning to double major in electrical and computer
engineering and physics._

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2016

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

