Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Research

We develop efficient, precise algorithms to study and solve complex problems
governed by the laws of mechanics. This plays a fundamental role in many
important problems, such as materials design, tissue engineering, biomedical
imaging, prediction of natural events, energy exploration and use, and more.

## Research Areas

  * Computational fluid dynamics
  * Computational nonlinear poro-elasticity
  * Computation of highly nonlinear mechanical systems
  * Fluid-structure interaction
  * Flow through porous media
  * Fracture and fragmentation
  * Inverse problems and optimization
  * Multiscale approaches
  * Uncertainty quantification on complex systems

## Related Study Opportunities

    

### PhD and Master of Science (MS) in Civil Engineering

  * Both programs offer a Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing Study
    Track

### Master of Engineering (MEng)

  * In Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing is a collaboration with
    the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    at Duke
  * In Civil Engineering offers a concentration in Computational Engineering

### Undergraduate Research

  * Major in Civil Engineering and access the Structural Engineering &
    Mechanics study track

## Primary Faculty

### Fred K. Boadu

Associate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: How the engineering, environmental and petrophysical
properties of porous media (soils, fractured rock, biological tissues) affect
measurable geophysical responses, and subsequently develop methodologies by
which these properties can be obtained from non-invasive geophysical…

### Henri P. Gavin

Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Structural dynamics, earthquake engineering, seismic
hazard mitigation for building contents, nonlinear dynamics, system
identification, optimal control with application to systems with controllable
damping.

### Johann Guilleminot

Assistant Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Computational mechanics, mechanics of heterogeneous
materials, molecular dynamics simulations and atomistic-to-continuum coupling,
stochastic solvers, statistical inverse problem and model validation,
stochastic analysis, uncertainty quantification in science and engineering

### Tomasz Hueckel

Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Mechanics of materials, theoretical soil mechanics, rock
mechanics, theory of plasticity, multi-physics processes in geomechanics,
nuclear waste disposal, energy and environmental geomechanics.

### Joseph C. Nadeau

Professor of the Practice in Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Theoretical and applied mechanics, micromechanics,
composite materials, and probabilistic methods

### Guglielmo Scovazzi

Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Finite element methods, computational fluid and solid
mechanics, multiphase porous media flows, computational methods for fluid and
solid materials under extreme load conditions, turbulent flow computations,
instability phenomena.

### Manolis Veveakis

Associate Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Theoretical and applied mechanics, Geomechanics,
Irreversible Thermodynamics. Emphasis on the multiphysical modelling of
plasticity of solids, solid-fluid interactions, friction laws and rheology of
geomaterials

## Secondary Faculty

### Wilkins Aquino

Anderson-Rupp Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Computational mechanics, finite element methods,
computational inverse problems and their applications in engineering and
biomedicine, scientific computing, computational acoustics and acoustics-
structure interaction, coupled chemo-mechanics (e.g., electrochemistry-
mechanics).

### John Everett Dolbow

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Modeling quasi-static and dynamic fracture of structural
components, the evolution of interfaces with nonlinear constitutive laws, and
developing models for stimulus-responsive hydrogels

### Lawrence N. Virgin

Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Study of the behavior of nonlinear dynamical systems,
including the investigation of the fundamental nature of nonlinear systems
based on a mathematical description of their underlying equations of motion
and the application of recent results from nonlinear dynamical systems…

## Adjunct Faculty

### Lyesse Laloui

Adjunct Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

