Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Research

Duke's **Geomechanics and Geophysics for Energy and the Environment** research
group bridges the gap between geology and geophysics. It seeks to understand
and address issues related to underground engineering, the exploration of oil,
gas, methane hydrates, and more—as well as resource use and environmental
hazards.

Hazards we address include earthquakes, sinkholes, desiccation soil cracking,
material degradation, geostructure degradation, landslides and mudslides. We
use geomechanics principles to assess wellbore stability, reservoir
properties, nuclear waste geological disposal, landslide stability and
hydraulic stimulations, including hydraulic fracking.

## Research Areas

  * Chemo-mechanical couplings in geomaterials
  * Thermo-plasticity of soils and rocks
  * Long-term multi-physics aspects of resilience of geo-structures
  * Multi-physics of geological nuclear waste isolation
  * Evaporation, drying and cracking of geomaterials
  * Multi-physics aspects for friction laws
  * Stability and bifurcation of multiphysical systems
  * Computational geomechanics
  * Non-invasive geophysical characterization of earth subsurface for
    engineering, energy and environmental applications
  * Subsurface contamination and related health issues
  * Stability of earth subsurface based on percolation theory
  * Multiscale analysis of porous materials
  * Stochastic modeling of heterogeneous materials
  * Uncertainty quantification for complex systems ****

Related Study Opportunities

    

### PhD and Master of Science (MS)

  * Offer a study track in Geomechanics and Geophysics for Energy and the
    Environment study track

### Master of Engineering (MEng) in Civil Engineering

  * Offers a concentration in Geo-Systems

### Undergraduate Research

  * Major in Civil Engineering to have an authentic research experience in
    geomechanics and geophysics

## Primary Faculty

### Fred K. Boadu

Associate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: How the engineering, environmental and petrophysical
properties of porous media (soils, fractured rock, biological tissues) affect
measurable geophysical responses, and subsequently develop methodologies by
which these properties can be obtained from non-invasive geophysical…

### Laura Elizabeth Dalton

Assistant Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: 4D Imaging; Carbon sequestration in porous materials;
sustainable material development; structural integrity of carbon capture and
storage wells; reactive transport in porous materials

### Henri P. Gavin

Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Structural dynamics, earthquake engineering, seismic
hazard mitigation for building contents, nonlinear dynamics, system
identification, optimal control with application to systems with controllable
damping.

### Johann Guilleminot

Assistant Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Computational mechanics, mechanics of heterogeneous
materials, molecular dynamics simulations and atomistic-to-continuum coupling,
stochastic solvers, statistical inverse problem and model validation,
stochastic analysis, uncertainty quantification in science and engineering

### Tomasz Hueckel

Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Mechanics of materials, theoretical soil mechanics, rock
mechanics, theory of plasticity, multi-physics processes in geomechanics,
nuclear waste disposal, energy and environmental geomechanics.

### Guglielmo Scovazzi

Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Finite element methods, computational fluid and solid
mechanics, multiphase porous media flows, computational methods for fluid and
solid materials under extreme load conditions, turbulent flow computations,
instability phenomena.

### Manolis Veveakis

Associate Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Theoretical and applied mechanics, Geomechanics,
Irreversible Thermodynamics. Emphasis on the multiphysical modelling of
plasticity of solids, solid-fluid interactions, friction laws and rheology of
geomaterials

## Adjunct Faculty

### Lyesse Laloui

Adjunct Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

