Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Research

Duke environmental engineering faculty in the **Hydrology and Fluid Dynamics**
research group pursue some of the most pressing open problems in environmental
fluid dynamics, hydrology and water resources. We take a multidisciplinary and
multifaceted approach to these complex problems, ranging from advanced
theoretical computational analyses to unique laboratory and local and global
field experiments.

## Research Areas

  * **Hydrometeorology:** Rainfall dynamics, land-atmosphere interaction,
    remote sensing
  * **Eco-hydrology:** Impact of hydroclimatic variability on ecosystems and
    feedbacks on the hydrologic cycle and local climate
  * **Contaminant transport hydrology:** Surface-subsurface interactions
  * **Water cycle dynamics** and human health, and stochastic hydrology

Related Study Opportunities

    

### PhD and Master of Science (MS) in Environmental Engineering

  * Both offer a study track in Hydrology and Fluid Dynamics

### Master of Engineering (MEng) in Environmental Engineering

Offers concentrations in:

  * Environmental Engineering and Public Policy
  * Environmental Process Engineering
  * Ecohydrology and Environmental Fluid Dynamics

### Undergraduate Research

  * Major in Environmental Engineering
  * Major in Civil Engineering and access the Environmental Engineering &
    Water Resources study track

## Primary Faculty

### Andrew Bragg

Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Fundamental and applied problems in fluid dynamics,
especially turbulence, and its role in environmental systems.

### Nathaniel Chaney

Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

### Akhenaton-Andrew Dhafir Jones

Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Biofilms, cardiovascular infections, infectious diseases,
biomaterials, antibiotics, porous media flows, fate and transport of
nanomaterials in biofilms, water quality sensors, environmental systems
analysis, environmental equity, environmental justice

### Zbigniew J. Kabala

Associate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Dr. Kabala's principal research interests cover stochastic
and deterministic theory of fluid flow and contaminant transport in saturated
and unsaturated heterogeneous porous media, theory of related measurements,
field and laboratory studies in subsurface hydrology, stochastic…

### Gabriel G. Katul

Theodore S. Coile Distinguished Professor of Hydrology and Micrometeorology

Research Interests: Micrometeorology and surface hydrology, Carbon and water
cycling, and Environmental fluid dynamics

### David E. Schaad

Professor of the Practice of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Sustainable engineering, community development, water and
wastewater treatment design, stormwater retention/detention and treatment
design, hazardous waste remediation, urban hydrology, constructed wetland and
stream restoration design, ecological stabilization, sustainable…

### Mark Wiesner

James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Membrane processes, nanostructured materials, transport
and fate of nanomaterials in the environment, colloidal and interfacial
processes, and environmental systems analysis

## Secondary Faculty

### James Hench

Associate Professor of Oceanography

### Marc A. Jeuland

Associate Professor in the Sanford School of Public Policy

### Wenhong Li

Associate Professor of Climate

### Ram Oren

Nicholas Distinguished Professor of Earth Systems Science

## Adjunct Faculty

### Massimo Germano

Adjunct Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Turbulence in fluids and its representation. Multiscale
decompositions of turbulent flows. The Navier-Stokes, the Large Eddy and the
Reynolds equations. Reynolds modeling and subgrid scale modeling for the Large
Eddy Simulation of turbulent flows. Hybrid RANS/LES modeling.

## Emeritus Faculty

### Miguel A. Medina

Profesor Emeritus of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Environmental engineering, cyberinfrastructure networks,
sensors, geotropospheric interactions, engineering systems optimization.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

