Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Risk & Resilient Systems

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Research

Faculty in Duke's **Risk & Resilient Systems** group focus on finding new and
better ways to model, estimate and quantify the dynamics, uncertainty and
risks prevalent in diverse engineered and natural systems—with the ultimate
goals of reducing risk, informing decisions and developing more resilient
systems.

Our research methods include dynamic systems analysis, numerical modeling,
uncertainty quantification and parallel computing. Our work has applications
in diverse areas, such as environmental and population health; energy and
climate systems; insurance risk assessment and financial engineering; and
hazard mitigation and resilient infrastructure.

## Research Areas

  * Bayesian decision theory and environmental risk assessment
  * Modeling, identification, and control for natural hazard mitigation
  * Uncertainty quantification in computational mechanics
  * Data analytics and numerical modeling
  * System dynamics, nonlinear dynamics and optimization
  * Engineering economics
  * Resilience engineering and sustainability

## MAJOR CENTERS & INITIATIVES

  * Interdisciplinary Program in Risk & Resilience Engineering

Related Study Opportunities

    

### PhD and Master of Science (MS)

  * Both offer a study track in Systems, Risk and Decision

### Master of Engineering (MEng) in Risk Engineering

  * Offers a concentration in Environmental Engineering & Public Policy

### Master of Engineering (MEng) in Civil Engineering

  * Offers a concentration in Systems Engineering and Optimization

### Undergraduate Research

  * Major in Environmental Engineering
  * Major in Civil Engineering

## Primary Faculty

### Mark Edward Borsuk

Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Mathematical models for integrating scientific information
on natural, technical, and social systems; Bayesian network modeling with
regular application to environmental and human health regulation and decision
making; novel approaches to climate change assessment, combining…

### Andrew Bragg

Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Fundamental and applied problems in fluid dynamics,
especially turbulence, and its role in environmental systems.

### David Carlson

Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Machine learning, predictive modeling, health data
science, statistical neuroscience

### Henri P. Gavin

Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Structural dynamics, earthquake engineering, seismic
hazard mitigation for building contents, nonlinear dynamics, system
identification, optimal control with application to systems with controllable
damping.

### Johann Guilleminot

Assistant Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Computational mechanics, mechanics of heterogeneous
materials, molecular dynamics simulations and atomistic-to-continuum coupling,
stochastic solvers, statistical inverse problem and model validation,
stochastic analysis, uncertainty quantification in science and engineering

### Guglielmo Scovazzi

Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Finite element methods, computational fluid and solid
mechanics, multiphase porous media flows, computational methods for fluid and
solid materials under extreme load conditions, turbulent flow computations,
instability phenomena.

### Mark Wiesner

James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Membrane processes, nanostructured materials, transport
and fate of nanomaterials in the environment, colloidal and interfacial
processes, and environmental systems analysis

## Secondary Faculty

### Wilkins Aquino

Anderson-Rupp Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Computational mechanics, finite element methods,
computational inverse problems and their applications in engineering and
biomedicine, scientific computing, computational acoustics and acoustics-
structure interaction, coupled chemo-mechanics (e.g., electrochemistry-
mechanics).

### Marc A. Jeuland

Associate Professor in the Sanford School of Public Policy

### Lawrence N. Virgin

Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Study of the behavior of nonlinear dynamical systems,
including the investigation of the fundamental nature of nonlinear systems
based on a mathematical description of their underlying equations of motion
and the application of recent results from nonlinear dynamical systems…

## Research Faculty

### Lisa L Satterwhite

Assistant Research Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental
Engineering

Research Interests: Satterwhite studies the genomics and epigenetics of
environmental exposures in populations with clear health disparity. Her group
identified the first genomic signature for pesticide exposure and is
developing simple blood tests to diagnose early stage asymptomatic…

## Adjunct Faculty

### Christine Ogilvie Hendren

Adjunct Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

### Lyesse Laloui

Adjunct Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

### Daniel Vallero

Adjunct Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

## Emeritus Faculty

### Henry Petroski

Aleksander S. Vesic Distinguished Professor Emeritus

Research Interests: Structural engineering; design; interrelationship between
success and failure in design; nature of invention; history of engineering and
technology.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

