Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Facts & Stats

## Mission

To investigate, develop, and impart fundamental and advanced engineering
knowledge relevant to the field of civil and environmental engineering and
emerging global and national challenges. From a foundation of core technical
knowledge and inquiry, we provide an experiential exposure to innovative
problem-solving, research, leadership, and creativity that prepares our
graduates for successful careers.

* * *

## Rankings

### Environmental Engineering

****#11** **graduate program in environmental engineering ( _5-way tie_ )

**#12** undergraduate program in environmental engineering

**#20** in faculty scholarly productivity in environmental engineering ( _tie_
)

### Civil Engineering

**#19** in faculty scholarly productivity in civil engineering ( _tie_ )

**Top 25** graduate degree program in civil engineering

**Top 25** undergraduate degree program in civil engineering ( _tie_ )

_Sources: U.S. News & World Report; Academic Analytics (v.2021)_

* * *

## Duke CEE At a Glance

**18** tenured and tenure-track faculty

**$5.2** million in new research awards, _fiscal 2021_

**55** PhD students

**34** Master's students

**37** Undergraduate students

**17** BSE graduates, Class of 2021

_(BSE Graduates: May graduates only, first major is civil engineering or
environmental engineering)_

## Scholarships

To competitive master's applicants, Duke CEE offers significant
support—typical scholarships range

### $20,000-$30,000

## EDUCATION

We provide comprehensive undergraduate and graduate educational programs that
align with our faculty's research interests.

Our graduates are sought after for positions in industry, government, academia
and the nonprofit sector.

### Undergraduate

We offer a Bachelor of Science degree with majors in civil engineering (with
study tracks in structural engineering or environmental engineering and water
resource) and environmental engineering.

Undergraduate certificates are offered in architectural engineering, global
development, and studies of energy and the environment.

### Master's

Duke CEE offers a research- and practice-focused Master of Science (MS), and a
career-focused Master of Engineering (MEng).

We offer **significant financial support** for competitive applicants to our
master's programs—typical scholarships range from $20,000-$30,000.

### Doctorate (PhD)

We offer a highly-ranked doctoral (PhD) program. More than half of Duke CEE
PhD grads go on to academic careers, many at some of the world's pre-eminent
research institutions. Over 40 percent go onto careers and leadership roles in
industry and government.

Where Duke CEE PhD grads go »

* * *

## RESEARCH

The Duke Department of Civil & Environmental Engineering is an extraordinary
team of faculty conducting research on topics such as the environmental
effects of nanotechnology, engineered microbial systems, water resources,
hydrometeorology, computational mechanics, geomechanical modeling and
characterization and more.

Duke CEE Research

### Affiliated Research Centers

  * PreMiEr—The NFS-supported Engineering Research Center for Precision
    Microbiome Engineering

  * Inframes— The NSF AccelNET-supported International Network for
    Researching, Advancing, and Assessing Materials for Environmental
    Sustainability

  * WaSH-AID—The Duke Center for Water, Sanitation and Hygiene
  * Duke Superfund Basic Research Center

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

