Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Faculty

Filter by Research Area

All Faculty

Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing

Environmental Health Engineering

Geomechanics & Geophysics

Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics

Risk & Resilient Systems

## W.H. Gardner, Jr. Chair

### Henri P. Gavin

Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Structural dynamics, earthquake engineering, seismic
hazard mitigation for building contents, nonlinear dynamics, system
identification, optimal control with application to systems with controllable
damping.

## Primary Faculty

### Michael Howard Bergin

Sternberg Family Professor of Civil & Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Aerosols are generated by a variety of natural and
anthropogenic sources. I am interested in the processes that emit, transform
and deposit particulate matter. A current focus of my research is how
particles in the atmosphere directly modify the surface radiation balance of
the…

### Fred K. Boadu

Associate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: How the engineering, environmental and petrophysical
properties of porous media (soils, fractured rock, biological tissues) affect
measurable geophysical responses, and subsequently develop methodologies by
which these properties can be obtained from non-invasive geophysical…

### Mark Edward Borsuk

Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Mathematical models for integrating scientific information
on natural, technical, and social systems; Bayesian network modeling with
regular application to environmental and human health regulation and decision
making; novel approaches to climate change assessment, combining…

### Andrew Bragg

Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Fundamental and applied problems in fluid dynamics,
especially turbulence, and its role in environmental systems.

### David Carlson

Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Machine learning, predictive modeling, health data
science, statistical neuroscience

### Nathaniel Chaney

Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

### Laura Elizabeth Dalton

Assistant Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: 4D Imaging; Carbon sequestration in porous materials;
sustainable material development; structural integrity of carbon capture and
storage wells; reactive transport in porous materials

### Marc Deshusses

Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Design, analysis and application of remediation, waste-to-
energy and decentralized sanitation processes, including novel reactors and
processes for air, water and solid wastes treatment.

### P. Lee Ferguson

Associate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Environmental analytical chemistry and applications of
high resolution mass spectrometry to trace organic contaminant analysis,
environmental fate and effects of carbon nanomaterials in the aquatic
environment, proteomics in environmental toxicology, and mechanisms of…

### Johann Guilleminot

Assistant Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Computational mechanics, mechanics of heterogeneous
materials, molecular dynamics simulations and atomistic-to-continuum coupling,
stochastic solvers, statistical inverse problem and model validation,
stochastic analysis, uncertainty quantification in science and engineering

### Claudia K. Gunsch

Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Identifying genetic adaptation mechanisms resulting from
anthropogenic contaminant exposure; developing biosensors capable of pathogen
and contaminant detection in water and air; studying the impact of emerging
contaminants on aquatic microbial ecology; and the development of…

### Heileen Hsu-Kim

Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Aquatic chemistry and geochemistry, trace element
environmental chemistry, nanogeoscience, mercury biogeochemistry, water-
particle surface processes.

### Tomasz Hueckel

Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Mechanics of materials, theoretical soil mechanics, rock
mechanics, theory of plasticity, multi-physics processes in geomechanics,
nuclear waste disposal, energy and environmental geomechanics.

### Akhenaton-Andrew Dhafir Jones

Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Biofilms, cardiovascular infections, infectious diseases,
biomaterials, antibiotics, porous media flows, fate and transport of
nanomaterials in biofilms, water quality sensors, environmental systems
analysis, environmental equity, environmental justice

### Zbigniew J. Kabala

Associate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Dr. Kabala's principal research interests cover stochastic
and deterministic theory of fluid flow and contaminant transport in saturated
and unsaturated heterogeneous porous media, theory of related measurements,
field and laboratory studies in subsurface hydrology, stochastic…

### Gabriel G. Katul

Theodore S. Coile Distinguished Professor of Hydrology and Micrometeorology

Research Interests: Micrometeorology and surface hydrology, Carbon and water
cycling, and Environmental fluid dynamics

### Jerome Peter Lynch

Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Prof. Lynch's research interests are in advancing cyber-
physical system architectures that combine sensing, computing, and control to
create intelligent civil infrastructure systems. He is best known for his
research portfolio in structural health monitoring (SHM) that allow…

### Joseph C. Nadeau

Professor of the Practice in Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Theoretical and applied mechanics, micromechanics,
composite materials, and probabilistic methods

### David E. Schaad

Professor of the Practice of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Sustainable engineering, community development, water and
wastewater treatment design, stormwater retention/detention and treatment
design, hazardous waste remediation, urban hydrology, constructed wetland and
stream restoration design, ecological stabilization, sustainable…

### Guglielmo Scovazzi

Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Finite element methods, computational fluid and solid
mechanics, multiphase porous media flows, computational methods for fluid and
solid materials under extreme load conditions, turbulent flow computations,
instability phenomena.

### Manolis Veveakis

Associate Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Theoretical and applied mechanics, Geomechanics,
Irreversible Thermodynamics. Emphasis on the multiphysical modelling of
plasticity of solids, solid-fluid interactions, friction laws and rheology of
geomaterials

### Mark Wiesner

James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Membrane processes, nanostructured materials, transport
and fate of nanomaterials in the environment, colloidal and interfacial
processes, and environmental systems analysis

## Secondary Faculty

### Wilkins Aquino

Anderson-Rupp Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Computational mechanics, finite element methods,
computational inverse problems and their applications in engineering and
biomedicine, scientific computing, computational acoustics and acoustics-
structure interaction, coupled chemo-mechanics (e.g., electrochemistry-
mechanics).

### Richard T. Di Giulio

Sally Kleberg Distinguished Professor of Environmental Toxicology

### John Everett Dolbow

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Modeling quasi-static and dynamic fracture of structural
components, the evolution of interfaces with nonlinear constitutive laws, and
developing models for stimulus-responsive hydrogels

### James Hench

Associate Professor of Oceanography

### David E. Hinton

Nicholas Distinguished Professor Emeritus of Environmental Quality

### Dana E. Hunt

Associate Professor of Microbial Ecology

### Marc A. Jeuland

Associate Professor in the Sanford School of Public Policy

### Prasad S. Kasibhatla

Professor in the Division of Environmental Sciences and Policy

### Wenhong Li

Associate Professor of Climate

### Joel Meyer

Associate Professor of Environmental Genomics in the Division of Environmental
Sciences and Policy

### Ram Oren

Nicholas Distinguished Professor of Earth Systems Science

### Heather M. Stapleton

Ronie-Richele Garcia-Johnson Distinguished Professor

Research Interests: Human exposure in indoor environments Use of silicone
wristbands to measure human exposure Chemical exposures and cancer risk
Targeted & Nontargeted mass spectrometry methods applied to environmental
samples Effects of halogenated organic contaminants (e.g. BFRs, PFAS) on…

### Avner Vengosh

Nicholas Distinguished Professor of Environmental Quality

### Lawrence N. Virgin

Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Study of the behavior of nonlinear dynamical systems,
including the investigation of the fundamental nature of nonlinear systems
based on a mathematical description of their underlying equations of motion
and the application of recent results from nonlinear dynamical systems…

## Research Faculty

### Lisa L Satterwhite

Assistant Research Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental
Engineering

Research Interests: Satterwhite studies the genomics and epigenetics of
environmental exposures in populations with clear health disparity. Her group
identified the first genomic signature for pesticide exposure and is
developing simple blood tests to diagnose early stage asymptomatic…

## Adjunct Faculty

### Melanie Auffan

Adjunct Assistant Professor

### Chris E. Brasier

Adjunct Associate Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental
Engineering

### Ryan Calder

Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental
Engineering

### Massimo Germano

Adjunct Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Turbulence in fluids and its representation. Multiscale
decompositions of turbulent flows. The Navier-Stokes, the Large Eddy and the
Reynolds equations. Reynolds modeling and subgrid scale modeling for the Large
Eddy Simulation of turbulent flows. Hybrid RANS/LES modeling.

### Christine Ogilvie Hendren

Adjunct Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

### Lyesse Laloui

Adjunct Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

### Eric Pierce

Adjunct Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

### Jerome C. Rose

Adjunct Associate Professor

Research Interests: Relation between nanostructure of materials and their
reactivity and toxicity. Characterization of the structure of ultra-small
(colloids and molecular clusters), and/or amorphous and highly divided
materials down to the molecular scale.

### Daniel Vallero

Adjunct Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

## Emeritus Faculty

### Ana P. Barros

Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School Distinguished Professor Emeritus of Civil and
Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Physics of water cycle processes in mountainous regions
with a focus on cloud formation and precipitation; remote sensing of the
environment using microwave and infrared sensors; long– range predictability
and risk analysis of natural hazards; computational environmental fluid…

### Miguel A. Medina

Profesor Emeritus of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Environmental engineering, cyberinfrastructure networks,
sensors, geotropospheric interactions, engineering systems optimization.

### J. Jeffrey Peirce

Associate Professor Emeritus of Civil and Environmental Engineering

### Henry Petroski

Aleksander S. Vesic Distinguished Professor Emeritus

Research Interests: Structural engineering; design; interrelationship between
success and failure in design; nature of invention; history of engineering and
technology.

## Podcast

Listen to a podcast from Duke Engineering, dedicated to the ingenious ways
that engineers are solving society's toughest problems.

Listen & subscribe

## News from Duke CEE

February 20, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Duke Engineering: Then & Now

February 20, 2023 | **_Duke Today_**

### Turkey’s Fate Was Sealed by Failures – Both Structural and Political,
Experts Say

February 10, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Katul Elected a Fellow of the National Academy of Engineering

View all news

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

