Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Civil Engineering Study Tracks

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Undergraduate
  3. Degrees

Duke's civil engineering (CE) major provides opportunities for training in
either, or both, of two tracks:

  * Structural engineering & mechanics (S/M)
  * Environmental engineering & water resources (E/W)

Both tracks share common opportunities in communication, systems, soils,
optimization, and economics.

Please also check out study opportunities such as certificate programs, double
majors (such as the CE/BME dual major), study abroad and undergraduate
research.

## Structural Engineering & Mechanics (S/M)

The application of solid mechanics and materials science to the design of
building systems and transportation systems to carry static loads and to
resist dynamic loads.

Undergraduate courses at Duke covering this area include:

  * EGR 120L(25L). Introduction to Structural Engineering
  * EGR 201L(75L). Mechanics of Solids
  * CEE 201L(130L). Uncertainity, Design and Optimization
  * CEE 302L(139L). Soil Mechanics
  * CEE 421L(131L). Matrix Structural Analysis
  * CEE 422L(133L). Concrete and Composite Structures
  * CEE 423L(134L). Metallic Structures
  * CEE 425(175). Analytical and Computational Solid Mechanics
  * CEE 429(192). Integrated Structural Design

Beyond the education provided by these undergraduate courses, students may
pursue independent study in areas of Structural Engineering and Mechanics on
which Duke places particular emphasis, including:

  * **Computational Mechanics** The study of how to efficiently and accurately
    simulate the response of complex materials and structures to a broad range
    of loading conditions. Computer simulations of stuctures undergoing
    cracking and yielding with large deformation are addressed by faculty in
    the department.
  * **Environmental Mechanics** The study of how extreme heat, aggressive
    chemical environments, and high mechanical loads affect the load-carrying
    capacity of solids, structures and soils.
  * **Structural Dynamics and Earthquake Engineering** The study of how
    earthquake-induced ground motions affect building and bridge structures,
    the design of such structures to resist earthquake loading, and the
    control of structures by using 'smart' materials to improve their dynamic
    response to earthquake loads.

### Fulfilling Study Track Requirements

Download the course check sheet for your graduation year to determine the
required classes for this track.

Field trip to the US National Whitewater Center in Charlotte, NC

* * *

## Environmental Engineering & Water Resources (E/W)

The application of biology, chemistry, and fluid mechanics to the analysis of
natural environments and the design of systems to reduce the effects of
pollutants on the environment and on public health. See also the certificate
in energy and the environment.

Undergraduate courses at Duke covering environmental engineering include:

  * CEE 160L(24L). Introduction to Environmental Engineering and Science
  * CEE 461L(120L). Chemical Processes in Environmental Engineering
  * CEE 462L(124L). Biological Processes in Environmental Engineering

Beyond the education provided by these undergraduate courses, students may
pursue independent study in areas of Environmental Engineering on which Duke
places particular emphasis, including:

  * **Environmental Biotechnology and Bioremediation** The response of
    microbial communities to anthropogenic perturbations and the manipulation
    of microbial processes to degrade anthropogenic compounds
  * **Environmental Nanoscience** The study of nanoscale materials for
    environmental treatment technology and their potential impacts for
    environmental quality and human health
  * **Air Quality** The study of atmospheric contaminants, their persistence,
    and potential exposure hazards for humans
  * **Energy and the Environment** The development of innovative solutions
    that meet the global demand for energy and the environmental implications
    associated with energy production
  * **Environmental Chemistry** The study of chemical processes that control
    the transformation, partitioning, and bioavailability of pollutants,
    nutrients, and other compounds in environmental media
  * **Sensors** The development of devices to improve detection and control of
    trace constituents in air, water and soil

The application of fluid mechanics, soil mechanics, and, in many cases
chemistry, to the analysis of the flow of water within the water-table,
between the water-table and the surface, and on the surface. See also the
certificate in energy and the environment.

Undergraduate courses at Duke covering water resources include:

  * CEE 301L(122L). Fluid Mechanics
  * CEE 302L(139L). Soil Mechanics
  * CEE 462L(123L). Water Resources Engineering
  * CEE 469(193). Integrated Environmental Design

Beyond the education provided by these undergraduate courses, students may
pursue independent study in areas of Water Resources and Hydrology on which
Duke places particular emphasis, including:

  * **Environmental Fluid Dynamics** The study of atmospheric and oceanic
    flows in the meso-scale and the global scale for the prediction of long-
    term and medium-term environmental changes; turbulent transport in rivers,
    wetlands and plant canopies; exchanges of water and other substances
    within the soil-plant-atmosphere system.
  * **Vadose-Zone Hydrology** The study of water flow beneath the ground
    surface and above the water table; tracking and prediction of contaminant
    plumes in the sub-surface, contaminant remediation within the subsurface.
  * **Eco-Hydrology** The study of the interaction between hydrological
    processes and terrestrial ecosystems), modeling and analysis of
    precipitation space-time dynamics
  * **Environmental Mechanics** The study of how mechanical loads, chemical
    environments, and fluid flows interact and modify each other. The use of
    electro-magnetic waves and stress waves to interrogate the properties of
    the sub-surface.

### Fulfilling Study Track Requirements

Download the course check sheet for your graduation year to determine the
required classes for this track.

## Undergraduate Contacts

### Joseph Nadeau

Professor of the Practice and Director of Undergraduate Studies

__919-660-5216

__nadeau@duke.edu

### Nicolle Hinz

Program Coordinator

__919-660-4977

__nicolle.hinz@duke.edu

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

