

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * News
  * Events
  * Steering Committee
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
    * The Duke Difference
    * Career Services
    * Graduate Outcomes
    * What Tech Leaders Are Saying
  * Degree
  * Courses
  * Faculty
  * Advisory Board
  * Apply

__

# Cybersecurity Courses

Browse Duke Cybersecurity Courses

In order to offer courses in today's most in-demand skills and industry-
relevant topics, course offerings and content are subject to change.

**Please Note:** Not all courses are offered every semester. Scheduled courses
may be subject to change during course registration periods, including the
possibility of course cancellation.

## Industry Preparation Core

### MENG 540: Management of High-Tech Industries

The purpose of this course is to empower students to become collaborative,
ethical leaders in the globalized, 21st-century workplace. Students learn
concepts and practice skills that will enable them to transition from being an
engineering sole contributor to managing and leading others as a business
professional. Students gain a sound understanding of management and
leadership; increase awareness of their own management and leadership styles;
build and practice competencies essential for team success (e.g., effective
communication, collaboration, conflict resolution); and become ethical leaders
above reproach. Emphasis is on leading teams in a volatile, complex and
interdependent world.

### MENG 570: Business Fundamentals for Engineers

This comprehensive course examines core and evolving concepts in the business
fundamentals of successful technology-based companies including Business Plan
Development & Strategies, Marketing, Product & Process Development processes,
Intellectual Property, Accounting, Finance, and Operations. Students will
learn the fundamentals essential to understanding all aspects of a business
and will be able to converse in some depth in each of the areas studied upon
completion. Other topics will include Supply Chain Management, Stage-Gate
Development Cycles, Balances Scorecards, Blue Ocean Strategy, and Disruptive
Technologies.

## Cybersecurity Technical Core _  
_

### CYBERSEC 500: Introduction to Cybersecurity Perspectives

This course provides an overview of the domains, concepts, and elements and
reviews current and emerging trends in Cybersecurity. Students will learn the
National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework
considering IT systems components, operating systems concepts, basic data
analysis, and networking concepts including networking technologies and
protocols. Real-world examples will be used to cover significant types of
security incidents and their impact and remediation. Fundamental security
design principles, information assurance fundamentals, and the significance of
cryptography. Readings in different media will be used to demonstrate how
quickly the threat and vulnerability landscape is changing across different
industries.

### CYBERSEC 502: Multidisciplinary Cybersecurity: Government, Public Policy,
Law, and Select Industry Topics

Rapid progress in global digital transformation and connectivity requires us
to think and act differently in the cyber domain. National security, economic
security, and business interests are impacted by vulnerable information
systems. Domestic and international cyber-crime is on the rise. Hostile
governments infiltrate public and private sector systems with relative
impunity causing billions of dollars in financial damage and undermining
public trust and confidence. Our notion of privacy is also changing. Students
will explore cybersecurity through a non-technical lens by studying U.S.
government responsibilities, law, and public policy as they relate to selected
topics including finance, health care, and trade. Students will also gain an
understanding of privacy, cybersecurity standards manifested in public policy,
and how cybercrime is prosecuted.

### CYBERSEC 503: Cybersecurity Risk Management

Understanding and measuring the risk involved with real and potential
cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities are fundamental for an organization
or enterprise to invest in and to protect its information and operational
infrastructure, its constituents, its relationships, and its reputation.
Students will learn and apply various modeling techniques to identify and
quantify risk and how they are used to determine the value and criteria for
managing that risk. Risk management concepts and standards will be explored
including its essential elements, effective governance, understanding the
appetite for risk, and the need for developing appropriate policies and
procedures to mitigate risk. These concepts and standards will be addressed
across different industries and environments.

## Electives

Technology Track

### CYBERSEC 510: Security Incident Detection, Response and Resilience

Current and emerging technologies and processes to monitor, detect and respond
to security incidents in systems, networks, and clouds will be covered
including automation and analytics. Best practices for developing effective
incident response plans, including regulatory and legal considerations, will
be studied. Also studied is how to build resilience into development,
manufacturing, or other business processes in the case of an incident.

### CYBERSEC 511: Cybersecurity in the Software Development Life Cycle

Teaches students about all steps of the software development lifecycle and the
role Cybersecurity design principles play in requirements definition, design,
development, testing, and maintenance. Tools and techniques to provide
software security analysis and software assurance will be explored including
software reverse engineering.

### CYBERSEC 520: Applying Machine Learning to Advance Cybersecurity

The use of machine learning and AI is becoming more prevalent for collecting
and analyzing data as its consolidation increases in value. Cyberattacks seek
to steal, deny access, misrepresent (such as _deepfakes_ ), or compromise the
privacy of information. Students will explore the power of machine learning
and AI’s use in enhancing Cybersecurity tools across the NIST Framework and
also in detecting and exploiting vulnerabilities in timeframes and ways
heretofore unthinkable.

### CYBERSEC 590.XX: Web3 Engineering & Security

Web 3 technologies are advancing at ever increasing rate, with security being
a critical component of that evolution. This class will serve to analyze the
current state of cybersecurity, the most critical needs moving forward - both
from a technical as well policy and regulatory perspective. Students will
require interdisciplinary skills - technical development, legal, and business.
Additional topic areas will include digital identity, securing proofing
systems, core internet protocols and development tools. The course will also
include a team project designed to advance one or more topic areas covered.

### FINTECH 510: Programming for FinTech

This class is aimed at students who want to focus on financial technology
(FinTech) but who may not have a programming or even technical background.
This course will bring students up to speed on programming, data structures,
and algorithms. C++ is the language of choice in this class because C and C++
are very commonly used by computer engineers.

In order for students to make such impressive learning gains in their first
semester, students must come prepared by having good programming skills in C.
Novices should achieve this by completing Duke's Coursera specialization
_Introduction to Programming in C_ before the start of the term. Those with
some programming experience may also wish to complete the specialization to
learn professional tools and acquire deep understanding of concepts taught in
the specialization.

Students of all backgrounds will take a required self-assessment prior to the
start of the term to assist them in choosing the right programming sequence. 3
units.

### FINTECH 564: Blockchain

Blockchain technology is being embraced in finance and other industries as an
encryption base for all types of applications. This course explores the
history, current environment, and near-term outlook of financial innovation
(FinTech), focusing on applications of Blockchain technology. Topics range
from digital stores of value to documents and transactions. Students will
learn to formulate an accurate image and deep practical understanding of the
capabilities and limitations of various blockchain techniques. Students will
gain hands-on experience creating a simple Blockchain contract and will be
able to converse on a practical basis about what Blockchain can and cannot do.
3 units.

Technology Management Track

### CYBERSEC 531: The Human Element in Cybersecurity

Most cybersecurity attacks and breaches are due to social engineering
techniques like _phishing_ to obtain user identities and access privileges to
circumvent an enterprise’s defense mechanisms and to access sensitive data and
control systems. The student will study these techniques and current and
emerging practices to prevent or minimize unintentional user errors or
deliberate illegal insider threats. How to create an effective security
awareness program and integrate it all relevant business processes will be one
of the key topics covered.

### CYBERSEC 530: Identity and Access Management

This course will explore the everyday tasks and procedures that the IT
security team employs to manage user and admin identities for authentication
and access management. Students will learn the latest technologies and
practices for multi-factor authentication, single sign-on, and real-time
privileges administration and what are the best practices for different use
cases.

### CYBERSEC 521: Cybersecurity Program Development, Operations & Analysis

Students will examine the life cycle of a cybersecurity program from
development, administration, evaluation, and improvement processes.
Operational and strategic roles including the chief information security
officer (CISO) in a representative security team will be studied and current
and evolving areas where the team is placed in the enterprise. Best practices
and models for how a security team’s performance can be measured will be
learned with some real-world examples.

### PUBPOL 551S: Cybersecurity and National Security Law and Policy

Course examines issues of cybersecurity and privacy. Focuses on roles that
different government organizations play in protecting cybersecurity. Course
also examines the issues raised by the government's acquisition and storage of
information in the interests of national security. Examines the intersection
between commercial privacy and cybersecurity, business planning and government
surveillance in the global economy, focusing on the US and the EU, with
particular attention to the tensions that have arisen in the aftermath of the
Snowden revelations of NSA surveillance activity, various large scale
cybersecurity breaches and questions as to the trustworthiness of technology.

## Admissions

Have a question about the program or admissions? Contact the **Admissions &
Recruiting team** at pratt_masters@duke.edu.

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
      *  __The Duke Difference
      *  __Career Services
      *  __Graduate Outcomes
      *  __What Tech Leaders Are Saying
    *  __Degree
    *  __Courses
    *  __Faculty
    *  __Advisory Board
    *  __Apply
  * __Quick Links
    * __News
    *  __Events
    *  __Steering Committee
    *  __Contact

    * 

