

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * News
  * Events
  * Steering Committee
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
    * The Duke Difference
    * Career Services
    * Graduate Outcomes
    * What Tech Leaders Are Saying
  * Degree
  * Courses
  * Faculty
  * Advisory Board
  * Apply

__

# News

November 10, 2021

### Leading from the Boardroom: Private Company Governance

Jimmie Lenz, Director for FinTech and Cybersecurity Masters programs, will
speak during Day 2 of the Forum

October 26, 2021 | **_FDIC Podcast_**

### The Age of Quantum Banking

Three of the nation’s leading minds in quantum computing from Duke
University’s Pratt School of Engineering: Dr. Jimmie Lenz, Dr. Jungsang Kim
and Dr. Chris Monroe share their thoughts on the future of quantum computing.

October 11, 2021 | **_North Carolina Defense Technology Transition Office_**

### Dr. Jimmie Lenz on the Defense Technology Talks

NC DEFTECH Defense Technology Talks is a podcast that allows listeners to
learn more about the North Carolina Innovation Ecosystem. NC DEFTECH provides
insights to assist in Business Development, Teaming Opportunities and winning
Government Contracts.

October 08, 2021 | **_Duke Engineering News_**

### ‘Intelligent Classroom’ Apps Use AI to Improve Teaching & Learning in
Real-Time

Duke-developed machine-learning tools show promise of focused, personalized
instruction—regardless of how many students are being taught

October 07, 2021 | **_Duke Engineering News_**

### DAREC Deepens Duke’s Efforts to Educate Engineers in FinTech

Farman-Farmaian gift supports the new Digital Asset Research & Engineering
Collaborative

October 01, 2021 | **_Duke Translation & Commercialization_**

### Pratt Faculty Members Jungsang Kim and Christopher Monroe, Founders of the
Quantum Computing Company IonQ, Join IonQ President and CEO in Ringing the
NYSE Opening Bell

Duke Startup IonQ Becomes First Publicly Traded, Pure-Play Quantum Computing
Company; Closes Business Combination with dMY Technology Group III

October 01, 2021 | **_Duke Government Relations_**

### Advancing Tech – Aligning Policy on Cyber, FinTech and Crypto

On September 14, Duke in DC hosted a congressional briefing, From
Technological Advancement to FinTech – How Congress Should Think About Cyber
Policy, which addressed many new technological threats faced in the U.S.
including ransomware, cryptocurrency, and more.

September 15, 2021 | **_Duke Engineering News_**

### Engineering for Impact: Meet Duke Engineering’s Next Dean

Jerome Lynch shares his perspectives on Duke Engineering, initial priorities
as dean, and vision for the transformative role engineers can play in society

September 10, 2021 | **_CNBC_**

### Mastercard makes a big bet on crypto, buying blockchain analytics start-up
CipherTrace

Mastercard said Thursday it entered into an agreement to buy CipherTrace for
an undisclosed amount.

September 02, 2021

### Duke Cyber Club and Annoucements

Welcome to Duke Cyber Explore Duke's Student-Led Cyber & Tech Hub

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * 1
  * 2
  * 3
  * 4
  * 5
  * 6
  * 7
  * 8
  * 9
  * next ›
  * last »

## Admissions

Have a question about the program or admissions? Contact the **Admissions &
Recruiting team** at pratt_masters@duke.edu.

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
      *  __The Duke Difference
      *  __Career Services
      *  __Graduate Outcomes
      *  __What Tech Leaders Are Saying
    *  __Degree
    *  __Courses
    *  __Faculty
    *  __Advisory Board
    *  __Apply
  * __Quick Links
    * __News
    *  __Events
    *  __Steering Committee
    *  __Contact

    * 

