

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * News
  * Events
  * Steering Committee
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
    * The Duke Difference
    * Career Services
    * Graduate Outcomes
    * What Tech Leaders Are Saying
  * Degree
  * Courses
  * Faculty
  * Advisory Board
  * Apply

__

# News

April 27, 2021 | **_Duke Engineering News_**

### Duke Engineering Launches Institute for Enterprise Engineering

New organization will increase opportunities for professional education,
industry partnerships focused on applying technological innovation to
enterprises

April 16, 2021 | **_Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation_**

### FDIC and Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering Announce Strategic
Partnership to Promote Innovation

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and Duke University’s Pratt
School of Engineering today announced a strategic partnership to support
technological innovation in the banking and financial services sectors.

April 12, 2021 | **_FDIC_**

### FDIC and Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering Announce Strategic
Partnership to Promote Innovation

Agreement provides a roadmap for the FDIC’s Tech Lab and Duke faculty and
students to collaborate in a number of areas focused on innovation, including
artificial intelligence, risk management, quantitative research and
cybersecurity

March 19, 2021

### Duke Cyber Policy Lecture - Investing in Cybersecurity

Christopher Steed will give a lecture as part of our Sanford Cyber Policy
Program lecture series.

March 19, 2021

### How to Protect the Cybersecurity of Health Data: A Conversation with Errol
Weiss and John Banghart

During the pandemic, cybersecurity attacks on health care providers has risen
dramatically

March 11, 2021 | **_NCMBC_**

### DOD's Joint Artificial Intelligence Center (JAIC)—How to Make AI Real

Webinar on March 18, 2021

March 11, 2021 | **_Duke Event Calendar_**

### Tech Topics Seminar: Cybersecurity

The Technical Topics Seminar Series introduces Duke Engineering master's
students to important technological development across engineering
disciplines.

March 09, 2021 | **_Baseline Protocol_**

### Announcing Baseline Grants and $100,000 Ethereum Foundation Gift

The Baseline Protocol is excited to announce the creation of the Baseline
Protocol Grants program! This program is designed to encourage and accelerate
baseline protocol R&D and enablement efforts.

March 03, 2021 | **_Duke Today_**

### Amid a Pandemic, New and Renovated Buildings Open

Mitchell Vann, the director of Facilities for the Pratt School of Engineering,
knows that the Duke community will find a lot to be proud of in the Wilkinson
Building.

February 23, 2021 | **_Duke University Department of Political Science_**

### Duke Women in National Security

Perspectives from Inside the DoD, State Department, and the Intel Community

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * 1
  * 2
  * 3
  * 4
  * 5
  * 6
  * 7
  * 8
  * 9
  * next ›
  * last »

## Admissions

Have a question about the program or admissions? Contact the **Admissions &
Recruiting team** at pratt_masters@duke.edu.

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
      *  __The Duke Difference
      *  __Career Services
      *  __Graduate Outcomes
      *  __What Tech Leaders Are Saying
    *  __Degree
    *  __Courses
    *  __Faculty
    *  __Advisory Board
    *  __Apply
  * __Quick Links
    * __News
    *  __Events
    *  __Steering Committee
    *  __Contact

    * 

