

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * News
  * Events
  * Steering Committee
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
    * The Duke Difference
    * Career Services
    * Graduate Outcomes
    * What Tech Leaders Are Saying
  * Degree
  * Courses
  * Faculty
  * Advisory Board
  * Apply

__

# News

September 02, 2021 | **_Duke Engineering News_**

### Jerome Lynch Named New Dean of Pratt School of Engineering

University of Michigan chair is nationally known for developing smart
technologies to improve civil infrastructure systems

September 01, 2021 | **_The Cybersecurity Readiness Podcast_**

### Multidisciplinary and Integrative Approach to Cybersecurity Education

In a very engaging and thoughtful discussion, Dr. Jimmie Lenz, Dir. Master of
Engineering in FinTech and Master of Engineering in Cybersecurity at Duke
University's Pratt School of Engineering, spoke to the importance of a
multidisciplinary and integrative approach to cybersecurity education.

August 24, 2021 | **_Google_**

### Untitled Investment Talk: Crypto Regulation-US vs EU with Jimmie Lenz and
Patrick Hansen

A lot of regulatory crypto drama in the US lately.

August 24, 2021 | **_Apple_**

### Untitled Investment Talk: Crypto Regulation-US vs EU with Jimmie Lenz and
Patrick Hansen

A lot of regulatory crypto drama in the US lately.

August 24, 2021 | **_Spotify_**

### Untitled Investment Talk: Crypto Regulation-US vs EU with Jimmie Lenz and
Patrick Hansen

A lot of regulatory crypto drama in the US lately.

August 13, 2021 | **_Duke in DC_**

### From Technological Advancement to FinTech – How Congress Should Think
About Cyber Policy

As technology progresses, new concerns continue to sprout up along with it.
The U.S. today faces a host of new issues to manage both internationally and
domestically.

August 10, 2021 | **_Association for Information Systems (AIS)_**

### Financial Technologies on Campus: The Rise of FinTech in Higher Education-
FinTech Higher Education at AMCIS Digital Innovation Conference

AMCIS 2021 TREO Chairs are excited to once again offer Teaching, Research,
Education and Opinion (TREO) sessions to provide attendees a platform to
present their research ideas, education papers, or opinion papers covering any
area of IS or IT to get feedback from session attendees.

August 05, 2021 | **_The Cybersecurity Readiness Podcast_**

### Episode 4: The Human Vulnerability Factor

A widely reported 2019 survey found that 99% of the attacks are focused on
exploiting human vulnerabilities by targeting people instead of computer
systems and infrastructure.

August 05, 2021 | **_The Cybersecurity Readiness Podcast_**

### Episode 3: Going Above and Beyond the Mandated Checklist

When top management proactively takes every possible precaution to protect
sensitive data because it is the right thing to do and not because there is a
legislative requirement, that’s when the organization would have taken a huge
step forward in earning customer confidence and trust.

August 05, 2021 | **_The Cybersecurity Readiness Podcast_**

### Episode 2: Protecting Academic Institutions from Ransomware and Other
Forms of Attacks

Educational institutions have been the target and victim of ransomware
attacks. Garry Scobie, Deputy Chief Information Security Officer, The
University of Edinburg, spoke at length with Dr. Dave Chatterjee on protecting
academic institutions from ransomware and other forms of cyber-attacks.

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * 1
  * 2
  * 3
  * 4
  * 5
  * 6
  * 7
  * 8
  * 9
  * next ›
  * last »

## Admissions

Have a question about the program or admissions? Contact the **Admissions &
Recruiting team** at pratt_masters@duke.edu.

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
      *  __The Duke Difference
      *  __Career Services
      *  __Graduate Outcomes
      *  __What Tech Leaders Are Saying
    *  __Degree
    *  __Courses
    *  __Faculty
    *  __Advisory Board
    *  __Apply
  * __Quick Links
    * __News
    *  __Events
    *  __Steering Committee
    *  __Contact

    * 

