

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * News
  * Events
  * Steering Committee
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
    * The Duke Difference
    * Career Services
    * Graduate Outcomes
    * What Tech Leaders Are Saying
  * Degree
  * Courses
  * Faculty
  * Advisory Board
  * Apply

__

# News

August 05, 2021 | **_The Cybersecurity Readiness Podcast_**

### Episode 1:Role of Top Management in Cybersecurity Governance

The recent ransomware attacks on Colonial Pipeline and JBS are grave reminders
that organizations at all levels must constantly be in a high state of
cybersecurity readiness and alert.

August 05, 2021 | **_The Cybersecurity Readiness Podcast_**

### Being An Effective Chief Information Security Officer (CISO)

Richard Biever, Chief Information Security Officer, Duke University, shares
valuable insights on how to create an effective CISO function.

August 05, 2021 | **_Youtube Podcast_**

### Being an Effective Chief Information Security Officer -- The Cybersecurity
Readiness Podcast Series

Richard Biever, Chief Information Security Officer, Duke University, shares
valuable insights on how to create an effective CISO function.

July 22, 2021 | **_Financial Times_**

### US banks need better approach to fintech, says ex-Goldman executive

Partnerships and acquisitions are needed to keep up with technological
innovation, says Sheila Patel

July 15, 2021 | **_The Economist_**

### Investment in fintech booms as upstarts go mainstream

Firms’ expansion plans and investors’ search for returns bring a blizzard of
deals and listings

July 13, 2021 | **_ICRC_**

### Free registration for Tel Aviv University’s Cyber Week.

Cyber Week 2021 invites you to experience expert-driven content high level
networking and the world's and the world's best cybersecurity speakers.

July 13, 2021 | **_Atlantic Council_**

### Register here for the latest cyber event hosted by the Atlantic Council on
“Muckrakers and news breakers: the role of journalists in cybersecurity.”

The Cyber 9/12 NextGen Fund event series builds on Cyber 9/12’s ability to
sharpen the leading edge of the cyber skills pipeline through competition,
training, and teamwork by creating connective tissue between individual
competitions.

July 08, 2021 | **_Scowcroft Center for Strategy and Security_**

### Apply by July 23 for a Fall 2021 Paid Internship in the Cyber Statecraft
Initiative

Work with a cyber team to gain hands-on experience in research and writing,
event planning, and creating strategic initiatives on pertinent cyber issues
within a think tank.

July 07, 2021 | **_BBC News_**

### US companies hit by 'colossal' cyber-attack

About 200 US businesses have been hit by a "colossal" ransomware attack,
according to a cyber-security firm.

July 07, 2021 | **_FDIC_**

### FDITECH Opens Registration for Tech Sprint to Reach the Unbanked

WASHINGTON – The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) today opened the
registration period to participate in a Tech Sprint designed to explore new
technologies

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * 1
  * 2
  * 3
  * 4
  * 5
  * 6
  * 7
  * 8
  * 9
  * next ›
  * last »

## Admissions

Have a question about the program or admissions? Contact the **Admissions &
Recruiting team** at pratt_masters@duke.edu.

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
      *  __The Duke Difference
      *  __Career Services
      *  __Graduate Outcomes
      *  __What Tech Leaders Are Saying
    *  __Degree
    *  __Courses
    *  __Faculty
    *  __Advisory Board
    *  __Apply
  * __Quick Links
    * __News
    *  __Events
    *  __Steering Committee
    *  __Contact

    * 

