

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * News
  * Events
  * Steering Committee
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
    * The Duke Difference
    * Career Services
    * Graduate Outcomes
    * What Tech Leaders Are Saying
  * Degree
  * Courses
  * Faculty
  * Advisory Board
  * Apply

__

# News

June 16, 2021 | **_FDIC Podcast_**

### Engineering Innovation in the Banking System

FDIC’s Chief Innovation Officer Sultan Meghji sits down with Duke’s Jimmie
Lenz to discuss how to build the banking system of the future

June 15, 2021 | **_Business North Carolina_**

### Mission critical: How N.C. can win more military innovation contracts, Two
Duke Faculty including Kim Kotlar are quoted...

Last week, I sat in on a presentation by a group that is trying to increase
military dollars and defense contracts for North Carolina researchers and
companies.

June 08, 2021 | **_Duke Engineering News_**

### Craig Hurwitz: Bringing Financial Technology Insights to the Classroom

As the new Executive-in-Residence with Duke Engineering’s FinTech and
Cybersecurity master’s programs, Craig S. Hurwitz, CFA will draw on his wide-
ranging industry expertise to help students find success in evolving tech
fields

June 02, 2021 | **_WRAL_**

### “Dr. Richard Beiver, professor Duke Cybersecurity Graduate Program” 5 on
Your Side: How to avoid becoming a cyberattack victim

So much of our lives rely on our computers and networks, yet security is
usually an afterthought.

June 01, 2021 | **_Wall Street Journal_**

### Ban Cryptocurrency to Fight Ransomware

The existence of bitcoin and the rest benefits nobody except criminals and
speculators

June 01, 2021 | **_CNBC_**

### Why this expert says to fight ransomware, we need to ban cryptocurrency

CNBC’s “Power Lunch” team discusses the rise of cryptocurrencies and
ransomware attacks

May 17, 2021 | **_WBTW News 13_**

### Experts say Colonial Pipeline cyber hack calls for new approach to
cybersecurity

Cybersecurity experts say panic gas buying and impatience at the pump can
serve as a wake-up call for businesses to prioritize security structures.

May 11, 2021 | **_The New York Times_**

### Cyberattack Forces a Shutdown of a Top U.S. Pipeline

The operator, Colonial Pipeline, said it had halted systems for its 5,500
miles of pipeline after being hit by a ransomware attack.

May 03, 2021 | **_U.S. News_**

### Apple Announces 1st East Coast Campus in North Carolina

Apple announced plans on Monday to invest more than $1 billion in North
Carolina to build the company's first East Coast campus, a move expected to
bring at least 3,000 new jobs to the state.

May 03, 2021 | **_Federal Drive with Tom Temin_**

### THE FDIC PARTNERS WITH AN ENGINEERING SCHOOL TO WORK ON THE NEXT ROUND OF
INNOVATION

In an unlikely-sounding paring, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has
formed what it calls a strategic partnership with engineering school at Duke
University. Students will work with the FDIC on innovation in topics like
finance and risk management. Joining the Federal Drive with more, the d

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * 1
  * 2
  * 3
  * 4
  * 5
  * 6
  * 7
  * 8
  * 9
  * next ›
  * last »

## Admissions

Have a question about the program or admissions? Contact the **Admissions &
Recruiting team** at pratt_masters@duke.edu.

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
      *  __The Duke Difference
      *  __Career Services
      *  __Graduate Outcomes
      *  __What Tech Leaders Are Saying
    *  __Degree
    *  __Courses
    *  __Faculty
    *  __Advisory Board
    *  __Apply
  * __Quick Links
    * __News
    *  __Events
    *  __Steering Committee
    *  __Contact

    * 

