

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Signature Research Themes

# Duke Engineering Signature Discoveries

_A timeline of selected research and innovation milestones  
_

## 1970

BME faculty member James McElhaney describes the mechanical properties of
cranial bone. He goes on to describe many measurements and **models of head,
neck and spinal cord injury mechanisms** that have widely informed the design
of protective football and motorcycle helmets, restraint systems, airbags and
swimming pools.

## 1976

Fredrick “Fritz” Thurstone, one of the founders of Duke’s biomedical
engineering department, and graduate student Olaf von Ramm lay the foundation
for the phased-array imaging system that revolutionizes cardiac imaging and
paves the way for **real-time ultrasound imaging in clinical practice**.

## 1985

Henry Petroski (CEE) publishes **_To Engineer Is Human: The Role of Failure in
Successful Design_** , the first of nearly 20 popular and critically acclaimed
books that make his reputation as “America’s poet laureate of technology.”

## 1987

Olaf von Ramm and Stephen Smith (BME) invent the **first real-time 3-D
ultrasonic scanner** (4-D). It is now used worldwide in multiple medical
specialties.

## 1990

Earl Dowell, Kenneth Hall and MEMS team demonstrate an innovative method of
**modeling complex, time-varying fluid flows** much more efficiently and
compactly than previous methods, opening up new possibilities for
understanding and controlling such flows. Their insights are widely used in
current airframe and turbine designs for power plants, airplanes and
windmills. Most recently these ideas have been extended to modeling turbulence
in fluids, which some say is the great unsolved problem in classical
mechanics.

## 1990

Ray Ideker with Patrick Wolf and William Smith (BME) **optimize biphasic
waveforms for defibrillation of the heart**. This discovery improved clinical
defibrillators and made possible smaller and lighter implantable devices using
transvenous lead systems.

## 1991

Duke engineering distinguished alumnus and adjunct professor Blake Wilson
develops the **continuous interleaved sampling (CIS) processing strategy for
cochlear implants** , dramatically improving how implanted patients perceive
speech. The breakthrough became the basis for current sound-processing
strategies that launched a rapid expansion in the use of cochlear implants. In
2013 Wilson received the Lasker Award (“American Nobel”) in recognition of the
work.

## 1991

BME’s Howard Clark and Duke cardiologist Richard Stack patent the **first
bioabsorbable stent** , which inspired modern stents with bioabsorbable
sheaths that deliver drugs inside diseased vessel walls and then biodegrades,
eliminating many complications associated with permanent stents.

## 1996

David Needham (MEMS), working with radiation oncologist Mark Dewhirst, invents
a **new cancer treatment using heat-sensitive liposomes** to precisely deliver
high concentrations of cancer drugs within tumors, while sparing normal
tissue. The therapy is currently in clinical trials.

## 1996

Adrian Bejan (MEMS) postulates the **constructal law of design and evolution
in nature** , which states that movement (or “flow”) systems such as trees,
rivers or air currents evolve into configurations that provide easier and
easier access to flows. Now internationally recognized, the law is
increasingly finding applications in improving design and maximizing
efficiency of manmade systems. In 2001 Bejan was ranked among the 100 most
highly cited authors worldwide in engineering by the Institute for Scientific
Information.

## 1999

Duke anesthesiologist and biomedical engineer Laura Niklason creates a novel
"bioreactor" system and uses it to grow blood vessels that look and act like
the real thing. A significant advance in the field of tissue engineering, the
discovery ultimately leads to the first U.S. implantation of a **bioengineered
blood vessel** , performed at Duke University Medical Center in 2013.

## 1999

Ashutosh Chilkoti (BME) develops the first elastin-like polypeptide fusion
that provides a new method to purify proteins without chromatography—opening a
new path to **developing drugs with greater potency and fewer side effects**.
The innovation launches a new avenue for drug delivery that is currently in
development by research groups worldwide, and launches the startup company
PhaseBio pharmaceuticals, where the technology is in late-stage clinical
trials for drugs to treat endocrine and metabolic disorders and heart disease.

## 2001

Farshid Guilak (BME) develops **new methods to isolate stem cells from human
fat** and use them to regenerate articular cartilage and other musculoskeletal
tissues. Lauded as a breakthrough in tissue engineering, and providing an
alternative to embryonic stem cells for use in research and treatments, the
technology is currently in pre-clinical trials.

## 2003

Joseph Izatt's BME research group demonstrates more than 100-fold improvement
in the sensitivity of **Optical Coherence Tomography** (OCT) biomedical
imaging technology, which he helped develop for imaging delicate structures of
the eye while at MIT. The more sensitive Fourier Domain OCT technology is now
the standard of care worldwide for diagnosis and treatment monitoring of
blinding retinal diseases, with millions of patients imaged with this
technology every year.

## 2002

Gregg Trahey and Kathryn Nightingale (BME) demonstrate **a device that uses
ultrasound to image and measure stiffness** of breast tissue and, eventually,
other tissues. The advance allows clinicians to detect and diagnose ailments
such as liver scarring and prostate cancer without having to make a single
incision in the patient.

## 2003

Lawrence Carin, Leslie Collins and other Duke electrical and computer
engineering researchers develop **new data-processing techniques for detecting
hidden landmines** and other explosive devices. The techniques are now in use
by the U.S. military.

## 2003

Miguel Nicolelis, Craig Henriquez and team members at the Duke Center for
Neuroengineering demonstrate that a monkey can **control a robotic arm using
thought alone** , a major breakthrough in the field of brain-machine
interfaces. In 2014, Nicolelis created a brain-machine exoskeleton that
enabled a paraplegic youth to deliver the opening kick in soccer’s World Cup.

## 2006

David Smith (ECE) and Sir John Pendry of Imperial College, London, introduce
the concept of “transformation optics” as a means of designing **invisibility
cloaks** and other exotic optical structures. Later that year, David Smith,
Steve Cummer and their teams at Duke demonstrate the first working
“invisibility cloak,” using metamaterials to render objects undetectable at
microwave frequencies.

## 2006

With support from the Duke-Coulter Translational Partnership, BME’s Nimmi
Ramanujam brings to market a novel instrument that uses **light waves to
detect cancer** and assess treatment effectiveness in real time. The non-
invasive device is currently in use at several U.S. academic medical centers
and is being adapted for use in resource-limited settings.

## 2008

Lingchong You and BME colleagues engineer a **synthetic predator-prey
ecosystem** using gene circuits. It is considered one of the most influential
studies in the new field of synthetic biology.

## 2010

Mark Wiesner and researchers in CEINT demonstrate that nanomaterials
accumulate in living organisms and can become more concentrated the further up
the food chain they go, revealing the potential **impacts nanotechnology could
have on the environment**.

## 2012

Pratt students working with BME’s Bob Malkin invent the **Pratt Pouch** , a
ketchup-packet-like device to improve storage and delivery of medication to
prevent HIV transmission in low-resource areas. The device, named one of the
World Health Organization’s Top 10 most Innovative Health Technologies for
2012, is now in clinical trials in Zambia and Ecuador.

## 2012

David Brady (ECE) leads development of the **world’s first gigapixel camera**
, which can capture images with unprecedented detail. The scalable array
technology opens the door for vastly increased resolution and field of view in
consumer electronics, broadcast media and security cameras.

## 2014

Steven Cummer (ECE) and his team demonstrate the **first three-dimensional
acoustic cloaking device** , which uses metamaterials to reroute sound waves.

## 2014

Nenad Bursac (BME) creates the **first lab-grown muscle** that can heal itself
after implantation into a living animal. The advance is an important step
toward growing viable muscle for studying diseases and treating injuries.

## 2016

Charles Gersbach (BME) becomes the **first scientist to use CRISPR to
successfully treat a genetic disorder** —Duchenne muscular dystrophy—in a
fully developed living animal with a strategy that has the potential to be
translated to human therapy.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

