

Skip to main content

  * Duke University
  * Pratt School of Engineering

  * Apply Online
  * Visit
  * Contact

__

  * About
    * Is Duke Right for Me?
    * About the MEng Degree at Duke
    * Courses and Curriculum
    * Internship/Project
    * Career Services & Outcomes
    * Options for Current Duke Students
    * Non-Degree Candidates
  * Apply
    * How to Apply
    * Connect With Us
    * Visit Duke
    * Application Requirements
    * Application Deadlines
    * Apply Online
    * Tuition and Financial Aid

__

# Master's Profile: Perry Wang

  * **From:** Corning, New York and Shanghai, China
  * **Undergraduate Degree:** BS in Optical Engineering (Business minor),
    University of Rochester
  * **Duke Master's Program** : Photonics & Optical Sciences

Why did you choose the Photonics Master of Engineering Program at Duke?

I knew that I wanted to pursue an advanced degree to prepare me for more
difficult problems and responsibilities that I may encounter in industry.

For Duke’s Master of Engineering program, in particular, I felt that there was
a lot more opportunity to learn about the different applications of photonics
in the cross-disciplinary context of industry and research. Paired with the
business courses included in the degree, this program looked to be excellent
preparation for improving myself in a more well-rounded way.

The photonics program here is also relatively small, so I knew that I would be
getting strong guidance from world-class professionals.

Plus, I really like living in Durham and the Research Triangle Region. Coming
to Duke has given me a great opportunity to explore a region that I wouldn’t
have otherwise.

> “I knew that I would be getting strong guidance from world-class
> professionals in the field of photonics.”

What are the most important things you've learned about business and
management so far?

After my experiences in my business classes and this program in general, I
have really begun to notice how important the people around you are. This
applies heavily to business and management. It has really made me rethink the
way that I lead and interact with others, which has helped in both my personal
and professional lives.

Tell us about your Master of Engineering internship experience.

For the summer, I worked at Lumedica, right here in Durham, Duke's hometown.

It is a startup building affordable OCT imaging systems to aid in medical
diagnostics. My project was working on a dual-axis system that has improved
imaging depth, allowing it to be used for different applications than typical
OCT systems.

I also did some analysis on a new market that the company is thinking about
pursuing. This was a great chance for me to build my technical skills by
playing a big role in an upcoming project. Meanwhile, the small size of this
company meant I was heavily involved and really learned about the details of
both the design process and the business side of things.

What advice do you have for prospective students?

For students considering the Master of Engineering program, I would suggest
first thinking about what you want out of your next few years personally in
addition to your education and career.

The Master of Engineering program at Duke provides great industry preparation,
but more importantly, it is an excellent overall experience.

If the program aligns with what you want, then I would highly recommend making
the leap forward!

Study Photonics & Optical Sciences at Duke

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __About
      *  __Is Duke Right for Me?
      *  __About the MEng Degree at Duke
      *  __Courses and Curriculum
      *  __Internship/Project
      *  __Career Services & Outcomes
      *  __Options for Current Duke Students
      *  __Non-Degree Candidates
    *  __Apply
      *  __How to Apply
      *  __Connect With Us
      *  __Visit Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
        *  __Uploading a Transcript
        *  __Grade Scale
        *  __Short Answer Essays
        *  __Resume
        *  __Recommendations
        *  __GRE Scores
        *  __English Language Testing
        *  __Application Fee
        *  __Interview/Video Introduction
        *  __Minimum Application Requirements
        *  __International Applicants
        *  __Deposit for Enrolling Students
        *  __Submitting Final Transcripts
      *  __Application Deadlines
      *  __Apply Online
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
  * __Quick Links
    * __Apply Online
    *  __Visit
    *  __Contact

    * 

