Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# Faculty

Filter by Research Area

All Faculty

Applications

Hardware & Software

Theory

AI/Machine Learning

Metamaterials

Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices

Quantum Computing

Sensing & Imaging

Trustworthy Computing

## Chair

### Hai "Helen" Li

Clare Boothe Luce Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Neuromorphic computing systems Machine learning
acceleration and trustworthy AIEmerging memory technologies, circuit and
architecture Low power circuits and systems

## Associate Chair for Educational Programs

### Lisa Gresham Huettel

Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School Professor of the Practice of Electrical and
Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Engineering education, pedagogy and curriculum
development, applications of statistical signal processing

## Primary Faculty

### Tyler K Bletsch

Assistant Professor of the Practice in the Department of Electrical and
Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Software security, robotics, project-oriented education,
and datacenter efficiency

### John A. Board

Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: High performance scientific computing and simulation,
novel computer architectures, cluster computing and parallel processing;
ubiquitous computing.

### Martin A. Brooke

Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Analog, RF, and optoelectronic circuits. Sensor interface
circuits. Deployable sensor systems

### April S. Brown

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

### Kenneth R Brown

Michael J. Fitzpatrick Distinguished Professor of Engineering

Research Interests: Quantum error correction, quantum control, quantum
computer architecture, ion trap quantum computing, and the spectroscopy of
sympathetically cooled molecular ions

### Robert Calderbank

Charles S. Sydnor Distinguished Professor of Computer Science

### Lawrence Carin

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Applied statistics and machine learning

### Tingjun Chen

Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Wireless networking, next-generation wireless and optical
networks, edge cloud and computing, Internet-of-Things (IoT), mobile and
embedded systems, platforms and testbeds

### Yiran Chen

Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Emerging memory and storage technologies Embedded systems,
CPS, edge computing, and mobile applications Neuromorphic computing, deep
learning and system security Low power circuit and system

### Leslie M. Collins

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Physics-based machine learning algorithms for big data,
including developing remediation strategies for the hearing impaired and
sensor-based algorithms for the detection of hazardous buried objects

### Steven A. Cummer

William H. Younger Distinguished Professor of Engineering

Research Interests: Theoretical and experimental electromagnetic problems
related to geophysical remote sensing and engineered electromagnetic
materials.

### Mary "Missy" Cummings

Adjunct Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Human-unmanned vehicle interaction, human-autonomous
system collaboration, human-systems engineering, public policy implications of
unmanned vehicles, and the ethical and social impact of technology.

### Shaundra Daily

Professor of Practice in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Identity-inclusive computing, Human-centered design &
engineering, justice-centered STEM education

### Ingrid Daubechies

James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Mathematics and Electrical and
Computer Engineering

### Richard B. Fair

Lord-Chandran Distinguished Professor of Engineering

Research Interests: Microfluidic systems for lab-on-a-chip applications based
on electrowetting technology

### Aaron D. Franklin

Addy Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Nanomaterials in electronic devices, nanofabrication,
printed electronics and internet of things (IoT), biosensing

### Michael E. Gehm

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Primarily computational and compressive sensing and
measurement in all modalities (with special emphasis in
Electromagnetic/Optical from RF to x-ray and all forms of Mass spectrometry),
with side interests in optical physics, high-performance x-ray simulation, and
rapid-…

### Jeffrey Glass

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Electronic materials and the associated
devices/instruments improved by these materials, especially electrode
applications in miniature mass spectrometry, energy conversion and storage and
liquid waste disinfection for developing regions. Electrochemical measurements
and…

### Neil Gong

Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Security, privacy, and machine learning.

### Maria Gorlatova

Nortel Networks Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Architectures, algorithms, and protocols for emerging
mobile pervasive systems and the Internet of Things. Our work crosses
traditional discipline boundaries and requires thinking across multiple layers
of system and protocol stacks. We are focusing on breaking the barriers for…

### Michael Richard Gustafson II

Associate Professor of the Practice of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Computational methods for image analysis and information
extraction, discrete event simulations, curriculum development and deployment

### Andrew Douglas Hilton

Professor of the Practice in the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering

Research Interests: Computer architecture, specifically architectural support
for security and energy-efficient performance

### William T. Joines

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Electromagnetic field and wave interactions with materials
and structures

### Nan Marie Jokerst

J. A. Jones Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

### Jungsang Kim

Schiciano Family Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer
Engineering

Research Interests: Quantum Computing with Trapped Ions, Quantum Information
Science, Novel Photonic Devices, Application of Quantum Computers

### Jeffrey L. Krolik

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Physics-based and statistical signal processing, sensor
array processing, radar and sonar systems, pervasive distributed processing

### Xin Li

Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Integrated circuits, signal processing and data analytics

### Genevieve Lipp

Assistant Professor of the Practice in the Department of Electrical and
Computer Engineering

### Natalia Litchinitser

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Nanophotonics; Photonic Metamaterials; Nonlinear Optics;
Fiber Optics; Photonic Crystal Fibers

### Qing Huo Liu

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Computational electromagnetics and acoustics; inverse
problems, and their application in geophysics, nanophotonics, and biomedical
imaging

### Jerome Peter Lynch

Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Prof. Lynch's research interests are in advancing cyber-
physical system architectures that combine sensing, computing, and control to
create intelligent civil infrastructure systems. He is best known for his
research portfolio in structural health monitoring (SHM) that allow…

### Iman Marvian

Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Quantum information and computation theory

### Hisham Z. Massoud

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Ultrathin gate dielectrics for CMOS ULSI – the technology,
physics, modeling, simulation, and characterization of ultrathin-oxide MOSFETs

### Maiken Mikkelsen

James N. and Elizabeth H. Barton Associate Professor of Electrical and
Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Quantum nanophotonics, plasmonics, light-matter
interactions in artificially structured nanoscale materials, hybrid molecular-
scale materials and spin phenomena in the solid state

### Christopher R Monroe

Gilhuly Family Presidential Distinguished Professor

Research Interests: quantum physics, applications in quantum information
science

### Crystal Noel

Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Quantum computing and simulation with trapped ions,
integrated photonics for scalable trapped ion systems, and electric-field
noise from surfaces

### Loren W. Nolte

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Bayesian approach to signal detection, classification,
estimation, tracking and decision and sensor fusion. Applications in ocean
acoustics, and in medical imaging for cancer research.

### Douglas Nowacek

Randolph K. Repass and Sally-Christine Rodgers University Distinguished
Professor of Conservation Technology in Environment and Engineering

Research Interests: Marine mammal behavioral and acoustic ecologyOcean
noiseOffshore renewable energy

### Willie John Padilla

Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Theoretical and experimental investigation of
electromagnetic metamaterials and metasurfaces, and their application to
imaging and sensing at microwave, terahertz, and infrared frequencies

### Miroslav Pajic

Dickinson Family Associate Professor

Research Interests: Design and analysis of autonomous cyber-physical systems
(CPS), and in particular, embedded systems, AI, learning and controls, CPS
security and high-assurance autonomy, with various application domains
including robotics, automotive, and medical systems

### Jian Pei

Professor of Computer Science

### Henry Pfister

Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Information theory, communications, probabilistic
graphical models, machine learning, and deep neural networks

### Galen Reeves

Associate Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Information theory, high-dimensional statistical
inference, statistical signal processing, compressed sensing, machine learning

### Michael Reiter

James B. Duke Distinguished Professor

Research Interests: Prof. Reiter's research interests include all areas of
computer and communications security, fault-tolerant distributed computing,
and applied cryptography.

### Christ D Richmond

Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

### Tania Roy

Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Neuromorphic computing • high-energy electronics

### Cynthia D. Rudin

Earl D. McLean, Jr. Professor

### Guillermo Sapiro

James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Image and video processing, computer vision, computer
graphics, computational vision, biomedical imaging, brain imaging, cryo-
tomography of viruses, computational tools in cryo-tomography, computational
tools in early diagnosis of psychiatric disorders, differential geometry and…

### David R. Smith

James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Theory, simulation and demonstration of novel
electromagnetic metamaterials across the spectrum, from microwave through
optical. Applications of metamaterials for antennas and imaging devices, with
a focus on security imaging and satellite imaging. General studies on
advanced…

### Daniel J. Sorin

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Computer architecture, designing microarchitectures so
that they are easier to verify, improving computer system fault tolerance,
developing memory systems for multicore processors, and designing special-
purpose accelerators

### Adrienne Stiff-Roberts

Jeffrey N. Vinik Professor

Research Interests: Thin-film deposition, MAPLE, hybrid perovskites, hybrid
nanocomposites, organic thin films

### Stacy L. Tantum

Associate Professor of the Practice in the Department of Electrical and
Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Signal detection and estimation theory, statistical signal
processing, pattern recognition and machine learning, remote sensing, matched-
field processing, and ocean acoustics

### Vahid Tarokh

Rhodes Family Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Foundations of AI, Foundations of Signal Processing,
Learning Representations, Transfer Learning, Meta-Learning, Physics Infused
Learning, Extreme Value Theory, Dependence Modeling, Hypothesis Testing,
Sequential Analysis.

### Kishor S. Trivedi

Hudson Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Markov models, Fault trees, Stochastic Petri nets,
Reliability Modeling, Availability Modeling, Performability modeling,
Survivability modeling, Cyber Security, Software reliability, Software Fault
Tolerance, Software Aging and Rejuvenation

### Lisa Wills

Clare Boothe Luce Assistant Professor of Computer Science and Electrical and
Computer Engineering

Research Interests: I enjoy solving difficult problems surrounding
computations with the goal to process large volumes of data efficiently. My
research interests include computer architecture and microarchitecture,
hardware-software co-designs, accelerators, and emerging application domains
―…

### Rabih Younes

Assistant Professor of the Practice in the Department of Electrical and
Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Wearable computing, activity recognition, context
awareness, machine learning, artificial intelligence, engineering education,
and Middle Eastern politics

## Secondary Faculty

### Ehsan Abadi

Assistant Professor in Radiology

### David Carlson

Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Machine learning, predictive modeling, health data
science, statistical neuroscience

### Boyuan Chen

Assistant Professor in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering
and Materials Science

Research Interests: Robotics, computer vision, machine learning, AI for
science

### Stefano Curtarolo

Edmund T. Pratt Jr. School Distinguished Professor of Mechanical Engineering
and Materials Science

Research Interests: Artificial Intelligence Materials Science; Autonomous
Materials Design; Computational materials science; High-Entropy Disordered
Systems; Materials for Energy Applications; Materials for Aerospace
Applications. Prof. Curtarolo multidisciplinary research makes use of state-
of-the…

### Dean F Darnell

Assistant Professor in Radiology

### Bruce Randall Donald

James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Computer Science

### Jessilyn Dunn

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Use of large-scale biomedical datasets to model and guide
personalized therapies.

### Pardis Emami-Naeini

Assistant Professor of Computer Science

### Sina Farsiu

Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Focused on medical imaging and machine learning to improve
the overall health and vision outcome of patients with ocular and neurological
diseases (e.g., age-related macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathy,
Alzheimer, and ALS) through earlier and personalized therapy.

### Gleb Finkelstein

Professor of Physics

Research Interests: My main research topic is the study of the coexistence of
superconductivity and the quantum Hall effect. The highlights of this work
include: the first observation of a superconducting current induced in the
regime of the quantum Hall effect [F. Amet et al., Science 352, 966,…

### Yiyang Gong

Assistant Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Recording and understanding brain activity by developing
novel combinations of optical microscopy and genetically encoded sensors.
Using these technologies, we wish to dissect neural circuit function and
investigate how neural activity drives complex behaviors.

### Warren M. Grill

Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Neural engineering and neural prostheses and include
design and testing of electrodes and stimulation techniques, the electrical
properties of tissues and cells, and computational neuroscience with
applications in restoration of bladder function, treatment of movement
disorders…

### Ricardo Henao

Associate Professor in Biostatistics & Bioinformatics

### Roarke Horstmeyer

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Computational optics, machine learning, and designing new
algorithms for image processing. A main focus is to improve how we capture and
use images of microscopic phenomena within a range of biomedical contexts. In
general, I like to create new optical devices that can improve…

### Tony Jun Huang

William Bevan Distinguished Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science

Research Interests: Acoustofluidics, microfluidics, lab-on-a-chip, biomedical
micro-electro-mechanical systems (BioMEMS), optofluidics, plasmofluidics.

### Joseph A. Izatt

Michael J. Fitzpatrick Distinguished Professor of Engineering

Research Interests: Biomedical optics and spectroscopy, coherence-based
imaging and microscopy, novel instrumentation for minimally invasive medical
diagnostics, and real-time image-guided robotic microsurgery.

### Kyle Jon Lafata

Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology

Research Interests: Biomedical imaging, image processing, computer vision,
computational pathology, applied analysis of stochastic differential
equations, high dimensional data analysis, feature engineering, adaptive
imaging, multi-scale data fusion, Uncertainty Quantification

### Alvin R. Lebeck

Professor of Computer Science

### Joseph Yuan-Chieh Lo

Professor in Radiology

### Bruce Maggs

Pelham Wilder Distinguished Professor of Computer Science

### Maciej A Mazurowski

Associate Professor in Radiology

### Felipe Medeiros

Joseph A.C. Wadsworth Distinguished Professor of Ophthalmology

### John Pearson

Assistant Professor of Neurobiology

### Angel V Peterchev

Associate Professor in Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences

### John H. Reif

A. Hollis Edens Distinguished Professor of Computer Science

### Ehsan Samei

Reed and Martha Rice Distinguished Professor of Radiology

### Yun Wang

Assistant Professor in Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences

### Jiaming Xu

Associate Professor of Business Administration

Research Interests: Network science, machine learning, high-dimensional
statistical inference, information theory, optimization, stochastic systems,
game theory, communications and networking

### Xiaowei Yang

Associate Professor of Computer Science

### Michael Zavlanos

Yoh Family Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Control theory, optimization, and learning; in particular,
robotics and autonomous systems, networked and distributed control systems,
and cyber-physical systems.

## Research Faculty

### Jason Amsden

Associate Research Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering

Research Interests: My area of interest is in the application of computational
and compressive techniques to improve spectroscopic instrument design.
Spectroscopic measurements are a convolution of the instrument response and
the desired spectrum. Conventional spectroscopic instruments are designed…

### Kyle Bradbury

Assistant Research Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering

### Juan Matias Di Martino

Assistant Research Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering

### Joel Alter Greenberg

Associate Research Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering

Research Interests: Computational sensing with a focus on novel, physics-based
measurement techniques for practical applications. Primarily focused in the
electromagnetic/optical spectrum ranging from ELF through visible and hard
X-rays, with applications to security, non-destructive testing, and…

### Sonia Grego

Associate Research Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering

### Alexander Y. Kozhanov

Associate Research Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering

### Paolo F Maccarini

Assistant Research Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering

### Boyla Octavie Mainsah

Assistant Research Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering

### Jordan Milton Malof

Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering

Research Interests: Application of advanced machine learning and computer
vision techniques to real-world problems

### Brian R. Stoner

Research Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

## Adjunct Faculty

### Jeffrey Derby

Adjunct Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

### Adel F Fahmy

Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering

### Farshad Firouzi

Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering

### John Charles Goss

Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering

### Jay Lawrence Hineman

Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering

### Mary Knox

Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering

### Nathan Kundtz

Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

### Benjamin C Lee

Adjunct Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Computer architecture and systems, energy efficiency,
performance modeling, and algorithmic economics for resource management;
policy for environmentally sustainable information technology infrastructure

### James Morizio

Adjunct Associate Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering

Research Interests: Mixed-Signal CMOS circuit design, layout and testing
Bioelectronic circuits for wireless neural interfaces: Recording and
Stimulation Sigma Delta ADC and DACs architecture and circuit design
Ultrasound Pre-Amplifier and multiplexing Liquid Crystal on Silicon (LCOS)
Pixel driver…

### Joe X Qiu

Adjunct Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

### Andrew Rindos

Adjunct Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

### Brian M Rogers

Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering

### Evan Runnerstrom

Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering

### Patrick Wang

Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering

### Blake Shaw Wilson

Adjunct Professor in the Department of Head and Neck Surgery & Communication
Sciences

## Entrepreneur in Residence

### Vamsee K Pamula

Research Interests: Development of inexpensive and accessible newborn
screening and pediatric diagnostic products

## Emeritus Faculty

### David J. Brady

Michael J. Fitzpatrick Distinguished Professor Emeritus of Photonics

Research Interests: Professor Brady's research focuses on "smart cameras"
which use artificial intelligence to increase the amount of visual information
captured and to render this information useful. In 2012 his group built the
world's first gigapixel camera, his work today focuses on making…

### H. Craig Casey

Professor Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering

### Peter N. Marinos

Professor Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering

## Podcast

Listen to a new podcast from Duke Engineering, dedicated to the ingenious ways
that engineers are solving society's toughest problems.

Listen & subscribe

  

## Ask an Expert: Duke ECE Research »

## News from Duke ECE

March 07, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Putting the SE Back in Silicon Electronics

February 28, 2023 | **_Duke Today_**

### Is the Artificial Intelligence Boom a 'Runaway Train'?

February 22, 2023 | **_The Chronicle_**

### Sydney Hunt of Duke ECE Among Duke Young Trustee Finalists

View all news

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

