Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# Undergraduate Study in Electrical & Computer Engineering

Become a creative engineer, inspired and equipped to make an impact

What does tomorrow’s engineer need to know? At Duke Electrical & Computer
Engineering, we’ve thought hard about this question. From your very first
semester at Duke, our signature educational experience will immerse you in:

  * Hands-on design
  * Data science
  * Computing
  * Research
  * Entrepreneurship

At Duke ECE, we are preparing creative engineers who are inspired and equipped
to solve complex societal problems.

* * *

## CUSTOMIZE YOUR DEGREE

We provide more opportunities and are more flexible and less restrictive than
many other ECE programs in the United States. Students use this flexibility to
expand their horizons and explore personal interests more deeply.

What is the difference between computer engineering and computer science? »

### Areas of Concentration

Duke ECE undergraduate students pursue their interests in five areas of
concentration:

  * Computer Engineering and Digital Systems
  * Signal Processing, Communications and Control Systems
  * Solid-State Devices and Integrated Circuits
  * Electromagnetic Fields
  * Photonics

### In-Depth Pathway: Machine Learning

Plus, students who elect to complete a more in-depth pathway can earn a
**Concentration in Machine Learning** designation on their transcript.

* * *

## HIGHLY RANKED

**#3** in U.S. faculty research productivity in computer engineering

**Top 25** U.S. undergraduate Computer Engineering program

**94%** of recent Duke ECE graduates accepted jobs or had job offers at
graduation ( _National comparison: 85%_ )

_Sources: Academic Analytics, US. News & World Report, Duke ECE Class of 2020
survey. (Class of 2021 survey is delayed.)_

MORe Duke ECE Facts

* * *

## We'll Make You a Programmer

Each study track emphasizes the acquisition, processing, control,
transmission, and application of information and energy by what are
fundamentally electrical or electromagnetic means.

All the tracks include **high-level computer languages** (software), which
facilitate the convenient and efficient application of technology (hardware)
to the solution of useful problems.

* * *

## APPLY NOW

Click to see deadlines and application instructions:

APPLY TO DUKE

* * *

## Program Educational Objectives

Our goal is to graduate electrical and computer engineers who embody
excellence in a broad sense. We expect our graduates to advance within
industry positions or in graduate study, or to carry the attributes of an
engineering education into other disciplines.

The electrical and computer engineering program of study must include
mathematics and basic sciences, fundamentals and applications in several
engineering sciences, and team-based experience in the process of design,
where theory is applied in the context of real needs and limitations, and
where judgment must be exercised.

Our electrical and computer engineering graduates should be able to think
critically when solving problems and managing tasks and communicate
effectively in multidisciplinary professional environments.

To be a responsible member of the engineering profession, each graduate must
be aware of social, ethical, environmental and economic factors and
constraints on engineering activity, and must understand the importance of
these matters in a global context.

We aspire to have our graduates exhibit intellectual depth and creativity,
uphold high ethical standards, and show a commitment to the betterment of
society through service and professional work.

The specific program educational objectives that we look for in our graduates
are that they:

  * Advance professionally in their chosen field
  * Contribute to their professional community and to society
  * Engage in lifelong learning in professional and personal endeavors

* * *

## Student Learning Outcomes

Our students will have the following capabilities upon completion of their
degrees:

  * An ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems
    by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics
  * An ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet
    specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare,
    as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors
  * An ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences
  * An ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in
    engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider
    the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental,
    and societal contexts
  * An ability to function effectively on a team whose members together
    provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment,
    establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives
  * An ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and
    interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions
  * An ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate
    learning strategies

* * *

## Explore Duke

******Compare degrees& certificates**

**Learn ECE details for applicants**

**Explore student opportunities**

**Meet Our Faculty**

**View enrollment and graduation rates**

## ABET Accreditation

Our programs are accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of
ABET.

  

## Ask an Expert: Duke ECE Research »

## Undergraduate Contact

### Lisa Gresham Huettel

Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School Professor of the Practice of Electrical and
Computer Engineering

__919-660-5237

__lisa.huettel@duke.edu

## News from Duke ECE

March 07, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Putting the SE Back in Silicon Electronics

February 28, 2023 | **_Duke Today_**

### Is the Artificial Intelligence Boom a 'Runaway Train'?

February 22, 2023 | **_The Chronicle_**

### Sydney Hunt of Duke ECE Among Duke Young Trustee Finalists

View all news

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

