

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2016

# Piloting Drones into the Future

April 27, 2016 | Amy Vitha

Mary (Missy) Cummings, professor of mechanical engineering and materials
science, takes extraordinary to a new level.

Engineering is more than just a series of cumbersome problem sets. It is the
quest to discover the unknown. Engineers jump at the opportunity to tackle a
problem and explore feasible solutions. Frequently, their efforts result in
extraordinary, revolutionary findings.

Mary (Missy) Cummings, professor of mechanical engineering and materials
science, takes extraordinary to a new level. A pioneer in the field of drone
research, Cummings has become an expert on everyone's favorite Unmanned Aerial
Vehicle (UAV).

After becoming one of the first female fighter pilots in the United States
Navy, Cummings left the force in 1999 to pursue other interests, namely
research. Her experiences as a fighter pilot motivated her to improve the
methods used to fly military planes. Her drive stems from the fact that she
has witnessed multiple instances where pilots put their lives in danger simply
by not being aware of their surroundings.

In beginning to find a solution to this problem, Cummings searched for the
roots of the issue.

"It was clear to me that the planes were being designed not with the human in
mind," said Cummings, noting that in many cases, it becomes difficult for
engineers to master both physical design and have a thorough understanding of
human cognitive strength and limitations.

Consequently, the human element often becomes secondary to the electrical and
mechanical design of aircraft systems. For example, Cummings says that it was
a bragging point for fighter pilots that Lockheed Martin says it takes 1.7
individuals to fly a plane, which demonstrates how human capability is
sometimes exceeded in this field.

Such conclusions inspired Cummings to delve into the feasibility of UAVs and
landed her in the role of directing the Humans and Autonomy Lab at Duke, where
she studies the interactions of humans and computer decision-making. Cummings
initially faced incredible adversity for promoting the notion of UAVs, but she
persevered nonetheless. Her research surprisingly led her to the insight that
drones could be built without monumental technological discoveries— that their
real limitation is not the design of the aircraft but the design of the ground
control stations.

In 1990, drones made their debut in American military missions. Since then,
they have been used in various capacities including President Barack Obama's
"drone war" targeting terrorists and militants. This application of the
technology, however, has been the centerpiece of intense debate in American
society. Though drones add innumerable advantages to counterterrorism efforts,
the ability to have them controlled remotely has heightened concerns of
privacy violations extending beyond the realm of the military.

Outside the operations of the military, the future may already be here.

"The number of drones in the civilian world will eclipse the number in the
military," said Cummings. "If it hasn't already."

This is most prominently shown by the push many large companies are initiating
to begin the widespread commercialization of drones, including Amazon, Google
and Walmart. All three companies joined the drone delivery race hoping to
incorporate drones into their regular shipping methods in the near future. The
result of this application could be ground-breaking in terms of shipping/
delivery methods. If implemented to predicted efficiency, it has been reported
that Amazon could deliver a package 30 minutes or less after placing an order
online.

The other emerging question of UAV application addresses when we are going to
see airplanes with automated pilots. As far as commercial airlines flying
pilotless, Cummings reports that it is unlikely to happen. She adds that
whenever there is a group of people together in one place, they will need
someone who is in charge of leading everyone. In the case of a commercial
airline, the pilot fills that role.

But military planes are a different story. According to Cummings, the troop
leader on board assumes the role of leading the passengers, and therefore no
pilot is necessary. Consequently, the military is trying to achieve troop
transport with no pilot. Concern still lies in the security of this means of
transport as well as the reliability of the electronic systems that transmit
and receive data, but accomplishing this would be a revolutionary step for the
military.

Another major concern associated with the streamlining of UAVs into our daily
lives is the question of who is operating them. Cummings agrees that a major
concern for manufacturers is thatthey must remember that a drone pilot does
not have the same training or flying experience as a real pilot. She says they
are actually more similar to a video game operator, and manufacturers should
implement additional technology to minimize the risk of crashing. After all,
it could be difficult to keep a drone from crashing thousands of miles away
from where its operator is located.

Regardless of the above concerns, Cummings continues to reap the benefits of
all of the applications that drones can be applied to. Her most impactful
project at the moment involves an elephant tracking drone system. With a proof
of concept demonstration completed in Africa, the drones make it cheap and
easy to monitor elephants' safety, health and activity in the wild.

Admirably, Cummings has accomplished every researcher's dream. She has seen
her research advance from preliminary inquiries to discussions of
commercialization. Now she is moving on to tackle other technological riddles.

Cummings is starting research on self-driving cars, as well as undertaking the
task of turning the copilot of a two-person cockpit into a robot. She is
working on creating an R2-D2-type machine that, when placed in the seat of any
type of aircraft, will know how to execute a mission.

This project has undeniable potential since, in the words of Cummings herself,
"The computer is a better pilot than man or woman when it comes to the actual
skill of flying a plane. But humans still reign supreme when it comes to
solving complex problems under significant uncertainty."

_Amy Vitha is a sophomore majoring in mechanical engineering._

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2016

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

