

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2016

# Students Tackle the Grand Challenges: Medicines, Neurons and Infrastructure

April 27, 2016 | Ashish Vankara

With a total of 25 students currently enrolled in the Grand Challenge Scholars
Program, many exciting projects are in the works.

Nearly a decade ago, the National Academy of Engineering (NAE) created a list
of pressing concerns for humanity to address in the next 100 years— ambitious
goals such as reverse-engineering the brain, making solar energy economical,
securing cyberspace and providing access to clean water for the 1 billion who
currently lack it. These 14 goals became known as the Grand Challenges for
Engineering and have served as a guiding force to many engineering questions.
Even President Obama picked up on the call to arms, encouraging all
philanthropists and institutions to pursue these challenges in his _Strategy
for American Innovation_.

In line with this vision, Tom Katsouleas, at the time dean of Duke
University's Pratt School of Engineering; Richard Miller, president of the
Franklin W. Olin College of Engineering; and Yannis Yortsos, dean of the
University of Southern California's Viterbi School of Engineering, in 2009
proposed a new educational model to prepare engineers to address these
challenges that has become known as the Grand Challenge Scholars Program
(GCS). The program was launched and endorsed by the NAE, and in 2015,
Katsouleas and colleagues led a charge that resulted in a quarter of the
nation's engineering deans—representing 122 schools—signing a letter of
commitment pledging to establish similar programs at their institutions. The
letter was presented to President Obama at the White House in March 2015.

Students apply to the GCS program at the end of their sophomore year. If they
are selected, they embark on their journey of integrating research,
interdisciplinary ideas, innovation and service into their education. At Duke,
these students are also given access to $5,000 in funding to complete their
project.

Today, the program at Duke—now known as the Thomas C. Katsouleas NAE Grand
Challenge Scholars Program—has graduated 73 Grand Challenge Scholars. Each
year, an endowment created by Susie Simon in honor of her late husband Steve
Simon, former chair of the Board of Visitors for Pratt, supports 10 "Simon
Scholars" in the program. And with a total of 25 students currently enrolled
in the Grand Challenge Scholars Program, many exciting projects are in the
works.

Here are some of our graduating Grand Challenge Scholars.

## ****Hannah Vaughan: Engineering Better Medicines

Hannah Vaughan is a senior majoring in biomedical engineering who is working
on improving drug development through tissue engineering in the laboratory of
George Truskey, the R. Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Professor of Biomedical
Engineering and interim dean of the Pratt School of Engineering. Hannah’s
involvement in the GCS program has laid the foundations for her career in
research, and she intends to matriculate to graduate school this coming year.

For a particular drug to be introduced into the market, it must be tested
extensively to ensure the safety of its users. The normal process for drug
testing includes a combinationof preclinical animal trials and clinical trials
with humans. Many clinical trials fail, however, due to the differences
between animals and humans.

The Tissue Chip Project addresses this problem through the engineering of
living tissues outside of the human body, hence the term “tissue chip.” In
conjunction with this project, Hannah’s research focuses on inducing injury on
these 3D-engineered blood vessels and studying the inner lining, known as the
endothelial layer.

Endothelial dysfunction inhibits its job of controlling clotting. Various
vascular diseases and injuries can be attributed to or result in endothelial
dysfunction. A study of vascular injury on engineered tissue outside of the
body enables researchers to betterunderstand the mechanisms occurring, thereby
allowing them to devise novel drug-testing methods.

Oxidative stress, one of Hannah’s focuses, is thought to cause premature aging
of endothelial cells. By simulating this stress in ordinary vessels, Hannah
and her colleagues were able to model regions that were prone to
atherosclerosis. Mechanical injury, when combined with vascular disease, has
been shown to prolong endothelial dysfunction. Hannah devised a mechanical
injury model to study endothelial dysfunction in cultured cells. Lastly, she
designed a blood vessel matrix from a stronger material known as fibrin. This
has allowed researchers to expand the types of cells in these types of
experiments.

## ****Yitaek Hwang: Engineering Better Medicines

Yitaek Hwang is a senior double majoring in biomedical engineering and
electrical and computer engineering. His project addresses the “engineering
better medicines” Grand Challenge.

According to the website ViFlex, approximately 700 million people in
developing countries cannot obtain glasses, resulting in more than $200
billion in lost economic output annually. In developing countries, the price
of glasses for citizens is too high and there are too few optometrists
available to prescribe them.

To combat this shortfall, Yitaek and the start-up company ViFlex have
developed innovative, adjustable, low-cost glasses that can be distributed in
areas in need. He also plans to develop an inexpensive prototype for a device
that can prescribe vision correction and is currently researching optic theory
and image processing to create this diagnostic device.

## Noura Von Briesen: Improving Urban Infrastructure

Noura Von Briesen is a senior majoring in civil and environmental engineering.
Her project seeks to find ways to counter the negative socioeconomic effects
of urban development.

Although urban development projects bring in money and jobs, they can also
cause various detrimental effects. For instance, a highway project through an
urban district can often induce those who can afford to move away to do so.
This removes money and stability from the community, leaving those who cannot
afford to move away in an ever-poorer environment without the means to improve
their situation. This phenomenon can give rise to poor communi-ties with low
graduation rates and high crime rates.

Similarly, if a shopping complex is being built, property values nearby tend
to increase, and only those who own their homes or can sustain the rent
increase can afford to stay. This process is known as gentrification. Within
the Durham community, gentrification is occurring as land is developed,
displacing economically disadvantaged residents. There are countless other
potential negative effects of urban development, and Noura is shaping her
career goals to address these issues.

Noura’s studies focus on remedying gentrification and residential segregation.
Her research involves analyzingpolitical entities in relation to their
influence in these urban areas. To date, she has concluded that communities
must encourage citizens to live in higher-density housing in the city and help
raise graduation rates by integrating inner-city school districts with
suburban districts.

To supplement her research in urban development, Noura has also traveled on a
Duke Engineers for International Development trip, where she assisted in
designing and building a bridge for a secluded community in Base, Rwanada.
There, she witnessed firsthand the fruits of development such as increased
access to water, schools and medical care.

## ****Minyoung Ryoo: Reverse-Engineering the Brain

Minyoung Ryoo, a current senior in the laboratory of Marc Sommer, associate
professor of biomedical engineering, is researching the computational and
neural basis of decision- making. Her main focus of study centers on a
particular aspect of decision-making known as heuristics.

Heuristic techniques are employed in times of stress when an individual needs
to make a decision with limited time and/or understanding. The process of
prioritizing various pockets of information over others is known as
satisficing.

To simulate this phenomenon, Minyoung and her team designed an experiment with
visual stimuli that constantly vary by shape, color, border color and
orientation. With each variable weighted differently, rhesus monkeys watched
the display and were rewardedfor choosing the correct cues while researchers
recorded their neural output.

From the resulting data, Minyoung and her team concluded that the rhesus
monkeys behaved as if they could only employ three characteristics of the
stimuli at a time while making decisions, as opposed to humans who can use
more than four. They also found that the monkeys did not practice satisficing
or heuristic techniques, unlike humans who drop the worst cue when pressure
increases.

This experiment has enabled the lab group to further our understanding of
decision-making. Minyoung intends to employ this experience by working for a
biotechnology company after graduation.

## The Road Ahead

The Grand Challenge Scholars Program has helped direct the creative innovation
of Duke’s students and faculty toward today’s most pressing problems. In just
a few years, great progress has been made. Groundbreaking research is
happening every day at Pratt and other research institutions. Before long, the
Grand Challenge Scholars of today will join mankind’s quest for betterment and
work to broaden the frontier of understanding.

_Ashish Vankara is a freshman on the pre-medicine track majoring in biomedical
engineering._

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2016

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

