

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2016

# John Oxaal: Duke BME’s Entrepreneur-in-Residence

April 27, 2016 | Martin Li

John Oxaal has worked on a variety of projects and products in the
entrepreneurial space, including the first real-time 3-D ultrasound machine
with BME professor Olaf Von Ramm.

John Oxaal has worked on a variety of projects and products in the
entrepreneurial space. After graduating from Duke, Oxaal got his first
opportunity from Olaf von Ramm, professor of biomedical engineering at Duke
University, who invited him to work on a real-time 2-D ultrasound machine.
Realizing he needed more business knowledge, Oxaal pursued a business degree
from the University of Chicago. This helped him found Volumetrics Medical
Imaging, Inc. with Professor von Ramm, which developed the first real-time 3-D
ultrasound machine.

After the success, Oxaal joined Sevin Rosen funds, where he remains today, and
focuses in areas such as imaging, computing, photonics, RF communications and
semiconductors.

## Lessons from Experience

As an entrepreneur, venture capitalist and board member of various companies,
Oxaal has a breadth of knowledge with innovation and startup culture. He has
learned that while one may often have a great idea for a product to compete
with existing companies, there are several barriers that one must first
overcome.

Oxaal isolates three main criteria when giving the green light to invest in a
company and its product. Does the product meet the demand of the market? Is
the market for the product large enough? How will the company compete for
market share?

Oxaal landed on these criteria through years of trials and tribulations. For
example, Oxaal once invested in a storage processor that was twice as fast,
consumed 15 percent of the power and cost about 70 percent less than any other
processor that was on the market. While on paper this product seemed extremely
viable, in the market, sales were vastly disappointing.

After a market research project, Oxaal’s team discovered that consumers were
more interested in the durability, the reparability and the software
compatibility of the product rather than raw performance. While their product
was arguably better, it failed to meet the demands of the market.

## Lessons from Google Earth

Experiences like these will help Oxaal in his role as entrepreneur- in-
residence, which involves giving advice to potential entrepreneurs at Duke.
But Oxaal has also learned a great deal from others.

A former colleague of Oxaal’s, Chikai Ohazama, emphasized that one needs an
idea of how technology will evolve and use that knowledge to develop a profit
model. His foresight brought the world to everyone’s fingertips.

Ohazama realized that semiconductor technology would likely advance from
extremely expensive and bulky machines into more compact models that could
easily fit into someone’s pocket. He later cofounded Keyhole, Inc., which was
subsequently bought by Google.

You know Keyhole, Inc. better as Google Earth. Google Earth, while
computationally intensive, can be accessed using the powerful chips today on
smartphones, proving Ohazama’s foresight accurate.

## Lessons for the Future

Oxaal believes that the recent advances in the biomedical fields—such as the
increased understanding of the genome, advances in biochemistry and data
applications combined with engineering—are vast fields yet to be explored.

The future lies in a wide variety of medical devices and applications that can
be developed to improve the efficiency of patient care. And according to
Oxaal, “Duke is well-positioned to reap the great reward” in biomedical
technologies. For example, with the increased power of smartphones, doctors
can get vital signs wirelessly rather than looking at a chart at the foot of a
patient’s bed.

Oxaal notes that the process of starting and developing a company has gotten
significantly easier since the advent of computers. Operating expenses are
constantly reduced, computational processing speeds up the production of
manuscripts, and the internet allows for greater information exchange and
easier advertising.

But while there may be more people working in new areas of technology, its
enormous boom over the past two decades provides a giant increase in base
technology that hasn’t been fully explored. According to Oxaal, “It’s the
equivalent of finding a whole new continent.”

One example is silicon photonics—one of Oxaal’s favorite fields. Silicon
photonics describes silicon chips that can manipulate light. While silicon
chips generally work on electrons, using photons within these chips allows
them to be much faster.

## Parting Words

One final word of wisdom from Oxaal: “Measure twice and cut once. Before you
invest years of your life pursuing a particular idea, do a mental experiment
and figure out whether the market’s big enough, whether you have the
competitive advantage to sustain, and whether you meet the needs of the market
before you spend a long time pursuing a certain thing.”

_Martin Li is a first year Pratt student and a projected biomedical
engineering and electrical and computer engineering double major_

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2016

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

