Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Cate Brinson

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About

An internationally recognized expert in soft matter, Brinson is the Donald M.
Alstadt Chair of Duke's Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering and
Materials Science (MEMS)

Cate Brinson

She joined Duke in 2017 as the Sharon C. and Harold L. Yoh, III Professor in
MEMS, and became department chair on June 1, 2019. Brinson brought extensive
experience in academic leadership to the chair, including serving as associate
dean for academic and professional initiatives in engineering and as
department chair of mechanical engineering at Northwestern University.

Brinson’s research combines computational models, data science and physical
experiments to lay the groundwork for developing new materials for
applications ranging from cell phones to biomedical devices.

She has won numerous awards, including the Society of Engineering Science 2022
A.C. Eringen Medal, ASME Nadai Medal and the Humboldt Foundation Friedrich
Wilhelm Bessel Prize, and is currently the PI of the NanoMetaMine project, a
$5-million NSF-funded national consortium focused on building a data-driven
framework for the discovery of new polymer nanocomposites and structural
metamaterials. She is also the PI of the $3-million NSF-funded aiM-NRT "AI for
Understanding and Designing Materials (aiM)/National Research Traineeship
Program (NRT)." This new graduate training program will provide PhD students
with integrated training for both materials and computer scientists to advance
the frontiers of research and training in this new convergent field.

Prior to joining Duke, Brinson served as associate dean for academic and
professional initiatives at Northwestern University’s McCormick School of
Engineering, where she coordinated the development and promotion of a diverse
array of research centers and consolidated leadership of eight professional
master’s programs.

She previously served for six years as chair of Northwestern’s Department of
Mechanical Engineering, where she led the department through growth in faculty
and research expenditures, started a now-flourishing departmental master’s
program, promoted design curriculum across the school, and led development for
the first endowed lecture in the ME department.

  * Browse her faculty profile »
  * Read an article about Cate Brinson »
  * Listen to a podcast, "In the Kitchen with NanoMine" »
  * Visit the Brinson Research Group »
  * More about Duke MEMS »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

