Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About

Our DEIC committee meets twice each month to discuss issues and actions needed
at the departmental level. We're focused on making Duke MEMS a more inclusive
and diverse place for faculty, staff and students

The committee, in turn, reports through Pratt School of Engineering's
Committee on Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Community to draw out a list of
action items and works on them throughout the year.

The MEMS DEIC, listed below, comprises representatives of faculty, staff, and
graduate and undergraduate students.

* * *

## We're working together ...

Duke MEMS DEIC Committee Members

    

You're invited to reach out to anyone listed below with ideas, comments,
suggestions. Let them know you'd like to work on a project!

### Faculty

#### Leila Bridgeman

_Assistant Professor_

**Subcommittee:** Training

_"I want to help our department be the best it can be by fostering an
inclusive and equitable community where everyone's diverse skills, knowledge
and contributions are valued. I believe this can help us all do our best work,
while maximizing our personal happiness and fulfillment."_

#### George Delagrammatikas

_Assistant Chair & Professor of the Practice_

**Subcommittee:** Outreach

_"Talent is distributed equally across people and communities, but opportunity
is not. I want to continue the STEM outreach work I've been involved in for
most of my academic career and help broaden participation of underserved
groups in engineering. I'm excited to develop programs that immerse students
from different backgrounds in the same space, allowing us to celebrate our
differences as we identify and try to solve important social problems using
engineering skills. Better engineering is a result of a more diverse team."_

#### Becky Simmons, Chair

_Associate Professor of the Practice_

**Subcommittees:** Outreach, Mentorship

_"Undergraduate mindset, health & wellness, and growth is very important to
me. It is essential that we create a space and experiences where students feel
supported, safe, welcomed and have the confidence to work towards their best
selves. I want students to feel proud of the different experiences, points of
reference and diversity they provide and seek out in others diversity of
thought, living and being."_

#### Stefan Zauscher

_Professor_

**Subcommittee:** Training

_"I felt that I can contribute to creating an inclusive environment in the
department, particularly by addressing issues of equity, by helping to bring
resources to the committee due to my experience with the Teaching for Equity
Fellows program. The DEIC Committee in MEMS provides a learning experience to
stay informed and to learn more about DEIC in the academic environment, as
well as in the community."_

### Staff

#### Patrick McGuire

_Senior Lab Administrator_

**Subcommittee:** Outreach

_"I am excited for the opportunity to lend my voice and support to the MEMS
DEIC committee. My current role as a staff member on the teaching side of the
department involves interacting with our students and faculty. I will strive
to use this as an opportunity to assess and implement positive changes among
all MEMS stakeholders. The department will only get stronger if we can become
more aware of our shared community and strive to make improvements promoting
diversity, equity and inclusion."_

### Graduate Students

#### McKenzie Garcia

_Master's Student_

_"I joined the MEMS DEIC Committee to share my experience at Duke in hopes to
increase representation of Latino students. I want to help make Duke a more
friendly and welcoming environment for all communities."_

#### Concetta Morino

_PhD Student_

**Subcommittee:** Recruitment

_"Being on DEIC is important to me because not only do I want to learn what
events have led to the lack of diversity in my field but also be a part of
changing departmental structure and policies contributing to these barriers."_

#### Luisa Piccolo Serafim

_PhD Student_

_"One of the things that most surprised me when I arrived at Duke was the
university's awareness regarding building a more inclusive and supportive
community. As a member of the MEMS DEIC Committee, I want to take part in this
process and work closely with the Pratt School of Engineering members to
implement the benefits that an inclusive, multicultural and diverse group can
provide for its members, both personally and professionally. "_

### Undergraduate Students

#### Ava Ganeshan

_Mechanical Engineering Major, Junior_

**Subcommittee:** Mentorship

_"DEIC efforts are important to me because I want to help create tangible and
long-lasting changes that benefit all members of our community, providing
everyone with equal opportunity and access."_

#### Jack Dugoni

_Mechanical Engineering Major, Sophomore_

**Subcommittee:** Outreach

_"My interest in joining the MEMS DEIC Committee stemmed originally from my
respect for Dr. Rebecca Simmons, the person who advocated for the group via
email. I found that the Committee's mission to support all MEMS students,
regardless of backgrounds or identity expressions, is one that matches my
interest in promoting inclusivity within the groups of which I am a part,
especially a historically homogeneous field like engineering. I look forward
to the conversations that will surely follow with like-minded individuals who
also bring varying perspectives to the table."_

#### Swetha Sekhar

_**Mechanical Engineering Major, Sophomore**_

**Subcommittee:** Training

_"Being a member of DEIC is my first real experience as part of a DEI
initiative or as a student representative. DEI has always been important to
me, especially with my own experiences as a minority woman in STEM, so I'm
really looking forward to being in MEMS DEIC with other like-minded engineers
to be able to make a difference for the MEMS community."_

Student Affinity Groups

    

### National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE)

Its mission is to increase the number of culturally responsible Black
Engineers who excel academically, succeed professionally, and positively
impact the community.

  * National organization: nsbe.org

  * Duke chapter:

    * www.facebook.com/dukensbe
    * dukensbesecretary.wixsite.com/dukensbe
  * President: Akylah Cox, akylah.cox@duke.edu
  * Advisor: Dr. Adrienne Stiff-Roberts, adrienne.stiffroberts@duke.edu

* * *

### Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE)

Its mission is to change lives by empowering the Hispanic community to realize
its fullest potential and to impact the world through STEM awareness, access,
support and development.

  * National organization: shpe.org

  * President: Javier Franco, javier.franco@duke.edu

  * Advisor: Dr. Sophia Santillan, sophia.santillan@duke.edu

* * *

### Society of Women Engineers (SWE)

Its mission is to empower women to achieve full potential in careers as
engineers and leaders, expand the image of the engineering and technology
professions as a positive force in improving the quality of life, and
demonstrate the value of diversity and inclusion.

  * National organization: swe.org

  * Facebook page: facebook.com/DukeSWEeties

  * Co-Presidents:

    * Annika Hsu, annika.hsu@duke.edu
    * alexa.tannebaum@duke.edu

  * Advisor: Dr. Rebecca Simmons, rebecca.simmons@duke.edu

* * *

### Females Excelling More in Math, Engineering & Science (FEMMES)

  * Website: sites.duke.edu/femmes
  * Program Director: Megan Phibbons, megan.phibbons@duke.edu
  * Advisor: Dr. Heileen Hsu-Kim, hsukim@duke.edu

* * *

### Girls Engineering Change

  * National organization: girlsengineeringchange.org
  * Duke chapter: facebook.com/DukeGEC
  * Advisor: Dr. Elizabeth Bucholtz, elizabeth.bucholtz@duke.edu

* * *

### Runway of Dreams at Duke

  * Associated nonprofit: https://www.runwayofdreams.org/
  * Student leaders:
    * Emma Steadman: emma.steadman@duke.edu
    * Abigail Ullendorff: abigail.ullendorff@duke.edu
  * Faculty advisor: Dr. Rebecca Simmons, rebecca.simmons@duke.edu

* * *

## Duke MEMS Book Club

### _Chip War: The Fight for the World's Most Critical Technology_  
by Chris Miller

  * 2:00 pm, Friday, April 28, 2023
  * Duke Gardens Amphitheater (map)

Join us to discuss this book!

" _The Financial Times_ Business Book of the Year, this epic account of the
decades-long battle to control one of the world's most critical resources —
microchip technology — with the United States and China increasingly in fierce
competition, is pulse-quickening ... a nonfiction thriller." ( _The New York
Times_ ). Download the e-book | Listen to the audiobook

### We've previously read:

  * _The Signal and the Noise: Why Most Predictions Fail - But Some Don't_ by
    Nate Silver
  * _The Design of Everyday Things_ by Don Norman
  * _BUILD: An Unorthodox Guide to Making Things Worth Making_ by Tony Fadell

* * *

## GrAMs—Graduate Ambassadors in MEMS

Are you considering graduate school in a STEM field but don't know where to
start?

GrAMs may be the program for you!

In this program, Duke MEMS graduate students provide mentorship to people
considering applying to graduate school.

With their Graduate Ambassadors, participants can discuss the long-term value
of a graduate degree and answer questions about what life is like in graduate
school. For example, you might learn that:

  * PhD students in STEM fields are usually paid a stipend while they learn
  * PhD students at Duke receive health insurance at no cost, and their
    tuition and fees are covered, too
  * There are fellowships, training programs and scholarships that can provide
    even more support and amazing professional experiences

As you prepare to apply, your GrAMs mentor can help you develop a strategy for
applying to graduate school and suggest how to strengthen your application.

### Who We Serve

This program is available to any person considering applying to a graduate
degree program. We are particularly focused on members of groups
underrepresented in engineering study and in the practice of engineering.

As well, we seek to help students who may be in a tight financial situation or
may be the first person they know to seriously consider graduate school.

### Let's Talk

Getting in touch with GrAMs is easy — email **grams@duke.edu** or, click the
button:

Contact Us

* * *

## K-12 Outreach: Let There Be Lite

Measuring infrared radiation emitted by a Leslie Cube

The Light, Infrared and Thermal Energy (LITE) workshop by Po-Chun Hsu's lab
group (MEMS) engaged local students from the North Carolina School of Science
and Mathematics in optics, photonics and materials science.

“Our goal was to educate and inspire higher educational career paths in the
fields of optics and materials science for sustainable energy among ninth- and
tenth-graders,” Hsu said.

Read the story »

* * *

## M.e.e.t.s— **M** entorship, **E** ngagement, **E** xtracurricular **T** eam
**s**

Students enjoyed fellowship and a little relaxation with the help of Ollie the
therapy dog

Undergraduate students from different years meet informally once a month to
get to know one another and to share experiences and insights. Additional
informal small groups gather to have fun, build community and support each
other.

Ollie the therapy dog

### Reading Period Break with Therapy Dogs, Games & Cake

This gathering was all about supporting, community building, relaxing, and
eating during the reading period!

We had many laughs and happy moments as we met Ollie (a very cute therapy
dog), made origami animals, played games, and ate cake

* * *

## We're Listening To ...

### Social Science Bites

“Sociology and psychology experts dialogue on a range of socially significant
topics, covering areas such as the workplace, stigma, implicit bias, and the
important relation of these topics to one another. A particularly noteworthy
episode, "Discrimination and Design," features Swiss behavioral scientist Iris
Bohnet and covers the presence of gender bias and subconscious discrimination
in the hiring process and workplace at large. Those interested in learning
more about developing DEI skills and perspectives will benefit greatly from
listening."

**Jack Dugoni** **'24** | Duke MEMS undergraduate

Listen to the podcast »

> "Differences are not intended to separate, to alienate. We are different
> precisely in order to realize our need of one another."
>
> **Desmond Tutu |** _No Future Without Forgiveness_ (2000)

## Helpful Resources

  * More about Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community at Duke Engineering »
  * Duke Office of Institutional Equity (OIE)
  * Recommended by MEMS DEIC Committee
  * Resources for Students
  * Accommodations for Disabilities
  * Religious Life Groups

**Report an Incident »**

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

