Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Our History

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About

Longtime faculty and leaders recall the history of Duke’s Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science Department

Click below to browse MEMS Memories as shared by individuals who played a role
in the department's history. For a full timeline of Duke Engineering history,
including key dates associated with the MEMS department, visit the Pratt
School of Engineering's history page.

Introduction & Overview

    

Earl Dowell

In summer 2015, our new chair, Ken Gall, asked several long-serving members of
the faculty (including former chairs) to reflect on their experiences in
contributing to the history of our department. These include Adrian Bejan, Rob
Clark, Hadley Cocks, Kenneth Hall, Bob Hochmuth, Tod Laursen and myself. These
memories have been arranged in roughly chronological order.

The following comments are an overview, which I hope will give you an
introduction and context for the individual and more in depth comments by our
other contributors. See the individual “chronological discussion” that follows
my comments.

Jack Chaddock was chair of MEMS for 20 years from 1966-1986 and passed away
earlier this spring at the age of 90. Hadley Cocks has given us his memories
of that earlier time when Jack recruited Hadley as an initially untenured
faculty member. Dev Garg was also one Jack's early faculty appointments and
spoke eloquently at the service for Jack.

PhD education at Duke and most other universities was jump started with
federal funding after the Soviets launched Sputnik in the late 1950s. I recall
being a young faculty member at Princeton where many of the senior faculty did
not have a PhD though they were considered leaders in their field. And that
was true here at Duke as well. As Hadley notes, Charlie Harman was the first
PhD on the MEMS faculty and the recipient of the first federal funded research
grant. Charlie served for many years as the Director of Graduate Studies.

When I arrived in 1983, Jack Chaddock was nearing the end of his several terms
as Chair, but as one of his last faculty recruits he lured a bright young
Associate Professor from Colorado, Adrian Bejan. Adrian's early encounter with
Charlie Harman is a special part of his memories of arriving at Duke. After
concluding his service as Chair in 1986, Jack became the Associate Dean for
Development (otherwise known as fundraising from donors).

Bob Hochmuth was the Chair from 1986 to 1994. He also served on the search
committee that brought me to Duke as he notes, but I think everyone has
forgiven him for that in view of his excellent service as Chair. As Bob and
Hadley recall, Hadley had recommended Bob as the next Chair to then Dean,
yours truly. For me it was one of those Eureka moments, i.e. what did I not
think of that? Bob was a member of the BME faculty at the time although his
degrees and background from his time at Washington University were in
mechanical engineering and he was doing interesting experimental work on
dynamics of cellular material. By all accounts it worked out very well for
MEMS, but there were a few raised eyebrows initially about this interloper
from BME.

Because Hadley had showed such good judgment in recommending Bob. I asked him
to be the next Chair. Clearly this was a classic case of no good deed going
unpunished. Serving as Chair form 1994-2001, Hadley also found the energy to
create the Master of Engineering Management Program, which has been such an
important contributor to the financial and intellectual success of the Pratt
School and MEMS.

Kenneth Hall was invited by the then Dean, Kristina Johnson, to be the next
Chair serving from 2001-2007. He recalls that of his faculty generation he,
Rob Clark, Lawrie Virgin and Gang Chen all became department chairs; Kenneth
and Rob in MEMS, Lawrie in CEE and Gang Chen at MIT. Gang was our first George
Pearsall Lecture by the way. And, of course, George was a long time stalwart
in MEMS and on two separate occasions served as Dean of the Pratt School. And
Kenneth also had the opportunity to recruit an excellent group of faculty.

At this point, the history of Chairs of MEMS goes into fast forward. Rob Clark
who had been serving as Associate Dean for Research was asked by Kristina
Johnson to be the Chair of MEMS. However, within two months Dean Johnson
departed Duke to become the Provost at Johns Hopkins and Rob Clark was named
Dean. At this point Hadley Cocks was asked to serve again as Chair for a year.
When Tom Katsouleas was named Dean in 2008, Tod Laursen was named Chair and
served for three years before he became President of the new university of
science in technology in Abu Dhabi. Rob Clark then was recruited by the
University of Rochester as their Dean of Engineering. Rob and Tod recall their
time together as new Assistant Professors recruited by Bob Hochmuth.

After Tod moved to Abu Dhabi, I was asked to serve for one year as Chair while
a search for the next Chair was undertaken. Somehow that one year became four
and during that time we were fortunate to add Jennifer West, Michael Zavlanos,
Missy Cummings, David Mitzi, Kris Hauser and Ken Gall to our department which
brings us up to date.

Finally, if I may indulge in a few more memories of my own, here a few that
stand out.

Regarding the Master of Engineering Management Program, a few Fuqua School
faculty felt the need to oppose it and so spoke on the floor of the Academic
Council. However the then Dean of the Fuqua School, Rex Adams, assured me that
he would support the initiative and so say to the Trustees. This was doubly
significant as Rex was a Trustee before being named Dean.

Although largely invisible to most faculty, the Associate Dean for Development
is a key position. Of the five who have served in the role, four were
graduates or faculty in MEMS with Judge Carr having now served with in that
role with the last three Pratt deans. Judge has been one of the major
contributors to the financial success of Pratt and of course MEMS.

Marion Shepard for many years served as Associate Dean for Education and a
member of the MEMS faculty. Our conference room is named for him. Shep and his
exceptional colleague, Connie Simmons, were major contributors to our having
engineering undergraduates among the top five in the country as measured by
SAT scores. As someone once said, the goal was to have a faculty the
undergraduate students could be proud of and we seem to have gotten there over
the years.

Finally, I would note that Kenneth Hall, Gang Chen, Rob Clark, Tod Laursen and
Lawrie Virgin were all initially appointed as Assistant Professors and this
suggests that a young person can be successful in pursuing an outstanding
career as a faculty member and leader in MEMS, Pratt, Duke and beyond.

I hope that both new and longer-serving faculty, as well as students, staff,
alumni and friends, will enjoy this trip down memory lane as provided by our
several colleagues. I certainly enjoyed learning some things I did not know
before and perhaps you will as well.

Happy reading,

**Earl Dowell  
William Holland Hall Professor of Mechanical Engineering**

1960's

    

Hadley Cocks

The 2014-2015 year marked the 75th anniversary of the School of Engineering at
Duke University, now the Pratt School of Engineering. Until soon after the
launching of Sputnik I on October 4, 1957, our School offered Bachelor of
Science degrees in engineering, not doctoral degrees. Sputnik spurred the
school to begin offering PhD degrees, and this in turn required faculty who
themselves held such degrees. Our department was then the Department of
Mechanical Engineering. In 1962, Dr. Charles Harman (1929-2011) became the
first mechanical engineering professor to hold a PhD. Now, of course, all
faculty members have doctoral degrees. Charlie also soon became the principal
investigator for the first major research grant awarded to our department.
This project involved a system for high-speed ground transportation via
evacuated tubes. The artistic depiction of such a system, prepared by a local
architectural firm for one of the reports required by this grant, now hangs in
our conference room, and Earl Dowell as department chair kindly provided the
funds for the brass plaque describing this architectural rendering and its
history. The 1,775-foot vacuum transport facility Charlie built in Duke Forest
for this project can still be seen from Constitution Drive just off Route 751.
Funding of this major project was possible at that time because President
Johnson was interested in high-speed ground transportation between Boston, New
York, and Washington.

In 1966, Dr. Jack Chaddock (1925-2015) became the department chair and for
twenty years oversaw our development. Beginning with Charlie and Jack, our
department has continued to expand its research efforts at an ever-
accelerating rate, and now the department’s research budget is greater than
ten million dollars. Jack’s special field in mechanical engineering was
thermodynamics, especially as related to air-conditioning, and in the late
1960s Jack was responsible for having the first air-conditioning units
installed in our department (for which we all continue to be grateful!!). In
1981 he was elected President of the American Society of Heating,
Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers.

1970's

    

Hadley Cocks

It was Jack Chaddock who hired me in 1972 as an untenured associate professor.
My field is materials science, and I had been employed for six years by Tyco
Laboratories in Waltham, Massachusetts (now grown into the multibillion dollar
company Tyco International). When Tyco hired me in 1966, it consisted of only
70 people, supported entirely by government grants, mostly devoted to
materials science research. My work at Tyco involved doing research and
writing proposals to support this research, and that background must have
fitted well with Jack’s departmental plans. George Pearsall and Marion
Shepard, who preceded me in their appointments as faculty members, also had
backgrounds in materials science. With the three of us making up one quarter
of the faculty, Jack arranged in 1976 for our department to become the
Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science.

* * *

Dev Garg

After receiving my Ph.D. degree in 1969 from New York University, I joined the
faculty at Massachusetts Institute of Technology as an Assistant Professor of
Mechanical Engineering. In 1971, I was promoted to the rank of Associate
Professor, and in 1972 Jack Chaddock, then Chairman of the Department of
Mechanical Engineering, contacted me to consider moving to Durham and joining
the Department here as a tenured full professor. The possibility of such a
move was appealing to me for primarily one reason. It was the recently
established Institute of Policy Sciences and Public Affairs at Duke University
and the emphasis by George Pearsall, then Dean of Engineering, to develop
cross-listed courses and research between Engineering and Policy Sciences. At
MIT, I had started to explore the application of Control Theory to Socio-
Economic Systems, and the prospect of exploiting potential linkages between
Engineering and Public Policy appeared to be quite attractive.

On the invitation of Jack Chaddock and George Pearsall, I came for a visit to
Duke University and fell in love with the place. The department had a dozen or
so faculty members at that time and the environment was very cordial. I
accepted the job offer and my family and I moved to Durham in July of 1972. We
at Duke University at that time had the beginning of a multi-disciplinary
Science, Technology, and Human Values (STHV) Program. Faculty members from the
School of Engineering and from various departments of the Trinity College of
Arts and Sciences participated in this Program. Under the sponsorship of this
program, George Pearsall developed and taught EGR175, a course entitled
Aesthetics, Design, and Culture, and I developed and taught EGR174, a course
entitled Technology Assessment and Social Choice. This course was cross-listed
three ways: EGR174 in the School of Engineering, PPS174 in the Department of
Public Policy Studies, and REL174 in the Department of Religion. Professor Tom
McCollough of the Department of Religion and I team-taught the course, and it
used to have a large enrollment of both Engineering and Trinity students.
Offering of this course ended in early 1990’s following the retirement of
Professor McCollough. Don Wright and I used to offer courses in the area of
dynamic systems modeling, and modern control systems. In addition, in
alternate years, I used to offer a graduate course on Nonlinear Control
Systems also. For a course in Optimal Control, we used to recommend to our
students taking a course offered by Professor Paul Wang in the Electrical
Engineering Department. Both Professors Wang and Wright have since retired.

I served the Department as its Director of Undergraduate Studies from 1977 to
1986. Prior to me, it was Marion Shepard who had held that position for
several years. Following my term, it was Gale Buzzard who took over these
responsibilities. I also served as Chairman of the Engineering Admissions
Committee from 1975 to 1977, and Chairman of the Teacher Course Evaluation
Committee from 1973 to 1974. These functions have gone through a number of
procedural changes over the years.

1980's

    

Hadley Cocks

Over the years I have had many grants and contracts, but the award I received
from Omni magazine in 1982 to build a so-called Get Away Special payload to
fly on the space shuttle was particularly interesting, especially for the
students enrolled in Space Engineering, a course that was taught ten times
until the payload was finally completed and had met all of NASA’s rules. The
idea was to build an autonomous system that could produce ultra-light
magnesium-lithium metal forms under zero gravity conditions for use as
protection against particles impacting satellites. Magnesium-lithium alloys of
high lithium content are very reactive in Earth’s atmosphere, but very stable
in space, and are effective at dissipating the shock wave from ultrahigh
velocity impacts. This project ended up taking a decade of effort before it
finally flew successfully on the Space Shuttle Columbia in June 1991. One
reason this project took so long was the Space Shuttle Challenger disaster of
1986, which caused massive changes in the rules for shuttle payloads,
requiring the complete redesign and rebuilding of our payload.

* * *

Bob Hochmuth

In 1983 it is likely that I was the first, or second, person at Duke to meet
Earl Dowell. I was on the engineering dean search committee, chaired by
Craufurd Goodwin, dean of the graduate school. Craufurd and I met Earl when he
arrived at RDU for his first visit to Duke. We drove Earl from RDU to the
president's guest house, where he was met by Terry Sanford, Duke's president.
We all felt at that time that Earl was the one!

* * *

Adrian Bejan

I joined the MEMS department in September of 1984 as a full professor. I did
not hold administrative positions, but I served on important committees for
many years.

* * *

Bob Hochmuth

In September 1986, I became professor and chairman of mechanical engineering
and materials science. I served as chairman of MEMS until 1994 and I served as
a faculty member in MEMS from 1986 until 2004. My first visit to Duke was in
1973 when I presented a seminar in the Department of Biomedical Engineering
and from the summer of 1974 to the summer of 1975 I was a visiting professor
of biomedical engineering. Starting in September 1978, I was appointed as a
professor of biomedical engineering. How did I get from biomedical engineering
to the chairmanship of MEMS? There was a search for a new chairman of MEMS
following the retirement of Jack Chaddock, who had served as chairman for 20
years. I recall that Hadley Cocks suggested to Earl that I be considered for
the position. I add that all of my engineering degrees are in mechanical
engineering. My expertise in mechanical engineering is in fluid mechanics,
heat transfer and thermodynamics.

* * *

Teh Tan

I joined the Department in early 1986 as a Professor of Materials Science
after working at IBM for 12 years. Together with Ulrich Gösele, who also
joined the Department about six months earlier, we established the Electronics
Materials Laboratory and the Wafer Bonding laboratory, with the latter mainly
charged by Dr. Gösele. Over the next two decades, we solved the point defect
problem in GaAs by first identifying all the important physical mechanisms
that affect diffusion in GaAs, followed by formulating the framework for
understanding and predicting the diffusion phenomena in GaAs. This framework
is now the standard knowledge of the field, in contrast to the chaotic
situation when we first started. We also provided the Si solar cell community
with gettering methods for improving cell efficiency, some of which the solar
cell community now uses. The wafer-bonding laboratory achieved various levels
of applications of the technique. This laboratory was closed in the late 1990s
after the leaving of its key personnel. First, Dr. Gösele left in early 1990s
to Germany where he came the Director of the Max Planck Institute of
Microstructure Physics in Halle, Germany. Second, Dr, Qi-Yi Tang went to RTI
and subsequently became a co-founder of the now well-known company Ziptronix
in RTP. Ziptronix is a modern semiconductor IC manufacturing technology
company.

* * *

Bob Hochmuth

Bill Clayton and Linda Hayes were hired in 1986. Bill was an extraordinary
technician who helped me and others set up laboratory experiments for the
undergraduate courses in fluid mechanics (ME126) and heat transfer (ME150).
Linda was an extraordinary secretary. I recall sitting in Linda's office and
dictating letters as she typed them. She was very fast and accurate. Linda
also prepared budgets and typed manuscripts. She was promoted to
administrative assistant in 1987 -- about a year after I became chair of MEMS.

* * *

Adrian Bejan

When I arrived at Duke, I was asked to teach the undergraduate thermodynamics
course, which, by the way, was appropriately named “ME 101” because before the
heat engine and thermodynamics there was no “mechanical engineering.”
Professor Charles Harman was also teaching ME101 in a parallel section. At the
first departmental meeting that I attended I proposed to the faculty to
discuss and agree on the topics that will be covered in ME101. Professor
Harman replied that at Duke no one was going to tell him what to teach and
how. Some would have been put off by Professor Harman’s reaction. On the
contrary, I saw in it an important message, which is the truth about my new
colleagues, department, and university. The truth is that I am free to invent
and develop my own method, and to teach it my way. This incident turned out to
liberating, and now I see it as the spark that started my activity of course
and textbook development in thermodynamics, heat transfer and constructal
theory.

1990's

    

Adrian Bejan

Over the years, Professor Charles Harman and I grew close. He had himself set
the tone for what I was discovering. He had written with Professors Cocks,
Chaddock, and Shepard the first unifying textbook on Energy Engineering. That
was in 1976, long before such courses became the norm in leading universities
everywhere.

* * *

Kenneth Hall

I arrived at Duke in January 1990. I was a recent graduate of MIT, and I was
working at the United Technologies Research Center when I applied to Duke. The
School of Engineering at the time was making great strides, and it was clear
to me that the School was on a very good vector. Were it not for Earl Dowell,
who was the Dean at the time, and Don Bliss, I probably would not have come to
Duke. Both were trained in and worked on aerospace topics, and I wanted to
have at least a few aerospace colleagues around me, and I have greatly valued
having access to their technical expertise over the years.

* * *

Adrian Bejan

This wonderful history is not about the faculty alone. It is also about the
staff and its lasting contributions to our department. If it were not for the
staff, our students would not be as happy, the ABET hurdle would not be passed
so easily, the faculty promotions would not flow, paychecks would not go to
everyone, course notes would not be written, messages would be lost and
forgotten, labs would not be taught, experiments would not be built, and
graduate examinations would not be on time. Several outstanding staff began in
1991 and have made lasting contributions to our department. Kathy Vickers was
a staff assistant and technical typist. Katherine McKinney worked as a Staff
Specialist (student relations/racecar/purchasing/travel). Deborah Fraze is an
outstanding staff member who worked in an extremely broad set of areas
including as HR Specialist, receptionist, Chairs Asst., Asst. to Dean of
Research, Temp. Dept Manager, Faculty support, APT/ ABET, Grant support, Visa,
Payroll, and Technical typist), and she is still with the department at the
time of this writing in 2015. Mike Gunter was a Machine/Wood Shop Supervisor.
John Goodfellow started in 1997 as a senior instrument maker and machinist and
served the department for many years after this. John is an extremely talented
machinist and has helped faculty in many projects for decades.

* * *

Hadley Cocks

I became the chair of the department in 1994 and remained in this position
until 2001. During this time, I became convinced that the School should offer
a Master’s Degree in Engineering Management, based on the program developed
for the Thayer School of Engineering at Dartmouth by their Dean, Charles
Hutchinson. Earl Dowell was then our Dean and gave his support to this effort
after inviting Dean Hutchinson to visit Duke and tell us why he began the
Master of Engineering Management program at Dartmouth. Since I had started
this initiative it naturally fell to me to make this program happen. Duke has
a large number of hurdles that must be overcome before a new degree-granting
program can be established, and it took more than three years of effort to get
the Engineering Management program established. It finally began in 1997, and
for seven years I served as its founding director. The inaugural class
numbered twelve students, all of whom were newly-graduated Duke engineering
students. The current class now numbers more than 200 students, who come from
all across the US and indeed from around the world. It has proven to be a
major asset to the Pratt School, and is the only new degree-granting program
in the engineering school since Theo Pilkington inaugurated the Biomedical
Engineering Department in 1970.

* * *

Dev Garg

From 1992 to 1998, I served as Director of the Dynamic Systems and Control
Program at the National Science Foundation. This was done while I was on leave
from Duke University. During my term at NSF I was appointed the Chairman of
the Strategic Planning and Evaluation Committee of the Directorate for
Engineering, resulting in an extended stay there. Recognizing the importance
of professional community service in this position, Professor Dowell, as the
Dean of Engineering, was very supportive of my stay at NSF. I felt that there
was one specific area of major emerging importance that needed our immediate
attention, and that was teaching and research in the field of robotics. To
remedy that situation, I established the Robotics and Manufacturing Automation
(RAMA) Laboratory in the Department. In addition, I developed a new course
ME270 entitled Robot Control and Automation. External funding for research in
the robotics area was obtained from the federal agencies such as the National
Science Foundation, the U.S. Army Research Office of the Department of
Defense, and from the private sector such as International Business Machines
(IBM). Research projects in the RAMA Lab provided an excellent mix of advanced
theory and practice.

* * *

Kenneth Hall

I was hired around the same time as Tod Laursen, Lawrie Virgin, and Rob Clark.
Gang Chen was also hired, I think, shortly after I arrived. All five of us
went on to become chairs of departments. Tod, Rob, and myself in MEMS at Duke
— although Rob was only chair for about 1.5 months before becoming Dean of the
School when Kristina Johnson stepped down. Lawrie was Chair of Civil
Engineering. And Gang Chen went on to become Chair of Mechanical Engineering
at MIT. Rob went on to be Dean of Engineering at the University of Rochester,
and Tod is now President at Khalifa University. Josiah Knight was hired a
couple years prior to my arrival, and served ably as the Director of
Undergraduate studies for many years, helped prepare several of our ABET
reports, and recently has been advising Duke’s very successful SAE car teams.

* * *

Dev Garg

The major emphasis of the research projects carried out in the RAMA Lab was on
coordination and control of multiple robots handling a variety of payloads
together. In such situations, the robots and the payload form a closed
kinematic chain, and issues such as optimal load distribution, and internal
force minimization become rather critical. To validate our theoretical results
we equipped the lab with two IBM four-axis SCARA robots, force/torque sensors,
vision sensors, and motion controllers. We used this system in a number of
research projects supported by the Army Research Office. Later, using the
funding obtained from NSF, these robots were replaced by two ABB six-axis
revolute jointed state-of-the-art robots. A flexible manufacturing automation
workcell was designed and implemented equipping it with a variety of sensors
and a monorail payload handling system surrounding the two robots. In addition
to using the large size robots, coordination and control experiments were also
conducted with small-size Khepera and E-Puck robots. Issues such as
coordinated control, situation awareness, and hazardous perimeter isolation
were explored with these smaller and other types of robots.

* * *

Rob Clark

I remember Tod Laursen, Lawrie Virgin, Ken Hall, and myself as the “young
faculty”. We were all recruited in the Hochmuth era and properly vetted by
Earl as well. Lawrie and Ken preceded my arrival and were part of the search
committee that brought me to Duke, led at the time by Adrian Bejan, who was
looking for someone in heat transfer, but made me the top priority as an
acoustician and controls person. I note this because the faculty were focused
on recruiting the “best people” not simply the specified target. I’m not
saying I was the “best,” as I have no way of knowing the other candidates, but
I was certainly outside of the domain of search. I was welcomed to Duke by
all.

* * *

  
Tod Laursen

Rob Clark and I started our Duke careers the same year (1992) as assistant
professors, and had offices around the corner from each other in Hudson for
several years. We also had similar family obligations (our children are about
the same ages) and for some time both had the habit of starting our work days
very early (circa 4 am!) so that we could help out with young families and
such at home in the evenings. I remember some of those early morning hallway
conversations very fondly---it was just us and the cleaning staff!

* * *

Rob Clark

As a young faculty member, I kept my head down and “lived in the lab”-- very
early mornings as Tod noted. I also worked to develop active collaborations in
research and worked with Earl, Ken, and Lawrie in my early years bridging
acoustics, aeroelasticity, and applied control. My research group was on the
third floor of the building, and I actually convinced Earl to allow me to
place a rocket fairing on the roof so that I could conduct research on payload
acoustic disturbances. A crane placed it on the roof, and it was tied down
with straps. To this day, I can’t believe the University let me do that… You
could see it prominently from the Dean’s conference room.

* * *

Tod Laursen

Considering another memory about that same time, my initial faculty
appointment at Duke was in CEE. Bob Hochmuth was the Chair of MEMS in those
days, and was really instrumental in reaching out to me and offering me a
secondary in MEMS. I should mention Adrian Bejan in this connection as well,
as some of my most active early collaborations were with him and his
students—working on computational optimization of heat exchanger geometries.
I’ve always been grateful that MEMS welcomed me to Duke as graciously as it
did.

* * *

Rob Clark

MEMS was and is a “friendly” department and has always been heavily focused on
productivity and research. This and the fact that Earl was dean and was well-
known to me at that time because of his research in aeroelasticity was what
attracted me to Duke. We always “punched above our weight class,” but we never
felt as if we received the recognition we deserved as an engineering school.
Ever hear that story before? :) Regardless, Earl’s focus since serving as Dean
was transforming Engineering at Duke into a research powerhouse. This legacy
was followed by Kristina Johnson, and all of us he recruited with that mission
in mind. Duke’s Engineering School is on a very different playing field now as
a result of this focus and investment.

Ken Hall, with Earl, also led a major gas turbines initiative and made sure
that Duke was a leader in a major consortium. These are all good examples of
how MEMS faculty members served as leaders with reach well beyond the
department. Bob Hochmuth was a great leader and was very focused on recruiting
talent to MEMS. He was extraordinarily supportive of junior faculty members,
as was Hadley Cocks who followed him. I was fortunate to work and develop my
academic career in a very supportive environment. This was a signature MEMS
culture.

* * *

  
Tod Laursen

A final memory, just a touch later, was the vision and foresight that Hadley
Cocks had in pushing for the founding of the MEMP program. Of course Earl as
Dean was a huge facilitator of the founding of that program, and Jeff Glass as
a subsequent director took it to even greater heights. But the passion and
persistence that Hadley showed in getting the program started is a real memory
for me from the latter half of the 1990s. Pauline Roberts was the staff
assistant who helped with the creation of the MEMP program.

* * *

Josiah Knight

Two other initiatives while Tod was chair were the development by Pratt and
Trinity College of the Energy and Environment Certificate, which is
University-wide but has strong involvement from MEMS, both by students and
faculty; and the Energy Engineering Minor, again not limited to MEMS (it's
directed by Marc Deshusses in CEE) but strongly supported by our department.
I'm happy to have had a role in the startup and the continuation of both these
programs.

* * *

Rob Clark

Tod’s point about Hadley’s commitment to MEMP is important. That was another
major initiative that was born within the department.

2000's

    

Rob Clark

Engaged in the strategic planning process at Duke, I was able to coordinate
collaborations between Arts and Science faculty and Engineering faculty in the
domain of materials science, particularly with respect to resource allocation.
Despite having not been a materials scientist myself, I was identified leader
of the initiative, and from that effort the Center for Biologically Inspired
Materials and Material Systems was born. I morphed my own research in
collaboration with cell biologists and materials scientists at the time to
optimize efforts. That led me to a path in administration--and here I am at
the University of Rochester [as Senior Vice President for Research]. Our
faculty have always been engaged in administrative efforts. If you look at
prior Associate Deans and Deans of Engineering there at Duke, you will find
many of our colleagues in the picture.

* * *

Teh Tan

Since I came to Duke, two electronics materials courses were developed:
Introduction to Electronics Materials and Thermodynamics of Materials. These
are graduate-level courses and I personally believe that Thermodynamics of
Materials is the foundation course for all Materials Science students. Since
2004, I also started to teach our undergraduate Engineering Thermodynamics
course, which is the foundation course for all Mechanical Engineering
students. My experience here is that this is a dynamic department with an
overwhelming collegiality. I have never observed any animosity among our
colleagues. In fact, quite the opposite is true: mutual respect and a helping
hand. This is particularly true toward our young colleagues. Our colleagues
are not shy in offering helping hands to meet others’ needs.

* * *

Kenneth Hall

Bob Kielb, who is part of our larger aeromechanics group, came to Duke as a
Research Scientist (sometime around 2000). Prior to that, he had worked as a
civilian employee at the Air Force Research Lab, a researcher at NASA Lewis
(now NASA Glenn), and GE Aircraft Engines. Bob is a very well-known researcher
in turbomachinery aeromechanics, and he brings with him a wealth of industrial
and National Research Lab experience to Duke. He was also the prime mover for
getting the GUIde Consortium Center located here at Duke, as well as Duke’s
participation in the international Thrust master’s program, which is centered
at KTH in Sweden. Bob has served for a number of years as the Associate Chair
of the Department.

I became Chair in July of 2001 (Kristina Johnson was the Dean at the time),
and I served until 2007. The first year of my term was the “year of record”
for both the ABET review, and a review of the department by the Graduate
School. Laurens (Lars) Howle was by then the Director of Graduate Studies. He
did much of the heavy lifting in helping to prepare for those reviews, and I
am still grateful for all his help. The Graduate School review of the
Department was in particular very positive about the strengths and directions
of the department. We also hired a number of fine faculty members during my
time as chair including Chuan-Hua Chen, Brian Mann, Piotr Marszalek, Ben
Yellen, and Silvia Ferrari (who has since moved to Cornell), among others.

Glenda Hester became the assistant to the chair in 2007, and has since
successfully helped four different chairs, including the current chair, Ken
Gall, to lead the department. It is clear that no chair could function without
her outstanding, 24-7 support. During my time as chair Kathy Parrish also
served as staff specialist working to support the undergraduate and graduate
programs, and is known for her rapport with the students. Michele Thompson
came on board to support many activities including the never-ending job of
department purchasing. Ron Stubbs was the department IT staff member in 2002.
We are very grateful for the work put in by these staff members in building
the department.

In 2006, Phil Jones passed away while still an active member of our
department. Phil was a member of our faculty for nearly three decades. He was
a lovely man, a dedicated and gifted educator, and I would add a favorite of
the undergraduate students. In 2011, we lost Charles Harman only a few years
after his retirement from the department. I well remember Charlie as one of
the quiet leaders of the department. He was unassuming, but had a tremendous
influence on the department, especially in its administration. He was the
long-time Director of Graduate Studies, the de facto “space czar,” and also
headed our ABET accreditation process for many years. He was also very
supportive of junior faculty, dispensing timely and important career advice.

* * *

Dev Garg

Silvia Ferrari, a Princeton graduate, joined the Department and she and Rob
Clark helped with teaching and research in the area of control. Silvia’s
research work in the field of robotics basically dealt with computational
aspects. She has now moved to Cornell University. We are now adding additional
faculty in the robotics area. I chaired two separate search committees that
led to the hiring of Michael Zavlanos and Kris Hauser. With the arrival of
Missy Cummings from MIT, I firmly believe that we have a strong core group in
the robotics area. These appointments were made possible during the tenure and
support of Professor Earl Dowell as Chairman of the Department and Professor
Tom Katsouleas as the Engineering Dean. I retired from Duke in July 2011, and
became Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering.

* * *

Adrian Bejan

We have also been blessed with a group of new staff members who are working
side by side with new faculty to grow and constantly improve the department.
Jerry Kirk, Crystal Hinnant, Alice Huang are past and present grant managers
who have helped faculty build the research programs at Duke with their endless
efforts in proposals and contracts under extreme high-pressure funding cycles.
Pamela King and Joanne Grosshans are bright, energetic program coordinators
for the successful IGERT WiseNet and GUIde programs. Zhanat Elliston was
brought on in 2013 to become the business manager of the department and has
been instrumental in moving the department forward in many areas in a very
short period of time. And last but not least, Nikhil Bumb and Patrick McGuire
and hardworking engineers who keep our undergraduate labs functioning amongst
many other things.

During the past three decades, our department attracted the best talents from
institutions all over the world. Most stayed, and became successful while
contributing permanently to the fame of Duke. Today our department resembles a
top soccer team, where origin and passports do not count: The new player who
knows how to play, plays. We have become a team of professors from everywhere,
each self-driven, each deserving, each with legacy. We are a diverse group
with our diversity emerging naturally, as if unnoticed. Our diversity was not
commanded from above. Diversity “happened” because of freedom in the pursuit
of new ideas and empowering the students’ lives. This is the design and the
secret of our rise as a leading department and university.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

