Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# News

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About

Featured

March 07, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Putting the SE Back in Silicon Electronics

Researchers from across the southeastern US gathered at Duke University to
answer the CHIPS and Science Act’s call to reinvigorate the nation’s silicon-
related research and manufacturing abilities

March 07, 2023 | **_University of Nottingham_**

### Brain Tumour Discovery Paves Way for New Drug Treatments

MEMS prof David Needham and colleagues are working to confirm that some brain
tumors feature high levels of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptors, which
could inform therapeutics

February 23, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Measuring the Lightest Touch Your Body Responds To

Duke engineers and neuroscientists put four touch-sensitive, electrically
responsive proteins to the test

February 22, 2023 | **_Rate of Change Podcast_**

### New Episode: Adrian Bejan and the Inescapable Need for Freedom

Duke MEMS professor Adrian Bejan escaped the Iron Curtain to pursue his
dreams. In this new episode of 'Rate of Change,' discover how his freedom led
him to develop the Constructal Law

February 20, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Duke Engineering: Then & Now

As part of National Engineers Week, take a look at how Duke Engineering has
changed and grown over the years

February 07, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Physics Reveals Some Obstacles Aren’t Obstacles At All

Researchers find that cataracts and turbulence that seem to slow water’s flow
actually facilitate it

February 02, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Bridgeman Wins Office of Naval Research Young Investigator Award

Award will help unlock the potential of historically underappreciated control
theory to solve modern challenges of controlling fleets of autonomous vehicles

February 01, 2023 | **_Duke Research Blog_**

### Design Challenge Feels Like Fun, Actually Earns Credits

Graduate and undergraduate students team up to create a potentially
commercially viable novel smart fitness device, culminating in an end-of-
semester product trade show

January 23, 2023 | **_Duke Graduate School_**

### Graduate School Names 13 Dean's Award Recipients for 2023

Three Duke Engineers were named winners of the 2023 Dean's Awards, which
recognize outstanding efforts by graduate students, faculty and
departments/programs.

January 20, 2023 | **_Duke Graduate School_**

### Duke MEMS' Leila Bridgeman Honored with Graduate Dean's Award for
Excellence in Mentoring

The assistant professor and control-systems expert will be recognized with
other award recipients on March 30.

January 11, 2023 | **_SAE International_**

### The Power of Mentorship

Mohamed Zaher of AMM Inc. and Duke Engineering master's student Thomas Peng
met through SAE’s mentoring program, and the professional connection was
instant.

#### Pagination

  * Current page 1
  * Page 2
  * Page 3
  * Page 4
  * Page 5
  * Page 6
  * Page 7
  * Page 8
  * Page 9
  * …
  * Next page Next ›
  * Last page Last »

## Media Coverage

The New York Times | April 11, 2023

### Can Intelligence Be Separated From the Body?

Technology Networks Cancer News | March 8, 2023

### Brain Tumor Breakthrough Opens Avenue for New Drug Treatments

New Books Network | February 27, 2023

### Time and Beauty: Why Time Flies and Beauty Never Dies

See more news coverage

## Podcast

Listen to a podcast from Duke Engineering, dedicated to the ingenious ways
that engineers are solving society's toughest problems.

Listen & subscribe

## Email Newsletter

The Duke MEMS e-newsletter provides a snapshot of our research, programs,
people and events designed to keep you connected to the exciting things
happening in mechanical engineering and materials science at Duke.

Subscribe and view past issues

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

