Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Undergraduate Study

Become a creative mechanical engineer, inspired and equipped to make an impact

What does tomorrow’s engineer need to know? At Duke's Thomas Lord Department
of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science, we’ve thought hard about this
question.

### U.S. News Rankings

  * **#16** engineering school for undergraduates
  * **#10** national university
  * **#8** national university for undergraduate research

More facts about Duke MEMS »

From your very first semester at Duke, our signature educational experience
immerses you in:

  * Hands-on Design
  * Data Science
  * Computing
  * Research
  * Entrepreneurship

At Duke MEMS, we are preparing creative engineers who are inspired and
equipped to solve complex societal problems.

APPLY TO DUKE

* * *

## Customize Your Degree

We offer an accredited BSE degree with a major in mechanical engineering, and
undergraduate certificates in Aerospace Engineering, Energy & the Environment
and Materials Science & Engineering.

Our undergraduate program provides firm preparation in the essential
engineering topics while allowing wide flexibility for you to pursue your own
specialized interests—including independent study, dual majors, the sciences
and liberal arts, and study abroad.

* * *

## Program Educational Objectives

Our goal is to graduate mechanical engineers who embody excellence in a broad
sense. We expect our graduates to advance within industry positions or in
graduate study, or to carry the attributes of an engineering education into
other disciplines.

The mechanical engineering program of study must include mathematics and basic
sciences, fundamentals and applications in several engineering sciences, and
team-based experience in the process of design, where theory is applied in the
context of real needs and limitations, and where judgment must be exercised.

Our mechanical engineering graduates should be able to think critically when
solving problems and managing tasks and communicate effectively in multi-
disciplinary professional environments.

To be a responsible member of the engineering profession, each graduate must
be aware of social, ethical, environmental and economic factors and
constraints on engineering activity, and must understand the importance of
these matters in a global context. We aspire to have our graduates exhibit
intellectual depth and creativity, uphold high ethical standards, and show a
commitment to the betterment of society through service and professional work.

Our specific Program Educational Objectives are to prepare our graduates to:

  * Identify and address significant needs and challenges in engineering and
    society, and effectively communicate solutions
  * Advance in professional careers that may encompass a broad range of
    endeavors, both technical and non-technical
  * Exhibit intellectual depth and creativity in employment, advanced
    education and research
  * Uphold high ethical standards and show a commitment to the betterment of
    society through service and professional work

* * *

## Student Learning Outcomes

Our students will have the following capabilities upon completion of their
degrees:

  * An ability to identify, formulate and solve complex engineering problems
    by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics
  * An ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet
    specified needs with consideration of public health, safety and welfare,
    as well as global, cultural, social, environmental and economic factors
  * An ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences
  * An ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in
    engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider
    the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental,
    and societal contexts
  * An ability to function effectively on a team whose members together
    provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment,
    establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives
  * An ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and
    interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions
  * An ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate
    learning strategies

* * *

## Explore Duke MEMS

  * **Compare degrees& certificates**
  * **Details for applicants**
  * **Explore student opportunities**
  * **Meet our faculty**
  * **View enrollment and graduation rates**

## ABET Accreditation

This program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of
ABET.

## Undergraduate Contacts

### Donald Bliss

Associate Professor and Director of Undergraduate Studies

__919-660-5315

__donald.bliss@duke.edu

### Nico Hotz

Associate Professor of the Practice and Associate Director of Undergraduate
Studies

__919-660-5118

__nico.hotz@duke.edu

### Amy Spaulding

Director of Undergraduate Studies Assistant

__919-660-5310

__amy.spaulding@duke.edu

## News from Duke MEMS

March 07, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Putting the SE Back in Silicon Electronics

March 07, 2023 | **_University of Nottingham_**

### Brain Tumour Discovery Paves Way for New Drug Treatments

February 23, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Measuring the Lightest Touch Your Body Responds To

View all news

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

