Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Aerospace Engineering Undergraduate Certificate

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Undergraduate
  3. Degrees
  4. Certificates

Rigorous and in-depth exposure to the scientific and engineering fundamentals
of the aerospace field

Unlike traditional aerospace engineering programs, this Duke MEMS
undergraduate certificate program is attuned to modern industry needs and
designed for aspiring mechanical engineers who want to work on challenges
related aircraft and spacecraft.

Courses dealing specifically with flight vehicle applications are taught by
expert Duke faculty who are actively involved in cutting-edge aerospace
research and who rank among the nation's most accomplished aerospace
engineers.

Our graduates leave the program inspired and equipped for aerospace
careers—either in industry or government, or in leading master's and PhD
aerospace engineering programs.

## Overview

### Technical Training

The Aerospace Engineering Certificate provides Duke mechanical engineering
undergraduate students with an understanding of fundamental principles of:

  * Fluid mechanics and aerodynamics
  * Dynamics and control
  * Structures and materials
  * Thermodynamics
  * Propulsion

Plus, our courses also address specific aerospace technologies for flight and
space vehicles.

### Research Opportunities

In addition to coursework, the program offers enriching opportunities for
independent research under the supervision of a faculty member.

## Hands-On Experiences

Students in this program can participate in our student chapters of the
American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) and the American
Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME). These active co-curricular programs
bring students together into communities of shared interest, provide access to
hands-on projects and offer special speakers and social events.

Check out the AIAA Duke Student Chapter

## Eligibility

All engineering undergraduates are eligible to participate in the program and
qualify for certification. Although MEMS is the host department, there is a
concerted effort to engage students from other departments, and to provide
flexibility to help majors in other departments meet the program standards
while maintaining program focus and quality. Each upper class mechanical
engineering student in the Aerospace Certificate Program has the option of
being assigned an academic advisor who is affiliated with the program.
Successful completion of the Aerospace Certificate Program is noted on the
student's academic transcript.

## Certificate Requirements

Seven Courses must be completed to earn Aerospace Engineering Certificate. The
certificate program focuses on upper class courses.

Fundamental mechanical engineering courses: Select two courses. (Note: two
courses are already required for ME major; substitutions are possible for non
ME students.)

  * Fluid Mechanics
  * Control Systems
  * Heat and Mass Transfer

### Foundation Course (centerpiece course)

  * Aircraft Performance and Design

### Core Aerospace Electives

Choose one (restricted list):

  * Aerodynamics
  * Compressible Fluid Flow
  * Aerospace Structures

### Supporting Engineering Electives

Choose two electives from the list below or from the Core Aerospsace Electives
List.

  * Graduation with Departmental Distinction Independent Project (If project
    is aerospace related, it can be used for Graduation with Departmental
    Distinction).
  * Independent Project (If Aerospace related, independent project numbers
    from other Pratt departments are permitted.)
  * Pratt Fellows Independent Study (If Aerospace related; Pratt Fellows from
    other departments are permitted.)
  * Introduction to Vibrations
  * Special Topics Coures related to Aerospace Engineering. Special Topics
    Courses from other Pratt departments are permissible given appropriate
    content.
  * Intermediate Dynamics
  * Modern Control and Dynamic Systems
  * Advanced Mechanical Vibrations
  * Engineering Acoustics
  * Finite Element Method
  * Introduction to Robots and Automation
  * Applied Mathematics
  * Mathematical Fluid Dynamics

Other upper class and graduate level courses in related areas such as control,
robotics, and structures are also permissible subject to approval of the
aerospace certificate program coordinator. New courses may also be created in
the future. For instance, the courses in aerospace structures and aerospace
vehicle stability and control are under development.

### Arts and Sciences Course

Select one course offered by Trinity College of Arts and Sciences in one of
the following areas:

  * History (if applicable to the role of technology and
  * science);
  * Public Policy (if applicable to the use and impact of technology); or
  * Economics (if applicable to large or international corporate structures).

Courses are to be approved by the certificate coordinator; other course
options will be considered on an individual basis with consideration given to
the relevance to the field.

* * *

## Certificate Coordinator

### Donald B. Bliss

**Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science  
Director of Undergraduate Studies, Duke MEMS**  
919-660-5315  
donald.bliss@duke.edu

## Undergraduate Contacts

### Donald Bliss

Associate Professor and Director of Undergraduate Studies

__919-660-5315

__donald.bliss@duke.edu

### Nico Hotz

Associate Professor of the Practice and Associate Director of Undergraduate
Studies

__919-660-5118

__nico.hotz@duke.edu

### Amy Spaulding

Director of Undergraduate Studies Assistant

__919-660-5310

__amy.spaulding@duke.edu

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

