

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2022

# Lisa Burton O’Toole: 2021 Distinguished Young Alumni Award

February 17, 2022

Lisa Burton O'Toole provides investment and resources for early-stage, women-
led startups across media, data, health care and technology

Lisa Burton O’Toole’s (E’07) path to investing in women-led startups began at
Duke as a mechanical engineering undergraduate researcher. While at Duke, she
studied acoustics as a Pratt Fellow and then, while earning her Master’s and
PhD at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, she specialized in data-
driven modeling and machine learning to predict the motion of swimming
animals.

From these research experiences, Burton learned three key lessons common to
both successful research and founders. First, you must be able to build strong
teams and a network of peers and mentors to get the best results. You also
must be able to communicate complex ideas quickly and effectively. Last but
not least, you must know your “north star”—your number one goal that drives
prioritization and every decision you make. Burton went on to lead data
science teams for a series of startups before founding her own company that
leveraged data to help brands understand their customers online.

In 2016, Burton raised a round of venture capital funding that was led by
HearstLab, a group that funds early-stage, women-led tech startups.
HearstLab’s mission is to help close the funding gap by gender in venture
capital, where today 88% of funding goes to startups without a single female
founder.

HearstLab was a game changer to Burton’s own startup and she saw the
opportunity to have significant impact by joining the HearstLab team to invest
in and support female founders. HearstLab is nested within the parent company
Hearst Communications, a leading global, diversified information, services and
media company with more than 360 businesses.

Since its inception, HearstLab has invested tens of millions of dollars in
more than 40 women-led companies that have collectively more than doubled
their valuation since 2021. Burton now co-leads HearstLab, which leverages its
parent company to help the startups grow by having women leaders across the
company, known as “HearstLab Scouts,” donate time to help the startups,
including everything from an introduction to a potential client to help with a
founder’s pricing model or PR strategy. This model works both ways, Burton
says, because the Scouts get exposure to founders, new technologies and
different business models, which helps them approach their day job from new
angles.

“I also felt that it was really important to make sure that these women
leaders are visible, especially to younger versions of themselves,” Burton
said.

To make sure they’re as visible as possible, Burton connects the Scouts and
founders to outside organizations for mentoring and speaking opportunities.
These engagements range all the way from young women learning how to code,
with a group called GirlsWhoCode, to high school students in the Bronx, with a
group called BridgeUp. It’s Burton’s goal, she says, to elevate the stellar
women in HearstLab to inspire and encourage the next generation to become
thoughtful leaders themselves.

When not working her day job, Burton also supports women in business and STEM
through several organizations including All Raise and NYU Summer Launchpad.
She is also a member of the advisory board for Duke’s Department of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science, the NYU Innovation Fund, and Strategio, a
startup that aims to empower and invest in diverse talent in technology.

She comes back to campus any chance she gets, and has given talks at the Duke
Women’s Weekend and with the Business Oriented Women group. She also engages
with the Duke I&E group and meets with student founders, judges pitch
competitions, and looks forward to the Melissa and Doug entrepreneurship
presentations each year. In recognition of all of this work in engineering and
entrepreneurship, Burton has received a number of awards including the ASME
Kate Gleason Award for distinguished female leaders and the MIT Luis de Florez
Award for Outstanding Ingenuity and Creativity.

Given how much time and effort Burton invests into young leaders across the
country, it’s no surprise that her favorite memories from Duke are all about
the people. Some of her best friends to this day are people that she met
first-year in GA.

“I remember how my classmates dreamed really big, and they made those things
happen,” Burton said. “It reminds me a lot of having conversations with
founders now. Those experiences were really influential to me.”

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2022

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

