

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2019

# An Enterprising Program for Design Education Students

July 11, 2019 | By Jackson McNabb

The new Duke Design Health Fellows program connects the engineering classroom
to biomedical commercialization

The new Duke Design Health Fellows Program exposes students to the biomedical
engineering commercialization process. Comprising clinical fellows from the
School of Medicine, professional students from the Fuqua School of Business,
and graduates and undergraduates from Duke Engineering, the interdisciplinary
program takes an integrated look at innovation. The multi-school partnership
exposes Design Health Fellows to copious and impactful opportunities to
revolutionize digital health and medical devices through design. It also
connects students to the enterprising networks needed to foster an impact
through medicine.

Although this is the program's pilot year, Eric Richardson, associate
professor of the practice in biomedical engineering, notes that the program
has received "overwhelming support and mentorship from the Duke community, the
Duke Clinical Research Institute and the broader entrepreneurial community in
Durham."

The program's immediate success is in part because of its dedicated
leadership. Pioneered by Richardson and Joe Knight, adjunct professor of
biomedical engineering, who quickly added Paul Fearis, senior lecturing fellow
and director of designs and insights, the program could not have more
innovative directors. A veteran in biomedical design, Richardson recently
transitioned to Duke from Rice University, where he was the founding director
of the Global Medical Innovation Program, a program similar to the Design
Health Fellows but focused on global emerging markets. Richardson was also the
associate director of the Texas Medical Center Biodesign Fellowship, which
connected scholars to a comprehensive venture formation curriculum with the
goal of developing medical device startups.

An innovator himself, Richardson previously served as a principal research and
development engineer at Medtronic and developed a transcatheter heart valve—a
product that currently serves over 100,000 patients. Coupled with Richardson's
demonstrated entrepreneurial spirit, Knight is currently a core faculty member
in the Duke Innovation & Entrepreneurship Initiative as well as the CEO of
InnAVasc Medical, a company started at Duke which designs and develops
products for vascular access for hemodialysis. And Fearis recently joined
Pratt after 30 years in the medical device design industry and a pivotal
teaching role in the Center for Bioengineering Innovation and Design at Johns
Hopkins University.

Richardson explains that instead of having students solve predefined problems,
the program allows students to actively identify, validate and prioritize
problems that have an impact on human health.

Beginning in September of every year, the competitive partnership is a nine-
month program in which fellows are exposed to clinical environments and use
structured ethnography tools to collect unmet needs. Fellows then screen,
prototype and analyze hundreds of these needs using a system of market
analyses, intellectual property assessments and other tools to transition to
an entrepreneurial concept. The team then develops business, regulatory,
reimbursement, clinical and manufacturing plans to deploy a polished product
and business model that they can choose to take to market.

The program's encouragement of diverse, dynamic partnerships complements other
biomedical design and Pratt opportunities.

This year's fellows decided to focus on peripheral artery disease and heart
failure. Richardson adds that the two teams of fellows, still in the
development phase, have been deeply immersed within clinical environments. To
further develop their identified unmet needs (and hopefully impacted fields),
Richardson said, "They have visited the heart failure clinic and talked to
patients, observed surgical cases in the operating room, and seen
interventional procedures in the catheterization lab." The teams will be
presenting their top three needs to the dean of Duke Engineering and Duke
University Hospital's chief of cardiology and chair of surgery.

While he makes it clear that "the current teams have met and exceeded our
expectations," Richardson hopes to add to and improve the pilot program for
the next iteration of students. Richardson elaborates that this year, the
partnership, which aligns with other dedicated enterprises in which he has
invested his time, is a "highly talented team of people with a mix of
engineering, clinical, and business training and experience. It's this
diversity that makes working with them so much fun."

**Jackson McNabb is a first-year student interested in electrical/computer and
biomedical engineering.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2019

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

