Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Aaron M Kyle

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Professor of the Practice in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Aaron M. Kyle focuses on enhancing undergraduate education while teaching
First Year Design, Senior Design and Bioinstrumentation. Dr. Kyle aspires to
create new courses that will provide robust design experiences for
undergraduates between their first and final years of study. He is also
devising methods and researching the efficacy of intentionally addressing DEI
issues in design projects and engineering education.  

In 2014, Dr. Kyle created and launched the HYPOTHEKids (Hk) Maker Lab, an NIH-
funded set of programs focused on introducing underprivileged and
underrepresented minority high school students in New York City to engineering
design and biomedical research. As a result of this program, over 160 high
school students have learned and applied a bio-engineering design process. The
program has propelled students to biomedical laboratory and biotechnology
industry internships and the pursuit of STEM majors. He also guided NYC
teachers in the development of engineering design-centric courses for middle
and high school students. These courses are currently being taught in seven
(7) NYC high schools, impacting over 1000 students. With his move to Duke, Dr.
Kyle will work to replicate these efforts for students and teachers in Durham,
NC, and surrounding communities.  

Dr. Kyle received his BS in Electrical Engineering from Kettering University
in '02 and his Ph.D. in Biomedical Engineering from Purdue University in '07.
After conducting postdoctoral research at the Indiana University School of
Medicine, he joined the faculty in BME at Columbia University in 2010 where he
proudly served as a Senior Lecturer for twelve years. He moved on to the
faculty at Duke University in 2022. He is a member of Eta Kappa Nu and Tau
Beta Pi engineering honor societies. He is a Fellow of the American Institute
for Medical and Biological Engineering and delivered the Diversity Award
Lecture at the 2020 BMES Annual Meeting

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor of the Practice in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

## Contact Information

  * **Email Address:** aaron.kyle@duke.edu

## Education

  * Ph.D. Purdue University, 2007

## Courses Taught

  * BME 473L: Medical Device Design I
  * BME 474L: Medical Device Design II
  * EGR 101L: Engineering Design and Communication

## In the News

  * Aaron Kyle: Exploring New Methods to Diversify and Strengthen Engineering
    Educa…

## News from Duke BME

April 14, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Integrated Design Challenge Restores Balance to the Force

March 28, 2023 | **_Duke Institute for Brain Sciences_**

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 20, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

View all news

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

