Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Angel V Peterchev

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Associate Professor in Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences

I direct the Brain Stimulation Engineering Lab (BSEL) which focuses on the
development, modeling, and application of devices and paradigms for
transcranial brain stimulation. Transcranial brain stimulation involves non-
invasive delivery of fields (e.g., electric and magnetic) to the brain that
modulate neural activity. It is widely used as a tool for research and a
therapeutic intervention in neurology and psychiatry, including several FDA-
cleared indications. BSEL develops novel technology such as devices for
transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) that leverage design techniques from
power electronics and computational electromagnetics to enable more flexible
stimulus control, focal stimulation, and quiet operation. We also deploy these
devices in experimental studies to characterize and optimize the brain
response to TMS. Another line of work is multi-scale computational models that
couple simulations of the electromagnetic fields, single neuron responses, and
neural population modulation induced by electric and magnetic brain
stimulation. These models are calibrated and validated with experimental
neural recordings through various collaborations. Apart from understanding of
mechanisms, we develop modeling, algorithmic, and targeting tools for response
estimation, dose individualization, and precise localization of transcranial
brain stimulation using advanced techniques such as artificial neural networks
and machine learning. Moreover, BSEL is involved in the integration of
transcranial brain stimulation with robotics, neuronavigation, intracranial
electrophysiology recordings, and imaging modalities such as functional
magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and electroencephalography (EEG), as well as
the evaluation of the safety of device–device interactions, for example
between transcranial stimulators and implants. Importantly, we collaborate
widely with neuroscientists and clinicians within Duke and at other
institutions to translate developments from the lab to research and clinical
applications. For over 15 years, BSEL has been continuously supported with
multiple NIH grants as well as funding by DARPA, NSF, Brain & Behavior
Research Foundation, Coulter Foundation, Duke Institute for Brain Sciences,
MEDx, Duke University Energy Initiative, and industry. Further, some of our
technology has been commercialized, for example as ElevateTMS cTMS, or
incorporated in free software packages, such as SimNIBS.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Associate Professor in Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences
  * Associate Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer
    Engineering
  * Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering
  * Associate Professor in Neurosurgery
  * Faculty Network Member of the Duke Institute for Brain Sciences
  * Faculty Network Member of The Energy Initiative

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** Dept. Psychiatry & Behavioral, Box 3620 DUMC, Durham,
    NC 27710
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 684-0383
  * **Email Address:** angel.peterchev@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Brain Stimulation Engineering Lab
    * Google Scholar
    * ORCiD

## Education

  * B.A. Harvard University , 1999
  * M.S. University of California - Berkeley, 2002
  * Ph.D. University of California - Berkeley, 2005

## Courses Taught

  * BME 394: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 493: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 494: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * ECE 431: Power Electronic Circuits for Energy Conversion
  * ECE 494: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * ECE 531: Power Electronic Circuits for Energy Conversion
  * ECE 899: Special Readings in Electrical Engineering
  * ENERGY 396: Connections in Energy: Interdisciplinary Team Projects
  * ENRGYEGR 431: Power Electronic Circuits for Energy Conversion
  * ENRGYEGR 531: Power Electronic Circuits for Energy Conversion

## In the News

  * Energy Initiative-Supported Project Connects Brain Science with Electric
    Cars (…
  * A shocking result: Study finds new trend of applying electric currents to
    your …
  * Energy Initiative Provides First Round of Research Seed Funding (Apr 16,
    2014)

## Representative Publications

  * Peterchev, Angel V., Kevin DʼOstilio, John C. Rothwell, and David L.
    Murphy. “Controllable pulse parameter transcranial magnetic stimulator
    with enhanced circuit topology and pulse shaping.” J Neural Eng 11, no. 5
    (October 2014): 056023. https://doi.org/10.1088/1741-2560/11/5/056023.
  * Mueller, Jerel K., Erinn M. Grigsby, Vincent Prevosto, Frank W. Petraglia,
    Hrishikesh Rao, Zhi-De Deng, Angel V. Peterchev, et al. “Simultaneous
    transcranial magnetic stimulation and single-neuron recording in alert
    non-human primates.” Nat Neurosci 17, no. 8 (August 2014): 1130–36.
    https://doi.org/10.1038/nn.3751.
  * Peterchev, Angel V., Stefan M. Goetz, Gregory G. Westin, Bruce Luber, and
    Sarah H. Lisanby. “Pulse width dependence of motor threshold and input-
    output curve characterized with controllable pulse parameter transcranial
    magnetic stimulation.” Clin Neurophysiol 124, no. 7 (July 2013): 1364–72.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.clinph.2013.01.011.
  * Goetz, Stefan M., Cong Nam Truong, Manuel G. Gerhofer, Angel V. Peterchev,
    Hans-Georg Herzog, and Thomas Weyh. “Analysis and optimization of pulse
    dynamics for magnetic stimulation.” Plos One 8, no. 3 (2013): e55771.
    https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0055771.
  * Peterchev, Angel V., Timothy A. Wagner, Pedro C. Miranda, Michael A.
    Nitsche, Walter Paulus, Sarah H. Lisanby, Alvaro Pascual-Leone, and Marom
    Bikson. “Fundamentals of transcranial electric and magnetic stimulation
    dose: definition, selection, and reporting practices.” Brain Stimul 5, no.
    4 (October 2012): 435–53. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.brs.2011.10.001.
  * Lee, Won Hee, Zhi-De Deng, Tae-Seong Kim, Andrew F. Laine, Sarah H.
    Lisanby, and Angel V. Peterchev. “Regional electric field induced by
    electroconvulsive therapy in a realistic finite element head model:
    influence of white matter anisotropic conductivity.” Neuroimage 59, no. 3
    (February 1, 2012): 2110–23.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2011.10.029.
  * Peterchev, Angel V., David L. Murphy, and Sarah H. Lisanby. “Repetitive
    transcranial magnetic stimulator with controllable pulse parameters.” J
    Neural Eng 8, no. 3 (June 2011): 036016.
    https://doi.org/10.1088/1741-2560/8/3/036016.
  * Deng, Zhi-De, Sarah H. Lisanby, and Angel V. Peterchev. “Electric field
    strength and focality in electroconvulsive therapy and magnetic seizure
    therapy: a finite element simulation study.” J Neural Eng 8, no. 1
    (February 2011): 016007. https://doi.org/10.1088/1741-2560/8/1/016007.
  * Peterchev, Angel V., Moacyr A. Rosa, Zhi-De Deng, Joan Prudic, and Sarah
    H. Lisanby. “Electroconvulsive therapy stimulus parameters: rethinking
    dosage.” J Ect 26, no. 3 (September 2010): 159–74.
    https://doi.org/10.1097/YCT.0b013e3181e48165.
  * Peterchev, Angel V., Reza Jalinous, and Sarah H. Lisanby. “A transcranial
    magnetic stimulator inducing near-rectangular pulses with controllable
    pulse width (cTMS).” Ieee Trans Biomed Eng 55, no. 1 (January 2008):
    257–66. https://doi.org/10.1109/TBME.2007.900540.
  * Peterchev, A. V., and S. R. Sanders. “Quantization resolution and limit
    cycling in digitally controlled PWM converters.” Ieee Transactions on
    Power Electronics 18, no. 1 II (2003): 301–8.
    https://doi.org/10.1109/TPEL.2002.807092.

## News from Duke BME

April 14, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Integrated Design Challenge Restores Balance to the Force

March 28, 2023 | **_Duke Institute for Brain Sciences_**

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 20, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

View all news

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

