Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Barry S. Myers

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Dr. Myers has been a member of the Duke faculty since 1991 and has just
completed a three-year role as Managing Director of Licensing and Ventures.
His research examines the biomechanics of head and neck injury with the goal
of injury prevention. Dr. Myers founded and directs the Coulter Foundation
Translational Partnership Program at Duke that provides $1 MM in early stage
funding and management to faculty health care innovations annually with a goal
of licensing and creating new life science start-up companies. He is also
Director of Innovation in the newly formed Duke CTSI where he is responsible
for the consult service that provides funding and project management support
to faculty translational research projects in the Duke Medical Center. Dr.
Myers created and leads a national translational research fund intended to
reduce injuries in professional football
(https://www.playsmartplaysafe.com/headhealthtech/). Taken together he
oversees over $3,000,000/year in funding for life science projects. He also
maintains an active consulting practice including the NFL-PA and NASCAR while
serving as an Executive-in-Residence at Pappas Ventures advising several
start-up companies.

Dr. Myers is considered by many as the preeminent researcher in his field
worldwide, having over 100 manuscripts and publications on the subject. Among
Dr. Myers many honors are the Stapp Award of Recognition, and the Isbrandt
Award for automotive safety from the Society of Automotive Engineers. He is
the six-time winner of the Stapp Award for research in impact biomechanics,
more than any other individual, and also the Bertil Aldman award for impact
biomechanics research. Dr. Myers has worked with all major organizations
concerned with safety in the United States including the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration, the Consumer Product Safety Commission and the
National Operating Committee on Standards for Athletic Equipment. Because of
his breadth of experience in injury prevention, Dr. Myers was appointed to the
position of Senior Scientific Advisor to the National Center for Injury
Prevention and Control for two years. He has also consulted with most major
automobile manufactures and automotive racing organizations worldwide.

Dr. Myers is a Distinguished Professor at Duke University, having received the
Bass Chair in recognition of his accomplishments in research and teaching. He
is the faculty advisor to four student best graduate student paper competition
winners at national meetings. He was responsible for the 2004 revision of the
Pratt School of Engineering undergraduate curriculum. He has served as
Director of Undergraduate Studies and Director of Graduate Studies for the
Department of Biomedical Engineering. He has also served as Senior Associate
Dean for Industrial Partnerships and the Director of the Center for
Entrepreneurship and Research Commercialization in the Pratt School of
Engineering.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor of Biomedical Engineering
  * Core Faculty in Innovation & Entrepreneurship
  * Bass Fellow

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** Box 90281, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5150
  * **Email Address:** bsm@dm.duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Duke Coulter Translational Partnership
    * Google Scholar
    * http://biomechanics.bme.duke.edu

## Education

  * B.S. University of Toronto (Canada), 1985
  * M.D. Duke University School of Medicine, 1991
  * Ph.D. Duke University, 1991
  * M.B.A. Duke University, 2004

## Research Interests

An expert in head and neck impact injury biomechanics, Dr. Myers is interested
in translational research innovation—overseeing programs to advance faculty
research to market.

## In the News

  * Shedding light on cancer (Sep 12, 2017 | Duke Clinical & Translational
    Science …

## Representative Publications

  * Bailey, Ann M., James R. Funk, Jeff R. Crandall, Barry S. Myers, and
    Kristy B. Arbogast. “Laboratory Evaluation of Shell Add-On Products for
    American Football Helmets for Professional Linemen.” Annals of Biomedical
    Engineering 49, no. 10 (October 2021): 2747–59.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s10439-021-02842-8.
  * Kent, Richard, Jason Forman, Ann Bailey, Joseph Cormier, Gwansik Park,
    Jeff Crandall, Kristy B. Arbogast, and Barry Myers. “Surface Contact
    Features, Impact Obliquity, and Preimpact Rotational Motion in Concussive
    Helmet-to-Ground Impacts: Assessment via a New Impact Test Device.” Annals
    of Biomedical Engineering 48, no. 11 (November 2020): 2639–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s10439-020-02621-x.
  * Bailey, Ann M., Erin J. Sanchez, Gwansik Park, Lee F. Gabler, James R.
    Funk, Jeff R. Crandall, Michael Wonnacott, Chris Withnall, Barry S. Myers,
    and Kristy B. Arbogast. “Development and Evaluation of a Test Method for
    Assessing the Performance of American Football Helmets.” Annals of
    Biomedical Engineering 48, no. 11 (November 2020): 2566–79.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s10439-020-02626-6.
  * Bailey, Ann M., Timothy L. McMurry, Joseph M. Cormier, James R. Funk, Jeff
    R. Crandall, Christina D. Mack, Barry S. Myers, and Kristy B. Arbogast.
    “Comparison of Laboratory and On-Field Performance of American Football
    Helmets.” Annals of Biomedical Engineering 48, no. 11 (November 2020):
    2531–41. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10439-020-02627-5.
  * Funk, James R., Ron Jadischke, Ann Bailey, Jeff Crandall, Joe McCarthy,
    Kristy Arbogast, and Barry Myers. “Laboratory Reconstructions of
    Concussive Helmet-to-Helmet Impacts in the National Football League.”
    Annals of Biomedical Engineering 48, no. 11 (November 2020): 2652–66.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s10439-020-02632-8.

## News from Duke BME

April 14, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Integrated Design Challenge Restores Balance to the Force

March 28, 2023 | **_Duke Institute for Brain Sciences_**

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 20, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

View all news

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

