Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Benjamin Yellen

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Associate Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science

Yellen's group is interested in developing highly parallel mechanisms for
controlling the transport and assembly of ensembles of objects ranging from
micron-sized colloidal particles to single cells. As of 2013, Professor Yellen
is active in two main areas of research:  
1) **Development of single cell analysis tools using magnetic circuits.** The
goal of this project is to develop an automated single cell analysis platform
that allows for highly flexible and highly parallel manipulation of single
cells. Our approach draws inspiration from electronic circuit theory through
the development highly flexible methods for transporting particles above
magnetic thin film patterns either reversibly (conductor) or irreversibly
(rectifier), storing cells in well-defined regions of space either temporarily
(capacitor) or permanently (data storage), switching current pathways at
selected junctions (transistor) and coordinating a large set of electronic
functions with few input wires (multiplexer). When combined with microfluidic
systems that allow for repeated doses of pharmaceuticals, we will have a
developed a platform that is ripe to have a major impact on the field of HIV
eradication and cancer suppression.  
2) **Multiparticle assembly of colloidal crystals**. The goal of this project
is to understand the formation and phase transitions occuring inside single
crystals composed of alloys of colloidal particles. Here, we are interested in
observing crystals forming from magnetic and non-magnetic colloidal particles
dispersed inside ferrofluid. We are just beginning to solve the questions of
how to grow large single crystals, and how to transform these crystals by
tilting of an external magnetic field. The results of this project will serve
as useful models for understanding how crystals form and transform in the
corollary atomic scale materials in nature.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Associate Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and
    Materials Science

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 4304 Chesterfield Building, Box 90300, Durham, NC
    27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-8261
  * **Email Address:** yellen@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Google Scholar

## Education

  * Ph.D. Drexel University, 2004

## Research Interests

Development of single cell analysis tools using magnetic circuits, and
multiparticle assembly of colloidal crystals

## Courses Taught

  * ECE 494: Projects in Electrical and Computer Engineering

## In the News

  * Visualizing how matter changes from one state to another, on an atomic
    level (M…
  * Microchip-Like Technology Allows Single-Cell Analysis (May 14, 2014)

## Representative Publications

  * Yellen, Benjamin B., Jon S. Zawistowski, Eric A. Czech, Caleb I. Sanford,
    Elliott D. SoRelle, Micah A. Luftig, Zachary G. Forbes, Kris C. Wood, and
    Jeff Hammerbacher. “Massively parallel quantification of phenotypic
    heterogeneity in single-cell drug responses.” Sci Adv 7, no. 38 (September
    17, 2021): eabf9840. https://doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.abf9840.
  * Li, Linying, C Wyatt Shields, Jin Huang, Yiqun Zhang, Korine A. Ohiri,
    Benjamin B. Yellen, Ashutosh Chilkoti, and Gabriel P. López. “Rapid
    capture of biomolecules from blood via stimuli-responsive elastomeric
    particles for acoustofluidic separation.” The Analyst 145, no. 24 (January
    2021): 8087–96. https://doi.org/10.1039/d0an01164a.
  * Li, Ying, Jeffrey D. Motschman, Sean T. Kelly, and Benjamin B. Yellen.
    “Injection Molded Microfluidics for Establishing High-Density Single Cell
    Arrays in an Open Hydrogel Format.” Analytical Chemistry 92, no. 3
    (February 2020): 2794–2801. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.analchem.9b05099.
  * Ohiri, Korine A., Sean T. Kelly, Jeffrey D. Motschman, Kevin H. Lin, Kris
    C. Wood, and Benjamin B. Yellen. “An acoustofluidic trap and transfer
    approach for organizing a high density single cell array.” Lab Chip 18,
    no. 14 (July 10, 2018): 2124–33. https://doi.org/10.1039/c8lc00196k.
  * Pham, An T., Yuan Zhuang, Paige Detwiler, Joshua E. S. Socolar, Patrick
    Charbonneau, and Benjamin B. Yellen. “Phase diagram and aggregation
    dynamics of a monolayer of paramagnetic colloids.” Physical Review. E 95,
    no. 5–1 (May 2017): 052607. https://doi.org/10.1103/physreve.95.052607.

## News from Duke BME

April 14, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Integrated Design Challenge Restores Balance to the Force

March 28, 2023 | **_Duke Institute for Brain Sciences_**

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 20, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

View all news

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

