Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Blake Shaw Wilson

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Adjunct Professor in the Department of Head and Neck Surgery & Communication
Sciences

Prof. Wilson is the Director of the Duke Hearing Center and is an Adjunct or
Consulting Professor in each of three departments at Duke: Head and Neck
Surgery & Communication Sciences, Biomedical Engineering, and Electrical and
Computer Engineering. He has been involved in the development of the cochlear
implant (CI) for four decades and is the inventor of many of the signal
processing strategies used with the present-day CIs. One of his papers, in the
journal Nature, is the most highly cited publication in the principal field of
CIs. He also has become keenly interested in global hearing healthcare and
presently is the Chair of the Lancet Commission on Hearing Loss. He or he and
his teams or colleagues have been recognized with a high number of awards and
honors, including the 2015 Russ Prize, “for engineering cochlear implants that
allow the deaf to hear,” and the 2013 Lasker~DeBakey Award, “for the
development of the modern cochlear implant – a device that bestows hearing to
individuals with profound deafness.” The Russ Prize is the world’s top honor
for bioengineering and the Lasker Awards are second only to the Nobel Prize in
Physiology or Medicine for recognizing advances in medicine and medical
science. Prof. Wilson is a recipient of the Distinguished Alumni Award from
the Pratt School of Engineering at Duke (in 2007) and from the University as a
whole (in 2019; the 42nd recipient of that Award). Additionally, he is a
member of the USA’s National Academy of Engineering and is a Fellow of the
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, the Acoustical Society of
America, and the National Academy of Inventors.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Adjunct Professor in the Department of Head and Neck Surgery &
    Communication Sciences
  * Scholar in Residence in the Pratt School of Engineering
  * Adjunct Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * Consulting Professor of Biomedical Engineering
  * Affiliate, Duke Global Health Institute

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 2410 Wrightwood Ave., Durham, NC 27710
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 475-6135
  * **Email Address:** blake.wilson@duke.edu

## Education

  * B.S.E.E. Duke University, 1974
  * D.Sc. University of Warwick (United Kingdom), 2013
  * D.Eng. University of Technology Sydney (Australia), 2014
  * Ph.D. Duke University, 2015

## In the News

  * Two Duke Scholars Received North Carolina's Highest Honor (Nov 15, 2021)
  * Nightingale, Wilson Elected Fellows of the National Academy of Inventors
    (Dec 6…
  * Global Health Discussion on Hearing Loss Coming to Duke and Duke-NUS (Oct
    21, 2…
  * Alumni to Honor Two Faculty for Research, Teaching Advancements During
    Founders…
  * Large-Scale, Collaborative Effort Could Help Ease Global Hearing Loss (Jul
    11, …
  * Blake Wilson Elected to the National Academy of Engineering (Feb 10, 2017
    | Pra…
  * Blake Wilson on Engineering for the Hearing Impaired (Mar 17, 2015)
  * Duke in Pictures: Blake Wilson Marks Pratt's 75th Anniversary (Mar 6,
    2015)
  * Pratt to Celebrate 75th Anniversary with Address from Cochlear Implant
    Pioneer …
  * Wilson Awarded National Academy of Engineering's Prestigious Russ Prize
    (Jan 7,…
  * National Academy of Engineering Awards Wilson with The Russ Prize (Jan 7,
    2015 …
  * Blake Wilson Named 2015 IEEE Fellow (Dec 12, 2014)
  * Editorial: Duke scientist's contribution helps deaf children hear (Sep 16,
    2013…
  * Lasker Awards for medical advances go to five scientists and Gateses (Sep
    9, 20…
  * Lasker Honor for Cochlear Implant Pioneer Wilson (Sep 6, 2013)

## Representative Publications

  * Wilson, Blake S. “Getting a decent (but sparse) signal to the brain for
    users of cochlear implants.” Hear Res 322 (April 2015): 24–38.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heares.2014.11.009.
  * Wilson, Blake S. “Toward better representations of sound with cochlear
    implants.” Nat Med 19, no. 10 (October 2013): 1245–48.
    https://doi.org/10.1038/nm.3343.
  * Tucci, Debara, Michael H. Merson, and Blake S. Wilson. “A summary of the
    literature on global hearing impairment: current status and priorities for
    action.” Otol Neurotol 31, no. 1 (January 2010): 31–41.
    https://doi.org/10.1097/mao.0b013e3181c0eaec.
  * Wilson, Blake S., and Michael F. Dorman. “Cochlear implants: a remarkable
    past and a brilliant future.” Hear Res 242, no. 1–2 (August 2008): 3–21.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heares.2008.06.005.
  * Wilson, Blake S., and Michael F. Dorman. “Cochlear implants: current
    designs and future possibilities.” J Rehabil Res Dev 45, no. 5 (2008):
    695–730. https://doi.org/10.1682/jrrd.2007.10.0173.
  * Wilson, Blake S., and Michael F. Dorman. “The surprising performance of
    present-day cochlear implants.” Ieee Trans Biomed Eng 54, no. 6 Pt 1 (June
    2007): 969–72. https://doi.org/10.1109/TBME.2007.893505.
  * An, Soon Kwan, Se-Ik Park, Sang Beom Jun, Choong Jae Lee, Kyung Min Byun,
    Jung Hyun Sung, Blake S. Wilson, Stephen J. Rebscher, Seung Ha Oh, and
    Sung June Kim. “Design for a simplified cochlear implant system.” Ieee
    Trans Biomed Eng 54, no. 6 Pt 1 (June 2007): 973–82.
    https://doi.org/10.1109/TBME.2007.895372.
  * Wilson, Blake S., Reinhold Schatzer, Enrique A. Lopez-Poveda, Xiaoan Sun,
    Dewey T. Lawson, and Robert D. Wolford. “Two new directions in speech
    processor design for cochlear implants.” Ear Hear 26, no. 4 Suppl (August
    2005): 73S-81S. https://doi.org/10.1097/00003446-200508001-00009.
  * Wilson, Blake S., Dewey T. Lawson, Joachim M. Muller, Richard S. Tyler,
    and Jan Kiefer. “Cochlear implants: some likely next steps.” Annu Rev
    Biomed Eng 5 (2003): 207–49.
    https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev.bioeng.5.040202.121645.
  * Rubinstein, J. T., B. S. Wilson, C. C. Finley, and P. J. Abbas.
    “Pseudospontaneous activity: stochastic independence of auditory nerve
    fibers with electrical stimulation.” Hear Res 127, no. 1–2 (January 1999):
    108–18. https://doi.org/10.1016/s0378-5955(98)00185-3.
  * Wilson, B. S., S. Rebscher, F. G. Zeng, R. V. Shannon, G. E. Loeb, D. T.
    Lawson, and M. Zerbi. “Design for an inexpensive but effective cochlear
    implant.” Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg 118, no. 2 (February 1998): 235–41.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/S0194-5998(98)80022-3.
  * Wilson, B. S., C. C. Finley, D. T. Lawson, and M. Zerbi. “Temporal
    representations with cochlear implants.” Am J Otol 18, no. 6 Suppl
    (November 1997): S30–34.
  * Wilson, B. S. “The future of cochlear implants.” Br J Audiol 31, no. 4
    (August 1997): 205–25. https://doi.org/10.3109/03005369709076795.
  * Wilson, B. S., D. T. Lawson, M. Zerbi, C. C. Finley, and R. D. Wolford.
    “New processing strategies in cochlear implantation.” Am J Otol 16, no. 5
    (September 1995): 669–75.
  * Wilson, B. S., D. T. Lawson, C. C. Finley, and R. D. Wolford. “Importance
    of patient and processor variables in determining outcomes with cochlear
    implants.” J Speech Hear Res 36, no. 2 (April 1993): 373–79.
    https://doi.org/10.1044/jshr.3602.373.
  * Wilson, B. S., C. C. Finley, D. T. Lawson, R. D. Wolford, D. K. Eddington,
    and W. M. Rabinowitz. “Better speech recognition with cochlear implants.”
    Nature 352, no. 6332 (July 18, 1991): 236–38.
    https://doi.org/10.1038/352236a0.
  * Wilson, B. S., C. C. Finley, J. C. Farmer, D. T. Lawson, B. A. Weber, R.
    D. Wolford, P. D. Kenan, M. W. White, M. M. Merzenich, and R. A.
    Schindler. “Comparative studies of speech processing strategies for
    cochlear implants.” Laryngoscope 98, no. 10 (October 1988): 1069–77.
    https://doi.org/10.1288/00005537-198810000-00009.

## News from Duke BME

April 14, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Integrated Design Challenge Restores Balance to the Force

March 28, 2023 | **_Duke Institute for Brain Sciences_**

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 20, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

View all news

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

