Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Craig S. Henriquez

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

A breakdown of the normal electrical activation sequence of the heart can
sometimes lead to a state of ventricular fibrillation in which the heart
ceases to function as an effective pump. Abnormal rhythms or arrhythmias often
result after an episode of ischemia (a localized reduction of blood flow to
the heart itself) which affects both the ionic processes necessary to elicit
an impulse and the passive electrical properties of the tissue. Identifying
the complex mechanisms of arrhythmogenesis will require experimentation as
well as mathematical and computer models.

Current projects include the application of the bidomain model to diseased
tissue to investigate how changes in tissue structure (both natural and
diseased induced) and changes in ionic current flow influences the nature of
conduction and the onset of arrhythmia.

Dr. Henriquez's group is also interested in developing realistic models that
will enable investigators to better interpret electrophysiological
measurements made in the clinic. For example, activation maps at the surface
of the heart are typically constructed based on the detection of specific
features of the surface extracellular recordings. However, for complex
activation, such as might arise during an arrhythmia, the features are
difficult to distinguish.

The use of models that simulate both activation and the resulting
extracellular potential and the application of signal processing techniques
can lead to a tool for constructing more meaningful maps from experimental
recordings during abnormal conduction. This works involves direct interaction
with experimental research performed in the Experimental Electrophysiology
Laboratory under the direction of Dr. Patrick Wolf and the Cardiac
Electrophysiology & Tissue Engineering lab under the direction of Dr. Nenad
Bursac.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor of Biomedical Engineering
  * Faculty Network Member of the Duke Institute for Brain Sciences
  * Bass Fellow

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 274 Hudson Hall Annex, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5168
  * **Email Address:** ch@duke.edu

## Education

  * B.S. Duke University, 1981
  * Ph.D. Duke University, 1988

## Research Interests

Large-scale computing, heart modeling, and brain modeling.

## Courses Taught

  * BME 244L9: Quantitative Physiology with Biostatistical Applications
  * BME 244L: Quantitative Physiology with Biostatistical Applications
  * BME 493: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 494: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 503: Computational Neuroengineering (GE, EL)
  * BME 790: Advanced Topics for Graduate Students in Biomedical Engineering
  * BME 791: Graduate Independent Study
  * BME 792: Continuation of Graduate Independent Study
  * EGR 393: Research Projects in Engineering
  * NEUROSCI 503: Computational Neuroengineering (GE, EL)

## Representative Publications

  * Nguyen, Hung X., Tianyu Wu, Daniel Needs, Hengtao Zhang, Robin M. Perelli,
    Sophia DeLuca, Rachel Yang, et al. “Engineered bacterial voltage-gated
    sodium channel platform for cardiac gene therapy.” Nat Commun 13, no. 1
    (February 2, 2022): 620. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-022-28251-6.
  * Rossi, Simone, Laryssa Abdala, Andrew Woodward, John P. Vavalle, Craig S.
    Henriquez, and Boyce E. Griffith. “Rule-based definition of muscle bundles
    in patient-specific models of the left atrium.” Frontiers in Physiology 13
    (January 2022): 912947. https://doi.org/10.3389/fphys.2022.912947.
  * Henriquez, C. S., and W. Ying. “The bidomain model of cardiac tissue: from
    microscale to macroscale.” In Cardiac Bioelectric Therapy: Mechanisms and
    Practical Implications, 211–23, 2021.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-63355-4_15.
  * Pelot, Nicole A., David C. Catherall, Brandon J. Thio, Nathan D. Titus,
    Edward D. Liang, Craig S. Henriquez, and Warren M. Grill. “Excitation
    properties of computational models of unmyelinated peripheral axons.”
    Journal of Neurophysiology 125, no. 1 (January 2021): 86–104.
    https://doi.org/10.1152/jn.00315.2020.
  * Gaeta, Stephen, Tristram D. Bahnson, and Craig Henriquez. “High-Resolution
    Measurement of Local Activation Time Differences From Bipolar Electrogram
    Amplitude.” Front Physiol 12 (2021): 653645.
    https://doi.org/10.3389/fphys.2021.653645.

## News from Duke BME

April 14, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Integrated Design Challenge Restores Balance to the Force

March 28, 2023 | **_Duke Institute for Brain Sciences_**

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 20, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

View all news

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

