Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Cynthia Ann Toth

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Joseph A.C. Wadsworth Distinguished Professor of Ophthalmology

RESEARCH INTERESTS  
  
Dr. Toth specializes in the evaluation and surgical treatment of vitreoretinal
diseases in infants, children and adults, and in novel research resulting in
the clinical application of optical coherence tomography (OCT) imaging in
surgery and at the bedside. Her clinical interests and skills include the
surgical treatment of macular diseases (such as, macular hole, epiretinal
membrane and vitreomacular traction), retinal detachment, proliferative
diabetic retinopathy, proliferative vitreoretinopathy (PVR), and retinopathy
of prematurity (ROP).  
  
Dr. Toth is a world expert in retinal imaging with optical coherence
tomography (OCT) and pioneered both the first use of a research hand-held
spectral domain OCT system for infant examination and the first intraoperative
OCT-guided ophthalmic surgical system. For infants and children, Dr. Toth's
multidisciplinary team has demonstrated novel eye findings that are visible
only with OCT imaging and that are often associated with brain disease or
challenges of brain development. In surgery, Dr. Toth performed the world's
first intraoperative OCT imaging and the first swept-source OCT imaging with
heads-up display during retinal surgery. With colleagues in the Duke Eye
Center and in Biomedical Engineering, she perfecting such techniques. She has
been repeatedly honored among the Best Doctors in America.  
  
Dr. Toth is also professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering in the
Pratt School of Engineering. Her primary research interests are in
translational research and early-application clinical trials with a focus on
novel retinal imaging with spectral domain and swept source optical coherence
tomography (SD and SSOCT). Dr. Toth's Laboratory, the Duke Advanced Research
in Spectral Domain/Swept Source OCT Imaging (DARSI) Laboratory centers on
improving early diagnostic methods, imaging biomarkers and therapies for both
age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and for retinal diseases in children.
Sina Farsiu, PhD, has collaborated to provide advanced image processing for
OCT with in the DARSI Laboratory. In collaboration with Joseph Izatt, PhD in
Biomedical Engineering, the DARSI team is currently applying OCT to the
diagnosis and care of retinal diseases and especially in microsurgery in
adults and in children in several studies including NIH funded investigations.  
  
Dr. Toth was also co-founder and has been the Director of Grading for OCT for
the Duke Reading Center and has designed and directed OCT analysis for
numerous multicenter clinical trials including the Comparisons of AMD
Treatment Trials (CATT). The Duke Reading Center provides support in training,
data acquisition, and grading for multicenter clinical trials utilizing
optical coherence tomography as an outcome measure.  
  
Dr. Toth chaired the multicenter Age Related Eye Disease Study 2 Ancillary
SDOCT (A2ASDOCT) Study and has participated as site PI in the AREDS2. She also
led studies of macular translocation surgery (MT360) for patients with severe
AMD, along with co-investigator Dr. Sharon Freedman. Macular translocation
surgery was a salvage treatment for AMD patients who lost vision due to
neovascular AMD, prior to the current era of anti-Vascular Endothelial Growth
Factor treatments. The surgery resulted in an auto-transplant of the retina,
isolating the retina from the underlying choroidal and retinal pigment
epithelial pathology. Imaging and retinal function data from those studies
have contributed to teasing out events in the macula related to vision loss.  
  
Learn More about the Toth-DARSI Lab

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Joseph A.C. Wadsworth Distinguished Professor of Ophthalmology
  * Professor of Ophthalmology
  * Vice-Chair of Clinical Research
  * Professor of Biomedical Engineering

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** Duke Eye Center, Hudson Bldg., 2351 Erwin Road,
    Durham, NC 27705
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 684-5631
  * **Email Address:** cynthia.toth@duke.edu

## Education

  * M.D. Drexel University, 1983
  * Geisinger Medical Center, 1987
  * University of California, Davis, School of Medicine, 1991

## In the News

  * Cynthia Toth's 25-Years of Revolutionizing Eye Care and Surgery (Oct 14,
    2022 |…
  * New handheld device could allow for easy retina imaging in children (Aug
    10, 20…
  * Duke Announces 2015 Distinguished Professors (May 1, 2015)
  * Retinal Swelling in Premature Infants Tied to Poorer Neuro-Development
    (Feb 24,…
  * Eye doctors warn of damage from lasers (Jan 15, 2014 | Fox News)

## Representative Publications

  * Maldonado, Ramiro S., and Cynthia A. Toth. “Optical coherence tomography
    in retinopathy of prematurity: looking beyond the vessels.” Clin Perinatol
    40, no. 2 (June 2013): 271–96. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.clp.2013.02.007.
  * Mettu, Priyatham S., Neeru Sarin, Sandra S. Stinnett, and Cynthia A. Toth.
    “Recovery of the neurosensory retina after macular translocation surgery
    is independent of preoperative macular sensitivity in neovascular age-
    related macular degeneration.” Retina 31, no. 8 (September 2011): 1637–49.
    https://doi.org/10.1097/IAE.0b013e31821800e0.
  * Lee, Annie C., Ramiro S. Maldonado, Neeru Sarin, Rachelle V. O’Connell,
    David K. Wallace, Sharon F. Freedman, Michael Cotten, and Cynthia A. Toth.
    “Macular features from spectral-domain optical coherence tomography as an
    adjunct to indirect ophthalmoscopy in retinopathy of prematurity.” Retina
    31, no. 8 (September 2011): 1470–82.
    https://doi.org/10.1097/IAE.0b013e31821dfa6d.
  * Ehlers, Justis P., Yuankai K. Tao, Sina Farsiu, Ramiro Maldonado, Joseph
    A. Izatt, and Cynthia A. Toth. “Integration of a spectral domain optical
    coherence tomography system into a surgical microscope for intraoperative
    imaging.” Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci 52, no. 6 (May 16, 2011): 3153–59.
    https://doi.org/10.1167/iovs.10-6720.
  * Maldonado, Ramiro S., Sharon F. Freedman, C Michael Cotten, Jeffrey M.
    Ferranti, and Cynthia A. Toth. “Reversible retinal edema in an infant with
    neonatal hemochromatosis and liver failure.” J Aapos 15, no. 1 (February
    2011): 91–93. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaapos.2010.11.016.
  * Day, Shelley, Ramiro S. Maldonado, and Cynthia A. Toth. “Preretinal and
    intraretinal exudates in familial exudative vitreoretinopathy.” Retina 31,
    no. 1 (January 2011): 190–91.
    https://doi.org/10.1097/IAE.0b013e3182019c04.
  * Ehlers, Justis P., Ramiro Maldonado, Neeru Sarin, and Cynthia A. Toth.
    “Treatment of non-age-related macular degeneration submacular diseases
    with macular translocation surgery.” Retina 31, no. 7 (2011): 1337–46.
    https://doi.org/10.1097/IAE.0b013e31820668cf.
  * Ehlers, Justis P., Preeya K. Gupta, Sina Farsiu, Ramiro Maldonado, Terry
    Kim, Cynthia A. Toth, and Prithvi Mruthyunjaya. “Evaluation of contrast
    agents for enhanced visualization in optical coherence tomography.” Invest
    Ophthalmol Vis Sci 51, no. 12 (December 2010): 6614–19.
    https://doi.org/10.1167/iovs.10-6195.
  * Tao, Yuankai K., Justis P. Ehlers, Cynthia A. Toth, and Joseph A. Izatt.
    “Intraoperative spectral domain optical coherence tomography for
    vitreoretinal surgery.” Opt Lett 35, no. 20 (October 15, 2010): 3315–17.
    https://doi.org/10.1364/OL.35.003315.
  * Jain, Nieraj, Sina Farsiu, Aziz A. Khanifar, Srilaxmi Bearelly, R Theodore
    Smith, Joseph A. Izatt, and Cynthia A. Toth. “Quantitative comparison of
    drusen segmented on SD-OCT versus drusen delineated on color fundus
    photographs.” Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci 51, no. 10 (October 2010):
    4875–83. https://doi.org/10.1167/iovs.09-4962.
  * Robinson, M Dirk, Cynthia A. Toth, Joseph Y. Lo, and Sina Farsiu.
    “Efﬁcient fourier-wavelet super-resolution.” Ieee Trans Image Process 19,
    no. 10 (October 2010): 2669–81. https://doi.org/10.1109/TIP.2010.2050107.
  * Chiu, Stephanie J., Xiao T. Li, Peter Nicholas, Cynthia A. Toth, Joseph A.
    Izatt, and Sina Farsiu. “Automatic segmentation of seven retinal layers in
    SDOCT images congruent with expert manual segmentation.” Opt Express 18,
    no. 18 (August 30, 2010): 19413–28. https://doi.org/10.1364/OE.18.019413.
  * Maldonado, Ramiro S., Joseph A. Izatt, Neeru Sarin, David K. Wallace,
    Sharon Freedman, C Michael Cotten, and Cynthia A. Toth. “Optimizing hand-
    held spectral domain optical coherence tomography imaging for neonates,
    infants, and children.” Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci 51, no. 5 (May 2010):
    2678–85. https://doi.org/10.1167/iovs.09-4403.
  * Chavala, Sai H., Sina Farsiu, Ramiro Maldonado, David K. Wallace, Sharon
    F. Freedman, and Cynthia A. Toth. “Insights into advanced retinopathy of
    prematurity using handheld spectral domain optical coherence tomography
    imaging.” Ophthalmology 116, no. 12 (December 2009): 2448–56.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ophtha.2009.06.003.
  * Ronan, Shawn M., Khanh-Nhat Tran-Viet, Erica L. Burner, Ravikanth
    Metlapally, Cynthia A. Toth, and Terri L. Young. “Mutational hot spot
    potential of a novel base pair mutation of the CSPG2 gene in a family with
    Wagner syndrome.” Arch Ophthalmol 127, no. 11 (November 2009): 1511–19.
    https://doi.org/10.1001/archophthalmol.2009.273.
  * Bearelly, Srilaxmi, Felix Y. Chau, Anjum Koreishi, Sandra S. Stinnett,
    Joseph A. Izatt, and Cynthia A. Toth. “Spectral domain optical coherence
    tomography imaging of geographic atrophy margins.” Ophthalmology 116, no.
    9 (September 2009): 1762–69. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ophtha.2009.04.015.
  * Brown, Ninita H., Anjum F. Koreishi, Michelle McCall, Joseph A. Izatt,
    Catherine Bowes Rickman, and Cynthia A. Toth. “Developing SDOCT to assess
    donor human eyes prior to tissue sectioning for research.” Graefes Arch
    Clin Exp Ophthalmol 247, no. 8 (August 2009): 1069–80.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s00417-009-1044-3.
  * Schuman, Stefanie G., Anjum F. Koreishi, Sina Farsiu, Sin-ho Jung, Joseph
    A. Izatt, and Cynthia A. Toth. “Photoreceptor layer thinning over drusen
    in eyes with age-related macular degeneration imaged in vivo with
    spectral-domain optical coherence tomography.” Ophthalmology 116, no. 3
    (March 2009): 488-496.e2. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ophtha.2008.10.006.
  * Scott, Adrienne W., Sina Farsiu, Laura B. Enyedi, David K. Wallace, and
    Cynthia A. Toth. “Imaging the infant retina with a hand-held spectral-
    domain optical coherence tomography device.” Am J Ophthalmol 147, no. 2
    (February 2009): 364-373.e2. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajo.2008.08.010.
  * Chong, Gabriel T., Sina Farsiu, Sharon F. Freedman, Neeru Sarin, Anjum F.
    Koreishi, Joseph A. Izatt, and Cynthia A. Toth. “Abnormal foveal
    morphology in ocular albinism imaged with spectral-domain optical
    coherence tomography.” Arch Ophthalmol 127, no. 1 (January 2009): 37–44.
    https://doi.org/10.1001/archophthalmol.2008.550.
  * Dayani, Pouya N., Ramiro Maldonado, Sina Farsiu, and Cynthia A. Toth.
    “Intraoperative use of handheld spectral domain optical coherence
    tomography imaging in macular surgery.” Retina 29, no. 10 (2009): 1457–68.
    https://doi.org/10.1097/IAE.0b013e3181b266bc.
  * Khanifar, Aziz A., Anjum F. Koreishi, Joseph A. Izatt, and Cynthia A.
    Toth. “Drusen ultrastructure imaging with spectral domain optical
    coherence tomography in age-related macular degeneration.” Ophthalmology
    115, no. 11 (November 2008): 1883–90.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ophtha.2008.04.041.
  * Stopa, Marcin, Bradley A. Bower, Emily Davies, Joseph A. Izatt, and
    Cynthia A. Toth. “Correlation of pathologic features in spectral domain
    optical coherence tomography with conventional retinal studies.” Retina
    28, no. 2 (February 2008): 298–308.
    https://doi.org/10.1097/IAE.0b013e3181567798.
  * Holgado, Sandra, Cynthia A. Toth, and Sharon F. Freedman. “Quantifying
    vertical angle kappa after macular translocation surgery: a new use for
    the synoptophore.” Strabismus 16, no. 4 (2008): 139–43.
    https://doi.org/10.1080/09273970802505136.
  * Zhang, Nanfei, Greg C. Hoffmeyer, Ellen S. Young, Russell E. Burns,
    Katrina P. Winter, Sandra S. Stinnett, Cynthia A. Toth, and Glenn J.
    Jaffe. “Optical coherence tomography reader agreement in neovascular age-
    related macular degeneration.” Am J Ophthalmol 144, no. 1 (July 2007):
    37–44. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajo.2007.03.056.
  * Holgado, Sandra, Cynthia A. Toth, and Sharon F. Freedman. “Fixation switch
    and diplopia after full macular translocation surgery.” J Aapos 11, no. 2
    (April 2007): 114–19. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaapos.2006.10.008.
  * Postel, Eric A., Anita Agarwal, Jennifer Caldwell, Paul Gallins, Cynthia
    Toth, Silke Schmidt, William K. Scott, Michael A. Hauser, Jonathan L.
    Haines, and Margaret A. Pericak-Vance. “Complement factor H increases risk
    for atrophic age-related macular degeneration.” Ophthalmology 113, no. 9
    (September 2006): 1504–7. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ophtha.2006.02.049.
  * Grossniklaus, Hans E., David J. Wilson, Susan B. Bressler, Neil M.
    Bressler, Cynthia A. Toth, W Richard Green, and Päivi Miskala.
    “Clinicopathologic studies of eyes that were obtained postmortem from four
    patients who were enrolled in the submacular surgery trials: SST Report
    No. 16.” Am J Ophthalmol 141, no. 1 (January 2006): 93–104.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajo.2005.07.076.
  * Holgado, Sandra, Laura B. Enyedi, Cynthia A. Toth, and Sharon F. Freedman.
    “Extraocular muscle surgery for extorsion after macular translocation
    surgery new surgical technique and clinical management.” Ophthalmology
    113, no. 1 (January 2006): 63–69.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ophtha.2005.09.022.
  * Toth, Cynthia A. “Macular degeneration: the latest in current surgical
    management.” Retina 26, no. 6 Suppl (2006): S21–25.
    https://doi.org/10.1097/01.iae.0000236452.77898.08.
  * Stopa, Marcin, and Cynthia A. Toth. “A method to free retina and vitreous
    from intraoperative incarceration in the sclerotomy.” Retina 26, no. 9
    (2006): 1070–71. https://doi.org/10.1097/01.iae.0000247195.28648.eb.
  * Malek, G., L. V. Johnson, B. E. Mace, P. Saloupis, D. E. Schmechel, D. W.
    Rickman, C. A. Toth, P. M. Sullivan, and C. Bowes Rickman. “Apolipoprotein
    E allele-dependent pathogenesis: a model for age-related retinal
    degeneration.” Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 102, no. 33 (August 16, 2005):
    11900–905. https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.0503015102.
  * Cahill, Mark T., Prithvi Mruthyunjaya, Catherine Bowes Rickman, and
    Cynthia A. Toth. “Recurrence of retinal pigment epithelial changes after
    macular translocation with 360 degrees peripheral retinectomy for
    geographic atrophy.” Arch Ophthalmol 123, no. 7 (July 2005): 935–38.
    https://doi.org/10.1001/archopht.123.7.935.
  * Grossniklaus, Hans E., Päivi H. Miskala, W Richard Green, Susan B.
    Bressler, Barbara S. Hawkins, Cynthia Toth, David J. Wilson, and Neil M.
    Bressler. “Histopathologic and ultrastructural features of surgically
    excised subfoveal choroidal neovascular lesions: submacular surgery trials
    report no. 7.” Arch Ophthalmol 123, no. 7 (July 2005): 914–21.
    https://doi.org/10.1001/archopht.123.7.914.
  * Cahill, Mark T., Avie D. Banks, Sandra S. Stinnett, and Cynthia A. Toth.
    “Vision-related quality of life in patients with bilateral severe age-
    related macular degeneration.” Ophthalmology 112, no. 1 (January 2005):
    152–58. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ophtha.2004.06.036.
  * Cahill, Mark T., Sandra S. Stinnett, Avie D. Banks, Sharon F. Freedman,
    and Cynthia A. Toth. “Quality of life after macular translocation with 360
    degrees peripheral retinectomy for age-related macular degeneration.”
    Ophthalmology 112, no. 1 (January 2005): 144–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ophtha.2004.06.035.
  * Mruthyunjaya, Prithvi, Sandra S. Stinnett, and Cynthia A. Toth. “Impact of
    fluorescein angiographic characteristics of macular lesions on outcomes
    after macular translocation 360 degree surgery in eyes with age-related
    macular degeneration.” Retina 25, no. 5 (2005): 597–607.
    https://doi.org/10.1097/00006982-200507000-00010.
  * Hawkins, Barbara S., Neil M. Bressler, Susan B. Bressler, Frederick H.
    Davidorf, John C. Hoskins, Marta J. Marsh, Päivi H. Miskala, et al.
    “Surgical removal vs observation for subfoveal choroidal
    neovascularization, either associated with the ocular histoplasmosis
    syndrome or idiopathic: I. Ophthalmic findings from a randomized clinical
    trial: Submacular Surgery Trials (SST) Group H Trial: SST Report No. 9.”
    Arch Ophthalmol 122, no. 11 (November 2004): 1597–1611.
    https://doi.org/10.1001/archopht.122.11.1597.
  * Mruthyunjaya, Prithvi, Sandra S. Stinnett, and Cynthia A. Toth. “Change in
    visual function after macular translocation with 360 degrees retinectomy
    for neovascular age-related macular degeneration.” Ophthalmology 111, no.
    9 (September 2004): 1715–24. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ophtha.2004.03.022.
  * Czajka, Marcin P., Thomas J. Cummings, Brooks W. McCuen, Cynthia A. Toth,
    Hoang Nguyen, and Sharon Fekrat. “Radial optic neurotomy in the porcine
    eye without retinal vein occlusion.” Arch Ophthalmol 122, no. 8 (August
    2004): 1185–89. https://doi.org/10.1001/archopht.122.8.1185.
  * Toth, Cynthia A., Deborah J. Lapolice, Avie D. Banks, and Sandra S.
    Stinnett. “Improvement in near visual function after macular translocation
    surgery with 360-degree peripheral retinectomy.” Graefes Arch Clin Exp
    Ophthalmol 242, no. 7 (July 2004): 541–48.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s00417-004-0867-1.
  * Roach, William P., Clarence P. Cain, Drew G. Narayan, Gary D. Noojin,
    Stephen A. Boppart, Reginald Birngruber, James G. Fujimoto, and Cynthia A.
    Toth. “Retinal response of Macaca mulatta to picosecond laser pulses of
    varying energy and spot size.” J Biomed Opt 9, no. 6 (2004): 1288–96.
    https://doi.org/10.1117/1.1805554.
  * Park, Carl H., and Cynthia A. Toth. “Macular translocation surgery with
    360-degree peripheral retinectomy following ocular photodynamic therapy of
    choroidal neovascularization.” Am J Ophthalmol 136, no. 5 (November 2003):
    830–35. https://doi.org/10.1016/s0002-9394(03)00723-2.
  * Freedman, Sharon F., Sandra Holgado, Laura B. Enyedi, and Cynthia A. Toth.
    “Management of ocular torsion and diplopia after macular translocation for
    age-related macular degeneration: prospective clinical study.” Am J
    Ophthalmol 136, no. 4 (October 2003): 640–48.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/s0002-9394(03)00334-9.
  * Freedman, Sharon F., Matthew D. Gearinger, Laura B. Enyedi, Sandra
    Holgado, and Cynthia A. Toth. “Measurement of ocular torsion after macular
    translocation: disc fovea angle and Maddox rod.” J Aapos 7, no. 2 (April
    2003): 103–7. https://doi.org/10.1016/mpa.2003.S1091853103000107.
  * Cahill, Mark T., Sharon F. Freedman, and Cynthia A. Toth. “Macular
    translocation with 360 degrees peripheral retinectomy for geographic
    atrophy.” Arch Ophthalmol 121, no. 1 (January 2003): 132–33.
    https://doi.org/10.1001/archopht.121.1.132.
  * Oliveira, Leonardo B., Carsten H. Meyer, Janardan Kumar, Misako
    Tatebayashi, Cynthia A. Toth, Fulton Wong, David L. Epstein, and Brooks W.
    McCuen. “RGD peptide-assisted vitrectomy to facilitate induction of a
    posterior vitreous detachment: a new principle in pharmacological
    vitreolysis.” Curr Eye Res 25, no. 6 (December 2002): 333–40.
    https://doi.org/10.1076/ceyr.25.6.333.14234.
  * Negron, Laura A., Francesco Viola, Eric P. Black, Cynthia A. Toth, and
    William F. Walker. “Development and characterization of a vitreous
    mimicking material for radiation force imaging.” Ieee Trans Ultrason
    Ferroelectr Freq Control 49, no. 11 (November 2002): 1543–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1109/tuffc.2002.1049736.
  * Lai, James C., Deborah J. Lapolice, Sandra S. Stinnett, Carsten H. Meyer,
    Luz M. Arieu, Melissa A. Keller, and Cynthia A. Toth. “Visual outcomes
    following macular translocation with 360-degree peripheral retinectomy.”
    Arch Ophthalmol 120, no. 10 (October 2002): 1317–24.
    https://doi.org/10.1001/archopht.120.10.1317.
  * Ting, T Daniel, Mila Oh, Terry A. Cox, Carsten H. Meyer, and Cynthia A.
    Toth. “Decreased visual acuity associated with cystoid macular edema in
    neovascular age-related macular degeneration.” Arch Ophthalmol 120, no. 6
    (June 2002): 731–37. https://doi.org/10.1001/archopht.120.6.731.
  * Freedman, Sharon F., Maria Rojas, and Cynthia A. Toth. “Strabismus surgery
    for large-angle cyclotorsion after macular translocation surgery.” J Aapos
    6, no. 3 (June 2002): 154–62. https://doi.org/10.1067/mpa.2002.122363.
  * Cain, Clarence P., Cynthia A. Toth, Gary D. Noojin, David J. Stolarski,
    Robert J. Thomas, and Benjamin A. Rockwell. “Thresholds for retinal injury
    from multiple near-infrared ultrashort laser pulses.” Health Phys 82, no.
    6 (June 2002): 855–62. https://doi.org/10.1097/00004032-200206000-00014.
  * Mostafavi, Ramin, Sharon Fekrat, Cynthia A. Toth, and Terry Kim. “LASIK
    and vitreous pathology after LASIK.” Ophthalmology, April 2002.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/s0161-6420(02)00996-x.
  * Walton, Kelly A., Carsten H. Meyer, Curtis J. Harkrider, Terry A. Cox, and
    Cynthia A. Toth. “Age-related changes in vitreous mobility as measured by
    video B scan ultrasound.” Exp Eye Res 74, no. 2 (February 2002): 173–80.
    https://doi.org/10.1006/exer.2001.1136.
  * Thomas, Robert J., Gary D. Noojin, David J. Stolarski, Rebecca T. Hall,
    Clarence P. Cain, Cynthia A. Toth, and Benjamin A. Rockwell. “A
    comparative study of retinal effects from continuous wave and femtosecond
    mode-locked lasers.” Lasers Surg Med 31, no. 1 (2002): 9–17.
    https://doi.org/10.1002/lsm.10067.
  * Benner, J. D., C. H. Meyer, B. L. Shirkey, and C. A. Toth. “Macular
    translocation with radial scleral ouffolding: experimental studies and
    initial human results.” Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol 239, no. 11
    (November 2001): 815–23. https://doi.org/10.1007/s004170100339.
  * Kim, T., S. Krishnasamy, C. H. Meyer, and C. A. Toth. “Induced corneal
    astigmatism after macular translocation surgery with scleral infolding.”
    Ophthalmology 108, no. 7 (July 2001): 1203–8.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/s0161-6420(01)00578-4.
  * Meyer, C. H., and C. A. Toth. “Retinal pigment epithelial tear with
    vitreomacular attachment: a novel pathogenic feature.” Graefes Arch Clin
    Exp Ophthalmol 239, no. 5 (June 2001): 325–33.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s004170100259.
  * Au Eong, K. G., D. J. Pieramici, G. Y. Fujii, E. W. Ng, M. S. Humayun, M.
    Maia, J. B. Harlan, et al. “Macular translocation: unifying concepts,
    terminology, and classification.” Am J Ophthalmol 131, no. 2 (February
    2001): 244–53. https://doi.org/10.1016/s0002-9394(00)00788-1.
  * Haupert, C. L., B. W. McCuen, G. J. Jaffe, E. R. Steuer, T. A. Cox, C. A.
    Toth, S. Fekrat, and E. A. Postel. “Pars plana vitrectomy, subretinal
    injection of tissue plasminogen activator, and fluid-gas exchange for
    displacement of thick submacular hemorrhage in age-related macular
    degeneration.” Am J Ophthalmol 131, no. 2 (February 2001): 208–15.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/s0002-9394(00)00734-0.
  * Toth, C. A., E. K. Chiu, K. P. Winter, M. N. McCall, S. F. Bailey, C. J.
    Harkrider, and S. Hauger. “In-vivo response to free electron laser
    incision of the rabbit cornea.” Lasers Surg Med 29, no. 1 (2001): 44–52.
    https://doi.org/10.1002/lsm.1085.
  * Deramo, V. A., C. H. Meyer, and C. A. Toth. “Successful macular
    translocation with temporary scleral infolding using absorbable sture.”
    Retina 21, no. 4 (2001): 304–11.
    https://doi.org/10.1097/00006982-200108000-00002.
  * Toth, C. A., and S. F. Freedman. “Macular translocation with 360-degree
    peripheral retinectomy impact of technique and surgical experience on
    visual outcomes.” Retina 21, no. 4 (2001): 293–303.
    https://doi.org/10.1097/00006982-200108000-00001.
  * Cain, C. P., C. A. Toth, R. J. Thomas, G. D. Noojin, V. Carothers, D. J.
    Stolarski, and B. A. Rockwell. “Comparison of macular versus paramacular
    retinal sensitivity to femtosecond laser pulses.” J Biomed Opt 5, no. 3
    (July 2000): 315–20. https://doi.org/10.1117/1.430002.
  * Freedman, S. F., J. H. Seaber, E. G. Buckley, L. B. Enyedi, and C. A.
    Toth. “Combined superior oblique muscle recession and inferior oblique
    muscle advancement and transposition for cyclotorsion associated with
    macular translocation surgery.” J Aapos 4, no. 2 (April 2000): 75–83.
    https://doi.org/10.1067/mpa.2000.102925.
  * Jumper, J. M., R. P. Gallemore, B. W. McCuen, and C. A. Toth. “Features of
    macular hole closure in the early postoperative period using optical
    coherence tomography.” Retina 20, no. 3 (2000): 232–37.
  * Jumper, J. M., S. N. Embabi, C. A. Toth, I. I. McCuen BW, and D. L.
    Hatchell. “Electron immunocytochemical analysis of posterior hyaloid
    associated with diabetic macular edema.” Retina 20, no. 1 (2000): 63–68.
    https://doi.org/10.1097/00006982-200001000-00012.
  * Gallemore, R. P., J. M. Jumper, B. W. McCuen, G. J. Jaffe, E. A. Postel,
    and C. A. Toth. “Diagnosis of vitreoretinal adhesions in macular disease
    with optical coherence tomography.” Retina 20, no. 2 (2000): 115–20.
  * Cain, C. P., C. A. Toth, G. D. Noojin, V. Carothers, D. J. Stolarski, and
    B. A. Rockwell. “Thresholds for visible lesions in the primate eye
    produced by ultrashort near-infrared laser pulses.” Invest Ophthalmol Vis
    Sci 40, no. 10 (September 1999): 2343–49.
  * Rockwell, B. A., D. X. Hammer, R. A. Hopkins, D. J. Payne, C. A. Toth, W.
    P. Roach, J. J. Druessel, et al. “Ultrashort laser pulse bioeffects and
    safety.” J Laser Appl 11, no. 1 (February 1999): 42–44.
    https://doi.org/10.2351/1.521879.
  * De La Paz, M. A., Y. Itoh, C. A. Toth, and H. Nagase. “Matrix
    metalloproteinases and their inhibitors in human vitreous.” Invest
    Ophthalmol Vis Sci 39, no. 7 (June 1998): 1256–60.
  * Hatchell, D. L., S. N. Embabi, T. Maeno, P. Saloupis, G. Olson, R. D.
    Braun, and C. A. Toth. “Transplantation of feline islets of Langerhans in
    the subretinal space of cat eyes.” Transplant Proc 30, no. 2 (March 1998):
    593–95. https://doi.org/10.1016/s0041-1345(97)01421-8.
  * Toth, C. A., D. G. Narayan, S. A. Boppart, M. R. Hee, J. G. Fujimoto, R.
    Birngruber, C. P. Cain, C. D. DiCarlo, and W. P. Roach. “A comparison of
    retinal morphology viewed by optical coherence tomography and by light
    microscopy.” Arch Ophthalmol 115, no. 11 (November 1997): 1425–28.
    https://doi.org/10.1001/archopht.1997.01100160595012.
  * Toth, C. A., D. G. Narayan, C. P. Cain, G. D. Noojin, K. P. Winter, B. A.
    Rockwell, and W. P. Roach. “Pathology of macular lesions from
    subnanosecond pulses of visible laser energy.” Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci
    38, no. 11 (October 1997): 2204–13.
  * Hammer, D. X., G. D. Noojin, R. J. Thomas, C. E. Clary, B. A. Rockwell, C.
    A. Toth, and W. P. Roach. “Intraocular laser surgical probe for membrane
    disruption by laser-induced breakdown.” Appl Opt 36, no. 7 (March 1,
    1997): 1684–93. https://doi.org/10.1364/ao.36.001684.
  * Mittra, R. A., S. Dev, M. A. Nasir, and C. A. Toth. “Recombinant hirudin
    prevents postoperative fibrin formation after experimental cataract
    surgery.” Ophthalmology 104, no. 3 (March 1997): 558–61.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/s0161-6420(97)30275-9.
  * Toth, C. A., R. Birngruber, S. A. Boppart, M. R. Hee, J. G. Fujimoto, C.
    D. DiCarlo, E. A. Swanson, et al. “Argon laser retinal lesions evaluated
    in vivo by optical coherence tomography.” Am J Ophthalmol 123, no. 2
    (February 1997): 188–98. https://doi.org/10.1016/s0002-9394(14)71035-9.
  * Toth, C. A., M. A. Nasir, C. L. Ho, and R. A. Mittra. “Intraocular
    injection of recombinant hirudin to prevent experimental postoperative
    fibrin.” Retina 17, no. 4 (1997): 315–20.
    https://doi.org/10.1097/00006982-199707000-00007.
  * Cain, C. P., C. D. DiCarlo, B. A. Rockwell, P. K. Kennedy, G. D. Noojin,
    D. J. Stolarski, D. X. Hammer, C. A. Toth, and W. P. Roach. “Retinal
    damage and laser-induced breakdown produced by ultrashort-pulse lasers.”
    Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol 234 Suppl 1 (August 1996): S28–37.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/BF02343045.
  * Nasir, M. A., C. A. Toth, and R. A. Mittra. “Recombinant hirudin for
    prevention of experimental postoperative intraocular fibrin.” Am J
    Ophthalmol 121, no. 5 (May 1996): 554–60.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/s0002-9394(14)75430-3.
  * MacCumber, M. W., B. W. McCuen, C. A. Toth, P. J. Ferrone, and G. J.
    Jaffe. “Tissue plasminogen activator for preserving inferior peripheral
    iridectomy patency in eyes with silicone oil.” Ophthalmology 103, no. 2
    (February 1996): 269–73. https://doi.org/10.1016/s0161-6420(96)30705-7.
  * Toth, C. A., C. P. Cain, C. D. Stein, G. D. Noojin, D. J. Stolarski, J. A.
    Zuclich, and W. P. Roach. “Retinal effects of ultrashort laser pulses in
    the rabbit eye.” Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci 36, no. 9 (August 1995):
    1910–17.
  * Hatchell, D. L., C. A. Toth, C. A. Barden, and P. Saloupis. “Diabetic
    retinopathy in a cat.” Exp Eye Res, May 1995.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/s0014-4835(05)80074-0.
  * Cain, C. P., C. A. Toth, C. D. DiCarlo, C. D. Stein, G. D. Noojin, D. J.
    Stolarski, and W. P. Roach. “Visible retinal lesions from ultrashort laser
    pulses in the primate eye.” Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci 36, no. 5 (April
    1995): 879–88.
  * Toth, C. A., A. C. Pasquale, and D. F. Graichen. “Clinicopathologic
    correlation of spontaneous retinal pigment epithelial tears with choroidal
    neovascular membranes in age-related macular degeneration.” Ophthalmology
    102, no. 2 (February 1995): 272–77.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/s0161-6420(95)31045-7.
  * Rockwell, B. A., W. P. Roach, M. E. Rogers, M. W. Mayo, C. A. Toth, C. P.
    Cain, and G. D. Noojin. “Nonlinear refraction in vitreous humor.” Opt Lett
    18, no. 21 (November 1, 1993): 1792–94.
    https://doi.org/10.1364/ol.18.001792.
  * Benner, J. D., M. Magliocco, C. A. Toth, L. M. Hjelmeland, M. B. Landers,
    and L. S. Morse. “A glass micropipette holder for ophthalmic surgical
    procedures.” Am J Ophthalmol 116, no. 4 (October 15, 1993): 511–13.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/s0002-9394(14)71419-9.
  * Toth, C. A., and M. B. Landers. “A new wide-field temporary
    keratoprosthesis.” Retina, 1993.
  * Benner, J. D., M. T. Magliocco, C. A. Toth, A. Hay, L. M. Hjelmeland, M.
    B. Landers, and L. S. Morse. “Stainless steel micropipette for subretinal
    surgery.” Am J Ophthalmol, June 15, 1992.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/s0002-9394(14)74803-2.
  * Hjelmeland, L. M., M. W. Stewart, J. Li, C. A. Toth, M. S. Burns, and M.
    B. Landers. “An experimental model of ectropion uveae and iris
    neovascularization in the cat.” Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci 33, no. 5 (April
    1992): 1796–1803.
  * Toth, C. A., J. D. Benner, L. M. Hjelmeland, M. B. Landers, and L. S.
    Morse. “Ultramicrosurgical removal of subretinal hemorrhage in cats.” Am J
    Ophthalmol 113, no. 2 (February 15, 1992): 175–82.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/s0002-9394(14)71530-2.
  * Landers, M. B., C. A. Toth, H. C. Semple, and L. S. Morse. “Treatment of
    retinopathy of prematurity with argon laser photocoagulation.” Arch
    Ophthalmol 110, no. 1 (January 1992): 44–47.
    https://doi.org/10.1001/archopht.1992.01080130046024.
  * Hjelmeland, L. M., J. W. Li, C. A. Toth, and M. B. Landers. “Antifibrotic
    and uveitogenic properties of gamma interferon in the rabbit eye.” Graefes
    Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol 230, no. 1 (1992): 84–90.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/BF00166768.
  * Benner, J. D., L. S. Morse, C. A. Toth, M. B. Landers, and L. M.
    Hjelmeland. “Evaluation of a commercial recombinant tissue-type
    plasminogen activator preparation in the subretinal space of the cat.”
    Arch Ophthalmol 109, no. 12 (December 1991): 1731–36.
    https://doi.org/10.1001/archopht.1991.01080120115039.
  * Toth, C. A., L. S. Morse, L. M. Hjelmeland, and M. B. Landers. “Fibrin
    directs early retinal damage after experimental subretinal hemorrhage.”
    Arch Ophthalmol 109, no. 5 (May 1991): 723–29.
    https://doi.org/10.1001/archopht.1991.01080050139046.

## News from Duke BME

April 14, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Integrated Design Challenge Restores Balance to the Force

March 28, 2023 | **_Duke Institute for Brain Sciences_**

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 20, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

View all news

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

