Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Ehsan Samei

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Reed and Martha Rice Distinguished Professor of Radiology

**Dr. Ehsan Samei, PhD, DABR, FAAPM, FSPIE, FAIMBE, FIOMP, FACR** is a
Persian-American medical physicist. He is a tenured Professor of Radiology,
Medical Physics, Biomedical Engineering, Physics, and Electrical and Computer
Engineering at Duke University, where he also serves as the Chief Imaging
Physicist for Duke University Health System, the director of the Carl E Ravin
Advanced Imaging Laboratories, and the director of Center for Virtual Imaging
Trials. He is certified by the American Board of Radiology, recognized as a
Distinguished Investigator by the Academy of Radiology Research, and awarded
Fellow by the American Association of Physicists in Medicine (AAPM), the
International Society of Optics and Photonics (SPIE), the American Institute
of Medical and Biomedical Engineering, International Organization of Medical
Physics, and American College of Radiology. He was a founder or co-founder of
the Duke Medical Physics Program, the Duke Imaging Physics Residency Program,
the Duke Clinical Imaging Physics Group, the Center for Virtual Imaging
Trials, and the Society of Directors of Academic Medical Physics Programs
(SDAMPP). He has held senior leadership positions in the AAPM, SPIE, SDAMPP,
and RSNA.

Dr. Samei’s expertise include x-ray imaging, theoretical imaging models,
simulation methods, and experimental techniques in medical image formation,
analysis, assessment, and perception. His current research includes methods to
develop image quality and safety metrics that are clinically relevant and that
can be used to design and utilize advanced imaging techniques towards optimum
interpretive and quantitative performance. His research aims to bridge the gap
between scientific scholarship and clinical practice, in the meaningful
realization of translational research, and in clinical processes that are
informed by scientific evidence. Those include advanced imaging performance
characterization, procedural optimization, and radiomics in retrospective
clinical dose and quality analytics. His most recent research interests have
been virtual clinical trial across a broad spectrum of oncologic, pulmonary,
cardiac, and vascular diseases, and developing methodological advances that
provide smart fusions of conventional, principle-informed and newer AI-based,
data-informed approaches to scientific inquiry.

Dr. Samei has mentored over 100 trainees (graduate and postgraduate). He has
over 1000 scientific publications including 300+ referred journal articles and
4 books. His laboratory of over 20 researchers has been supported continuously
over years by 41 extramural grants, culminating in a NIH Program Project grant
in 2021 to establish the national Center for Virtual Imaging Trials (CVIT),
joining a small number of prominent Biomedical Technology Research Centers
across the nation.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Reed and Martha Rice Distinguished Professor of Radiology
  * Professor in Radiology
  * Professor in the Department of Physics
  * Member of the Duke Cancer Institute
  * Professor of Biomedical Engineering
  * Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 2424 Erwin Road, Suite 302, Ravin Advanced Imaging
    Labs, Durham, NC 27705
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 684-7852
  * **Websites:**
    * Google Scholar

## Education

  * M.E. University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, 1995
  * Ph.D. University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, 1997

## Courses Taught

  * MEDPHY 732: Advanced Topics of Ionizing-based Imaging Modalities

## In the News

  * Artemis Launches With Two Duke Experiments (Nov 16, 2022)
  * Meet Helga and Zohar, Duke's Space Pioneers (Sep 7, 2022 | Pratt School of
    Engi…
  * University Awards 24 New Distinguished Professorships (May 18, 2022)
  * Duke to Lead National Center for Virtual Imaging Trials (Jun 18, 2021)
  * The Physics Behind Tumor Growth (Jan 28, 2021 | Pratt School of
    Engineering)
  * Can Science Explain Everything? An Exploration of Faith (Feb 12, 2018 |
    Duke Re…

## Representative Publications

  * Samei, Ehsan, Simon Murphy, and Olav Christianson. “DQE of wireless
    digital detectors: comparative performance with differing filtration
    schemes.” Med Phys 40, no. 8 (August 2013): 081910.
    https://doi.org/10.1118/1.4813298.
  * Samei, Ehsan, Xiang Li, Baiyu Chen, and Robert Reiman. “The effect of dose
    heterogeneity on radiation risk in medical imaging.” Radiat Prot Dosimetry
    155, no. 1 (June 2013): 42–58. https://doi.org/10.1093/rpd/ncs275.
  * Chen, Baiyu, Daniele Marin, Samuel Richard, Daniela Husarik, Rendon
    Nelson, and Ehsan Samei. “Precision of iodine quantification in hepatic
    CT: effects of iterative reconstruction with various imaging parameters.”
    Ajr Am J Roentgenol 200, no. 5 (May 2013): W475–82.
    https://doi.org/10.2214/AJR.12.9658.
  * Segars, W. P., Jason Bond, Jack Frush, Sylvia Hon, Chris Eckersley,
    Cameron H. Williams, Jianqiao Feng, et al. “Population of anatomically
    variable 4D XCAT adult phantoms for imaging research and optimization.”
    Med Phys 40, no. 4 (April 2013): 043701.
    https://doi.org/10.1118/1.4794178.
  * Wilson, Joshua M., Olav I. Christianson, Samuel Richard, and Ehsan Samei.
    “A methodology for image quality evaluation of advanced CT systems.” Med
    Phys 40, no. 3 (March 2013): 031908. https://doi.org/10.1118/1.4791645.
  * Solomon, Justin B., Xiang Li, and Ehsan Samei. “Relating noise to image
    quality indicators in CT examinations with tube current modulation.” Ajr
    Am J Roentgenol 200, no. 3 (March 2013): 592–600.
    https://doi.org/10.2214/AJR.12.8580.
  * Copple, Christina, Ian D. Robertson, Donald E. Thrall, and Ehsan Samei.
    “Evaluation of two objective methods to optimize kVp and personnel
    exposure using a digital indirect flat panel detector and simulated
    veterinary patients.” Vet Radiol Ultrasound 54, no. 1 (2013): 9–16.
    https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1740-8261.2012.01989.x.
  * Li, Xiang, Ehsan Samei, Cameron H. Williams, W Paul Segars, Daniel J.
    Tward, Michael I. Miller, J Tilak Ratnanather, Erik K. Paulson, and Donald
    P. Frush. “Effects of protocol and obesity on dose conversion factors in
    adult body CT.” Med Phys 39, no. 11 (November 2012): 6550–71.
    https://doi.org/10.1118/1.4754584.
  * Christianson, Olav, Xiang Li, Donald Frush, and Ehsan Samei. “Automated
    size-specific CT dose monitoring program: assessing variability in CT
    dose.” Med Phys 39, no. 11 (November 2012): 7131–39.
    https://doi.org/10.1118/1.4761871.
  * Solomon, Justin B., Olav Christianson, and Ehsan Samei. “Quantitative
    comparison of noise texture across CT scanners from different
    manufacturers.” Med Phys 39, no. 10 (October 2012): 6048–55.
    https://doi.org/10.1118/1.4752209.
  * Pollard, Benjamin J., Ehsan Samei, Amarpreet S. Chawla, Craig Beam, Laura
    E. Heyneman, Lynne M Hurwitz Koweek, Santiago Martinez-Jimenez, Lacey
    Washington, Noriyuki Hashimoto, and H Page McAdams. “The effects of
    ambient lighting in chest radiology reading rooms.” J Digit Imaging 25,
    no. 4 (August 2012): 520–26. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10278-012-9459-5.
  * McCollough, Cynthia H., Guang Hong Chen, Willi Kalender, Shuai Leng, Ehsan
    Samei, Katsuyuki Taguchi, Ge Wang, Lifeng Yu, and Roderic I. Pettigrew.
    “Achieving routine submillisievert CT scanning: report from the summit on
    management of radiation dose in CT.” Radiology 264, no. 2 (August 2012):
    567–80. https://doi.org/10.1148/radiol.12112265.
  * Richard, Samuel, Daniela B. Husarik, Girijesh Yadava, Simon N. Murphy, and
    Ehsan Samei. “Towards task-based assessment of CT performance: System and
    object MTF across different reconstruction algorithms.” Med Phys 39, no.
    7Part1 (July 2012): 4115–22. https://doi.org/10.1118/1.4725171.
  * Chen, Baiyu, Huiman Barnhart, Samuel Richard, James Colsher, Maxwell
    Amurao, and Ehsan Samei. “Quantitative CT: technique dependence of volume
    estimation on pulmonary nodules.” Phys Med Biol 57, no. 5 (March 7, 2012):
    1335–48. https://doi.org/10.1088/0031-9155/57/5/1335.
  * Samei, Ehsan, Terry M. Button, and Colin G. Orton. “Point/Counterpoint:
    The 2014 initiative can have potentially unintended negative consequences
    for medical physics in diagnostic imaging and nuclear medicine.” Med Phys
    39, no. 3 (March 2012): 1167–68. https://doi.org/10.1118/1.3658741.
  * Samei, Ehsan, Nariman Majdi-Nasab, James T. Dobbins, and H Page McAdams.
    “Biplane correlation imaging: a feasibility study based on phantom and
    human data.” J Digit Imaging 25, no. 1 (February 2012): 137–47.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s10278-011-9392-z.
  * Samei, Ehsan, and J. Anthony Seibert. “The tenuous state of clinical
    medical physics in diagnostic imaging.” Med Phys 38, no. 12 (December
    2011): iii–iv. https://doi.org/10.1118/1.3664002.
  * Wang, Carolyn Lee, Yen Wei Chea, Daniel T. Boll, Ehsan Samei, Amy M.
    Neville, Brian M. Dale, and Elmar M. Merkle. “Effect of gadolinium chelate
    contrast agents on diffusion weighted MR imaging of the liver, spleen,
    pancreas and kidney at 3 T.” Eur J Radiol 80, no. 2 (November 2011): e1–7.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejrad.2010.05.019.
  * D’Alessandro, Brian, Mark Madsen, Ehsan Samei, Xiang Li, Jin Wooi-Tan,
    Kevin S. Berbaum, Kevin Schartz, Robert Caldwell, and Lionel S. Zuckier.
    “Synthetic positron emission tomography-computed tomography images for use
    in perceptual studies.” Semin Nucl Med 41, no. 6 (November 2011): 437–48.
    https://doi.org/10.1053/j.semnuclmed.2011.06.007.
  * Samei, Ehsan, and Robert S. Saunders. “Dual-energy contrast-enhanced
    breast tomosynthesis: optimization of beam quality for dose and image
    quality.” Phys Med Biol 56, no. 19 (October 7, 2011): 6359–78.
    https://doi.org/10.1088/0031-9155/56/19/013.
  * Samei, Ehsan, Nicole T. Ranger, James T. Dobbins, and Carl E. Ravin.
    “Effective dose efficiency: an application-specific metric of quality and
    dose for digital radiography.” Phys Med Biol 56, no. 16 (August 21, 2011):
    5099–5118. https://doi.org/10.1088/0031-9155/56/16/002.
  * Li, Xiang, Ehsan Samei, W Paul Segars, Gregory M. Sturgeon, James G.
    Colsher, and Donald P. Frush. “Patient-specific radiation dose and cancer
    risk for pediatric chest CT.” Radiology 259, no. 3 (June 2011): 862–74.
    https://doi.org/10.1148/radiol.11101900.
  * Chen, Baiyu, Jamie Shorey, Robert S. Saunders, Samuel Richard, John
    Thompson, Loren W. Nolte, and Ehsan Samei. “An anthropomorphic breast
    model for breast imaging simulation and optimization.” Acad Radiol 18, no.
    5 (May 2011): 536–46. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.acra.2010.11.009.
  * Li, Xiang, Ehsan Samei, Huiman X. Barnhart, Ana Maria Gaca, Caroline L.
    Hollingsworth, Charles M. Maxfield, Caroline W. T. Carrico, James G.
    Colsher, and Donald P. Frush. “Lung nodule detection in pediatric chest
    CT: quantitative relationship between image quality and radiologist
    performance.” Med Phys 38, no. 5 (May 2011): 2609–18.
    https://doi.org/10.1118/1.3582975.
  * Webb, Lincoln J., Ehsan Samei, Joseph Y. Lo, Jay A. Baker, Sujata V.
    Ghate, Connie Kim, Mary Scott Soo, and Ruth Walsh. “Comparative
    performance of multiview stereoscopic and mammographic display modalities
    for breast lesion detection.” Med Phys 38, no. 4 (April 2011): 1972–80.
    https://doi.org/10.1118/1.3562901.
  * Li, Xiang, Ehsan Samei, W Paul Segars, Gregory M. Sturgeon, James G.
    Colsher, Greta Toncheva, Terry T. Yoshizumi, and Donald P. Frush.
    “Patient-specific radiation dose and cancer risk estimation in CT: part
    II. Application to patients.” Med Phys 38, no. 1 (January 2011): 408–19.
    https://doi.org/10.1118/1.3515864.
  * Li, Xiang, Ehsan Samei, W Paul Segars, Gregory M. Sturgeon, James G.
    Colsher, Greta Toncheva, Terry T. Yoshizumi, and Donald P. Frush.
    “Patient-specific radiation dose and cancer risk estimation in CT: part I.
    development and validation of a Monte Carlo program.” Med Phys 38, no. 1
    (January 2011): 397–407. https://doi.org/10.1118/1.3515839.
  * Richard, Samuel, and Ehsan Samei. “Quantitative breast tomosynthesis: from
    detectability to estimability.” Med Phys 37, no. 12 (December 2010):
    6157–65. https://doi.org/10.1118/1.3501883.
  * Marin, Daniele, Rendon C. Nelson, Huiman Barnhart, Sebastian T. Schindera,
    Lisa M. Ho, Tracy A. Jaffe, Terry T. Yoshizumi, Richard Youngblood, and
    Ehsan Samei. “Detection of pancreatic tumors, image quality, and radiation
    dose during the pancreatic parenchymal phase: effect of a low-tube-
    voltage, high-tube-current CT technique--preliminary results.” Radiology
    256, no. 2 (August 2010): 450–59. https://doi.org/10.1148/radiol.10091819.
  * Richard, Samuel, and Ehsan Samei. “Quantitative imaging in breast
    tomosynthesis and CT: Comparison of detection and estimation task
    performance.” Med Phys 37, no. 6Part1 (June 2010): 2627–37.
    https://doi.org/10.1118/1.3429025.
  * Shafer, Christina M., Ehsan Samei, and Joseph Y. Lo. “The quantitative
    potential for breast tomosynthesis imaging.” Med Phys 37, no. 3 (March
    2010): 1004–16. https://doi.org/10.1118/1.3285038.
  * Ranger, Nicole T., Joseph Y. Lo, and Ehsan Samei. “A technique
    optimization protocol and the potential for dose reduction in digital
    mammography.” Med Phys 37, no. 3 (March 2010): 962–69.
    https://doi.org/10.1118/1.3276732.
  * Fleck, Mathias S., Ehsan Samei, and Stephen R. Mitroff. “Generalized
    "satisfaction of search": adverse influences on dual-target search
    accuracy.” J Exp Psychol Appl 16, no. 1 (March 2010): 60–71.
    https://doi.org/10.1037/a0018629.
  * Marin, Daniele, Rendon C. Nelson, Sebastian T. Schindera, Samuel Richard,
    Richard S. Youngblood, Terry T. Yoshizumi, and Ehsan Samei. “Low-tube-
    voltage, high-tube-current multidetector abdominal CT: improved image
    quality and decreased radiation dose with adaptive statistical iterative
    reconstruction algorithm--initial clinical experience.” Radiology 254, no.
    1 (January 2010): 145–53. https://doi.org/10.1148/radiol.09090094.
  * Chawla, Amarpreet S., Joseph Y. Lo, Jay A. Baker, and Ehsan Samei.
    “Optimized image acquisition for breast tomosynthesis in projection and
    reconstruction space.” Med Phys 36, no. 11 (November 2009): 4859–69.
    https://doi.org/10.1118/1.3231814.
  * Samei, Ehsan, Nicole T. Ranger, Alistair MacKenzie, Ian D. Honey, James T.
    Dobbins, and Carl E. Ravin. “Effective DQE (eDQE) and speed of digital
    radiographic systems: an experimental methodology.” Med Phys 36, no. 8
    (August 2009): 3806–17. https://doi.org/10.1118/1.3171690.
  * Shepard, S Jeff, Jihong Wang, Michael Flynn, Eric Gingold, Lee Goldman,
    Kerry Krugh, David L. Leong, et al. “An exposure indicator for digital
    radiography: AAPM Task Group 116 (executive summary).” Med Phys 36, no. 7
    (July 2009): 2898–2914. https://doi.org/10.1118/1.3121505.
  * Li, Xiang, Ehsan Samei, David M. DeLong, Robert P. Jones, Ana Maria Gaca,
    Caroline L. Hollingsworth, Charles M. Maxfield, James G. Colsher, and
    Donald P. Frush. “Pediatric MDCT: towards assessing the diagnostic
    influence of dose reduction on the detection of small lung nodules.” Acad
    Radiol 16, no. 7 (July 2009): 872–80.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.acra.2009.01.028.
  * Saunders, Robert S., Ehsan Samei, Joseph Y. Lo, and Jay A. Baker. “Can
    compression be reduced for breast tomosynthesis? Monte carlo study on mass
    and microcalcification conspicuity in tomosynthesis.” Radiology 251, no. 3
    (June 2009): 673–82. https://doi.org/10.1148/radiol.2521081278.
  * Marin, Daniele, Rendon C. Nelson, Ehsan Samei, Erik K. Paulson, Lisa M.
    Ho, Daniel T. Boll, David M. DeLong, Terry T. Yoshizumi, and Sebastian T.
    Schindera. “Hypervascular liver tumors: low tube voltage, high tube
    current multidetector CT during late hepatic arterial phase for detection
    --initial clinical experience.” Radiology 251, no. 3 (June 2009): 771–79.
    https://doi.org/10.1148/radiol.2513081330.
  * Li, X., E. Samei, D. M. Delong, R. P. Jones, A. M. Gaca, C. L.
    Hollingsworth, C. M. Maxfield, C. W. T. Carrico, and D. P. Frush. “Three-
    dimensional simulation of lung nodules for paediatric multidetector array
    CT.” Br J Radiol 82, no. 977 (May 2009): 401–11.
    https://doi.org/10.1259/bjr/51749983.
  * Chawla, Amarpreet S., Robert S. Saunders, Swatee Singh, Joseph Y. Lo, and
    Ehsan Samei. “Towards optimized acquisition scheme for multiprojection
    correlation imaging of breast cancer.” Acad Radiol 16, no. 4 (April 2009):
    456–63. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.acra.2008.09.013.
  * Pollard, Benjamin J., Ehsan Samei, Amarpreet S. Chawla, Jay Baker, Sujata
    Ghate, Connie Kim, Mary S. Soo, and Noriyuki Hashimoto. “The influence of
    increased ambient lighting on mass detection in mammograms.” Acad Radiol
    16, no. 3 (March 2009): 299–304.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.acra.2008.08.017.
  * Li, Xiang, and Ehsan Samei. “Comparison of patient size-based methods for
    estimating quantum noise in CT images of the lung.” Med Phys 36, no. 2
    (February 2009): 541–46. https://doi.org/10.1118/1.3058482.
  * Castella, C., M. P. Eckstein, C. K. Abbey, K. Kinkel, F. R. Verdun, R. S.
    Saunders, E. Samei, and F. O. Bochud. “Mass detection on mammograms:
    influence of signal shape uncertainty on human and model observers.” J Opt
    Soc Am a Opt Image Sci Vis 26, no. 2 (February 2009): 425–36.
    https://doi.org/10.1364/josaa.26.000425.
  * Samei, Ehsan, Robert S. Saunders, Cristian T. Badea, Ketan B. Ghaghada,
    Laurence W. Hedlund, Yi Qi, Hong Yuan, Rex C. Bentley, and Srinivasan
    Mukundan. “Micro-CT imaging of breast tumors in rodents using a liposomal,
    nanoparticle contrast agent.” Int J Nanomedicine 4 (2009): 277–82.
  * Li, Xiang, Ehsan Samei, W Paul Segars, Gregory M. Sturgeon, James G.
    Colsher, and Donald P. Frush. “Patient-specific dose estimation for
    pediatric chest CT.” Med Phys 35, no. 12 (December 2008): 5821–28.
    https://doi.org/10.1118/1.3026593.
  * Samei, Ehsan, Nicole T. Ranger, Alistair MacKenzie, Ian D. Honey, James T.
    Dobbins, and Carl E. Ravin. “Detector or system? Extending the concept of
    detective quantum efficiency to characterize the performance of digital
    radiographic imaging systems.” Radiology 249, no. 3 (December 2008):
    926–37. https://doi.org/10.1148/radiol.2492071734.
  * Saunders, Robert S., and Ehsan Samei. “The effect of breast compression on
    mass conspicuity in digital mammography.” Med Phys 35, no. 10 (October
    2008): 4464–73. https://doi.org/10.1118/1.2977600.
  * Singh, Swatee, Georgia D. Tourassi, Jay A. Baker, Ehsan Samei, and Joseph
    Y. Lo. “Automated breast mass detection in 3D reconstructed tomosynthesis
    volumes: a featureless approach.” Med Phys 35, no. 8 (August 2008):
    3626–36. https://doi.org/10.1118/1.2953562.
  * Fetterly, Kenneth A., Hartwig R. Blume, Michael J. Flynn, and Ehsan Samei.
    “Introduction to grayscale calibration and related aspects of medical
    imaging grade liquid crystal displays.” J Digit Imaging 21, no. 2 (June
    2008): 193–207. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10278-007-9022-y.
  * Pollard, Benjamin J., Amarpreet S. Chawla, David M. Delong, Noriyuki
    Hashimoto, and Ehsan Samei. “Object detectability at increased ambient
    lighting conditions.” Med Phys 35, no. 6 (June 2008): 2204–13.
    https://doi.org/10.1118/1.2907566.
  * Williams, Mark B., Priya Raghunathan, Mitali J. More, J Anthony Seibert,
    Alexander Kwan, Joseph Y. Lo, Ehsan Samei, et al. “Optimization of
    exposure parameters in full field digital mammography.” Med Phys 35, no. 6
    (June 2008): 2414–23. https://doi.org/10.1118/1.2912177.
  * Samei, Ehsan, Nicole T. Ranger, and David M. Delong. “A comparative
    contrast-detail study of five medical displays.” Med Phys 35, no. 4 (April
    2008): 1358–64. https://doi.org/10.1118/1.2868780.
  * Chawla, Amarpreet S., Ehsan Samei, Robert S. Saunders, Joseph Y. Lo, and
    Jay A. Baker. “A mathematical model platform for optimizing a
    multiprojection breast imaging system.” Med Phys 35, no. 4 (April 2008):
    1337–45. https://doi.org/10.1118/1.2885367.
  * Schindera, Sebastian T., Rendon C. Nelson, Srinivasan Mukundan, Erik K.
    Paulson, Tracy A. Jaffe, Chad M. Miller, David M. DeLong, Keigo Kawaji,
    Terry T. Yoshizumi, and Ehsan Samei. “Hypervascular liver tumors: low tube
    voltage, high tube current multi-detector row CT for enhanced detection--
    phantom study.” Radiology 246, no. 1 (January 2008): 125–32.
    https://doi.org/10.1148/radiol.2461070307.
  * Saunders, Robert S., Jay A. Baker, David M. Delong, Jeff P. Johnson, and
    Ehsan Samei. “Does image quality matter? Impact of resolution and noise on
    mammographic task performance.” Med Phys 34, no. 10 (October 2007):
    3971–81. https://doi.org/10.1118/1.2776253.
  * Chawla, Amarpreet S., Ehsan Samei, Robert Saunders, Craig Abbey, and David
    Delong. “Effect of dose reduction on the detection of mammographic
    lesions: a mathematical observer model analysis.” Med Phys 34, no. 8
    (August 2007): 3385–98. https://doi.org/10.1118/1.2756607.
  * Ranger, Nicole T., Ehsan Samei, James T. Dobbins, and Carl E. Ravin.
    “Assessment of detective quantum efficiency: intercomparison of a recently
    introduced international standard with prior methods.” Radiology 243, no.
    3 (June 2007): 785–95. https://doi.org/10.1148/radiol.2433060485.
  * Samei, Ehsan, Ananth Poolla, Michael J. Ulissey, and John M. Lewin.
    “Digital mammography: comparative performance of color LCD and monochrome
    CRT displays.” Acad Radiol 14, no. 5 (May 2007): 539–46.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.acra.2007.01.022.
  * Samei, Ehsan, Robert S. Saunders, Jay A. Baker, and David M. Delong.
    “Digital mammography: effects of reduced radiation dose on diagnostic
    performance.” Radiology 243, no. 2 (May 2007): 396–404.
    https://doi.org/10.1148/radiol.2432061065.
  * Samei, Ehsan, Stanton A. Stebbins, James T. Dobbins, H Page McAdams, and
    Joseph Y. Lo. “Multiprojection correlation imaging for improved detection
    of pulmonary nodules.” Ajr Am J Roentgenol 188, no. 5 (May 2007): 1239–45.
    https://doi.org/10.2214/AJR.06.0843.
  * Badea, Cristian T., Laurence W. Hedlund, Ming De Lin, Julie S Boslego
    Mackel, Ehsan Samei, and G Allan Johnson. “Tomographic digital subtraction
    angiography for lung perfusion estimation in rodents.” Med Phys 34, no. 5
    (May 2007): 1546–55. https://doi.org/10.1118/1.2717384.
  * Ruschin, Mark, Pontus Timberg, Magnus Båth, Bengt Hemdal, Tony Svahn, Rob
    S. Saunders, Ehsan Samei, et al. “Dose dependence of mass and
    microcalcification detection in digital mammography: free response human
    observer studies.” Med Phys 34, no. 2 (February 2007): 400–407.
    https://doi.org/10.1118/1.2405324.
  * Chawla, Amarpreet S., and Ehsan Samei. “Ambient illumination revisited: a
    new adaptation-based approach for optimizing medical imaging reading
    environments.” Med Phys 34, no. 1 (January 2007): 81–90.
    https://doi.org/10.1118/1.2402583.
  * Saunders, R. S., and E. Samei. “Improving mammographic decision accuracy
    by incorporating observer ratings with interpretation time.” Br J Radiol
    79 Spec No 2 (December 2006): S117–22.
    https://doi.org/10.1259/bjr/96931332.
  * McAdams, H Page, Ehsan Samei, James Dobbins, Georgia D. Tourassi, and Carl
    E. Ravin. “Recent advances in chest radiography.” Radiology 241, no. 3
    (December 2006): 663–83. https://doi.org/10.1148/radiol.2413051535.
  * De Lin, Ming, Ehsan Samei, Cristian T. Badea, Terry T. Yoshizumi, and G.
    Allan Johnson. “Optimized radiographic spectra for small animal digital
    subtraction angiography.” Med Phys 33, no. 11 (November 2006): 4249–57.
    https://doi.org/10.1118/1.2356646.
  * Saunders, Robert S., Ehsan Samei, Jay Baker, David Delong, Mary Scott Soo,
    Ruth Walsh, Etta Pisano, Cherie M. Kuzmiak, and Dag Pavic. “Comparison of
    LCD and CRT displays based on efficacy for digital mammography.” Acad
    Radiol 13, no. 11 (November 2006): 1317–26.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.acra.2006.07.017.
  * Badano, Aldo, Sarah Schneider, and Ehsan Samei. “Visual assessment of
    angular response in medical liquid crystal displays.” J Digit Imaging 19,
    no. 3 (September 2006): 240–48. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10278-006-0633-5.
  * Siegel, Eliot, Elizabeth Krupinski, Ehsan Samei, Michael Flynn, Katherine
    Andriole, Bradley Erickson, Jerry Thomas, Aldo Badano, J Anthony Seibert,
    and Etta D. Pisano. “Digital mammography image quality: image display.” J
    Am Coll Radiol 3, no. 8 (August 2006): 615–27.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jacr.2006.03.007.
  * Saunders, Robert, Ehsan Samei, Jay Baker, and David Delong. “Simulation of
    mammographic lesions.” Acad Radiol 13, no. 7 (July 2006): 860–70.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.acra.2006.03.015.
  * Borasi, Giovanni, Ehsan Samei, Marco Bertolini, Andrea Nitrosi, and Davide
    Tassoni. “Contrast-detail analysis of three flat panel detectors for
    digital radiography.” Med Phys 33, no. 6 (June 2006): 1707–19.
    https://doi.org/10.1118/1.2191014.
  * Dobbins, James T., Ehsan Samei, Nicole T. Ranger, and Ying Chen.
    “Intercomparison of methods for image quality characterization. II. Noise
    power spectrum.” Med Phys 33, no. 5 (May 2006): 1466–75.
    https://doi.org/10.1118/1.2188819.
  * Samei, Ehsan, Nicole T. Ranger, James T. Dobbins, and Ying Chen.
    “Intercomparison of methods for image quality characterization. I.
    Modulation transfer function.” Med Phys 33, no. 5 (May 2006): 1454–65.
    https://doi.org/10.1118/1.2188816.
  * Boyce, Sarah J., and Ehsan Samei. “Imaging properties of digital
    magnification radiography.” Med Phys 33, no. 4 (April 2006): 984–96.
    https://doi.org/10.1118/1.2174133.
  * Samei, Ehsan, and Steven L. Wright. “Viewing angle performance of medical
    liquid crystal displays.” Med Phys 33, no. 3 (March 2006): 645–54.
    https://doi.org/10.1118/1.2168430.
  * Hoe, Chee L., Ehsan Samei, Donald P. Frush, and David M. Delong.
    “Simulation of liver lesions for pediatric CT.” Radiology 238, no. 2
    (February 2006): 699–705. https://doi.org/10.1148/radiol.2381050477.
  * Saunders, Robert S., and Ehsan Samei. “Resolution and noise measurements
    of five CRT and LCD medical displays.” Med Phys 33, no. 2 (February 2006):
    308–19. https://doi.org/10.1118/1.2150777.
  * McKinley, Randolph L., Martin P. Tornai, Caryl Brzymialkiewicz, Priti
    Madhav, Ehsan Samei, and James E. Bowsher. “Analysis of a novel offset
    cone-beam computed mammotomography system geometry for accomodating
    various breast sizes.” Phys Med 21 Suppl 1 (2006): 48–55.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/S1120-1797(06)80024-4.
  * Samei, Ehsan, Egbert Buhr, Paul Granfors, Dirk Vandenbroucke, and Xiaohui
    Wang. “Comparison of edge analysis techniques for the determination of the
    MTF of digital radiographic systems.” Phys Med Biol 50, no. 15 (August 7,
    2005): 3613–25. https://doi.org/10.1088/0031-9155/50/15/009.
  * Ranger, Nicole T., Ehsan Samei, James T. Dobbins, and Carl E. Ravin.
    “Measurement of the detective quantum efficiency in digital detectors
    consistent with the IEC 62220-1 standard: Practical considerations
    regarding the choice of filter material.” Med Phys 32, no. 7Part1 (July
    2005): 2305–11. https://doi.org/10.1118/1.1929187.
  * Samei, Ehsan, Joseph Y. Lo, Terry T. Yoshizumi, Jonathan L. Jesneck, James
    T. Dobbins, Carey E. Floyd, H Page McAdams, and Carl E. Ravin.
    “Comparative scatter and dose performance of slot-scan and full-field
    digital chest radiography systems.” Radiology 235, no. 3 (June 2005):
    940–49. https://doi.org/10.1148/radiol.2353040516.
  * Samei, Ehsan, Aldo Badano, Dev Chakraborty, Ken Compton, Craig Cornelius,
    Kevin Corrigan, Michael J. Flynn, et al. “Assessment of display
    performance for medical imaging systems: executive summary of AAPM TG18
    report.” Med Phys 32, no. 4 (April 2005): 1205–25.
    https://doi.org/10.1118/1.1861159.
  * Saunders, Robert S., Ehsan Samei, Jonathan L. Jesneck, and Joseph Y. Lo.
    “Physical characterization of a prototype selenium-based full field
    digital mammography detector.” Med Phys 32, no. 2 (February 2005): 588–99.
    https://doi.org/10.1118/1.1855033.
  * Samei, Ehsan. “AAPM/RSNA physics tutorial for residents: technological and
    psychophysical considerations for digital mammographic displays.”
    Radiographics 25, no. 2 (2005): 491–501.
    https://doi.org/10.1148/rg.252045185.
  * Samei, Ehsan, James T. Dobbins, Joseph Y. Lo, and Martin P. Tornai. “A
    framework for optimising the radiographic technique in digital X-ray
    imaging.” Radiat Prot Dosimetry 114, no. 1–3 (2005): 220–29.
    https://doi.org/10.1093/rpd/nch562.
  * Samei, Ehsan, Alan Rowberg, Ellie Avraham, and Craig Cornelius. “Toward
    clinically relevant standardization of image quality.” J Digit Imaging 17,
    no. 4 (December 2004): 271–78. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10278-004-1031-5.
  * Samei, E., and S. L. Wright. “Luminance and contrast performance of liquid
    crystal displays for mammographic applications.” Technol Cancer Res Treat
    3, no. 5 (October 2004): 429–36.
    https://doi.org/10.1177/153303460400300503.
  * Samei, Ehsan, Robert S. Saunders, Joseph Y. Lo, James T. Dobbins, Jonathan
    L. Jesneck, Carey E. Floyd, and Carl E. Ravin. “Fundamental imaging
    characteristics of a slot-scan digital chest radiographic system.” Med
    Phys 31, no. 9 (September 2004): 2687–98.
    https://doi.org/10.1118/1.1783531.
  * Neitzel, Ulrich, Susanne Günther-Kohfahl, Giovanni Borasi, and Ehsan
    Samei. “Determination of the detective quantum efficiency of a digital
    x-ray detector: comparison of three evaluations using a common image data
    set.” Med Phys 31, no. 8 (August 2004): 2205–11.
    https://doi.org/10.1118/1.1766421.
  * Jung, Haijo, Hee-Joung Kim, Won-Suk Kang, Sun Kook Yoo, Kiyoto Fujioka,
    Mikio Hasegawa, and Ehsan Samei. “Assessment of flat panel LCD primary
    class display performance based on AAPM TG 18 acceptance protocol.” Med
    Phys 31, no. 7 (July 2004): 2155–64. https://doi.org/10.1118/1.1764946.
  * Saunders, Robert S., Ehsan Samei, and Christoph Hoeschen. “Impact of
    resolution and noise characteristics of digital radiographic detectors on
    the detectability of lung nodules.” Med Phys 31, no. 6 (June 2004):
    1603–13. https://doi.org/10.1118/1.1753112.
  * McKinley, Randolph L., Martin P. Tornai, Ehsan Samei, and Marques L.
    Bradshaw. “Simulation study of a quasi-monochromatic beam for x-ray
    computed mammotomography.” Med Phys 31, no. 4 (April 2004): 800–813.
    https://doi.org/10.1118/1.1668371.
  * Samei, Ehsan, J Anthony Seibert, Katherine Andriole, Aldo Badano, Jay
    Crawford, Bruce Reiner, Michael J. Flynn, and Paul Chang. “AAPM/RSNA
    tutorial on equipment selection: PACS equipment overview: general
    guidelines for purchasing and acceptance testing of PACS equipment.”
    Radiographics 24, no. 1 (2004): 313–34.
    https://doi.org/10.1148/rg.241035137.
  * Turner, Shannon R., Ehsan Samei, Barbara S. Hertzberg, David M. DeLong,
    Rene Vargas-Voracek, Amy Singer, Carolyn H. Maynor, and Mark A. Kliewer.
    “Sonography of fetal choroid plexus cysts: detection depends on cyst size
    and gestational age.” J Ultrasound Med 22, no. 11 (November 2003):
    1219–27. https://doi.org/10.7863/jum.2003.22.11.1219.
  * Saunders, Robert S., and Ehsan Samei. “A method for modifying the image
    quality parameters of digital radiographic images.” Med Phys 30, no. 11
    (November 2003): 3006–17. https://doi.org/10.1118/1.1621870.
  * Samei, Ehsan, Michael J. Flynn, Edward Peterson, and William R. Eyler.
    “Subtle lung nodules: influence of local anatomic variations on
    detection.” Radiology 228, no. 1 (July 2003): 76–84.
    https://doi.org/10.1148/radiol.2273020509.
  * Samei, Ehsan. “Image quality in two phosphor-based flat panel digital
    radiographic detectors.” Med Phys 30, no. 7 (July 2003): 1747–57.
    https://doi.org/10.1118/1.1578772.
  * Samei, Ehsan, and Michael J. Flynn. “An experimental comparison of
    detector performance for direct and indirect digital radiography systems.”
    Med Phys 30, no. 4 (April 2003): 608–22.
    https://doi.org/10.1118/1.1561285.
  * Samei, Ehsan, Jeanne G. Hill, G Donald Frey, W Michael Southgate, Eugene
    Mah, and David Delong. “Evaluation of a flat panel digital radiographic
    system for low-dose portable imaging of neonates.” Med Phys 30, no. 4
    (April 2003): 601–7. https://doi.org/10.1118/1.1556611.
  * Dobbins, James T., Ehsan Samei, Harrell G. Chotas, Richard J. Warp, Alan
    H. Baydush, Carey E. Floyd, and Carl E. Ravin. “Chest radiography:
    optimization of X-ray spectrum for cesium iodide-amorphous silicon flat-
    panel detector.” Radiology 226, no. 1 (January 2003): 221–30.
    https://doi.org/10.1148/radiol.2261012023.
  * Samei, Ehsan, and Michael J. Flynn. “An experimental comparison of
    detector performance for computed radiography systems.” Med Phys 29, no. 4
    (April 2002): 447–59. https://doi.org/10.1118/1.1449873.
  * Samei, E., J. A. Seibert, C. E. Willis, M. J. Flynn, E. Mah, and K. L.
    Junck. “Performance evaluation of computed radiography systems.” Med Phys
    28, no. 3 (March 2001): 361–71. https://doi.org/10.1118/1.1350586.
  * Mah, E., E. Samei, and D. J. Peck. “Evaluation of a quality control
    phantom for digital chest radiography.” J Appl Clin Med Phys 2, no. 2
    (2001): 90–101. https://doi.org/10.1120/jacmp.v2i2.2621.
  * Ryan, M. T., K. M. Spicer, D. Frei-Lahr, E. Samei, G. D. Frey, H.
    Hargrove, and G. Bloodworth. “Health physics consequences of out-patient
    treatment of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma with 131I-radiolabeled anti-B1
    antibody.” Health Phys 79, no. 5 Suppl (November 2000): S52–55.
    https://doi.org/10.1097/00004032-200011001-00004.
  * Kearfott, K. J., S. Han, E. C. Wagner, E. Samei, and C. K. Wang.
    “Numerical simulation of a TLD pulsed laser-heating scheme for
    determination of shallow dose and deep dose in low-LET radiation fields.”
    Appl Radiat Isot 52, no. 6 (June 2000): 1419–29.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/s0969-8043(99)00251-1.
  * Samei, E., M. J. Flynn, and W. R. Eyler. “Detection of subtle lung
    nodules: relative influence of quantum and anatomic noise on chest
    radiographs.” Radiology 213, no. 3 (December 1999): 727–34.
    https://doi.org/10.1148/radiology.213.3.r99dc19727.
  * Flynn, M. J., and E. Samei. “Experimental comparison of noise and
    resolution for 2k and 4k storage phosphor radiography systems.” Med Phys
    26, no. 8 (August 1999): 1612–23. https://doi.org/10.1118/1.598656.
  * Samei, E., M. J. Flynn, and D. A. Reimann. “A method for measuring the
    presampled MTF of digital radiographic systems using an edge test device.”
    Med Phys 25, no. 1 (January 1998): 102–13.
    https://doi.org/10.1118/1.598165.
  * Beute, G. H., M. J. Flynn, W. R. Eyler, E. Samei, D. L. Spizarny, and C.
    J. Zylak. “Chest radiographic image quality: comparison of asymmetric
    screen-film, digital storage phosphor, and digital selenium drum systems--
    preliminary study.” Radiographics 18, no. 3 (1998): 745–54.
    https://doi.org/10.1148/radiographics.18.3.9599395.
  * Samei, E., M. J. Flynn, and W. R. Eyler. “Simulation of subtle lung
    nodules in projection chest radiography.” Radiology 202, no. 1 (January
    1997): 117–24. https://doi.org/10.1148/radiology.202.1.8988200.
  * Samei, E., and K. J. Kearfott. “A limited bibliography of the Federal
    Government-funded human radiation experiments.” Health Phys 69, no. 6
    (December 1995): 885–91. https://doi.org/10.1097/00004032-199512000-00001.
  * Kearfott, K. J., S. Han, K. L. McMahan, and E. Samei. “Sensitivity of a
    mixed field dosimetry algorithm to uncertainties in thermoluminescent
    element readings.” Health Phys 68, no. 3 (March 1995): 340–49.
    https://doi.org/10.1097/00004032-199503000-00006.

## News from Duke BME

April 14, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Integrated Design Challenge Restores Balance to the Force

March 28, 2023 | **_Duke Institute for Brain Sciences_**

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 20, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

View all news

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

