Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# John Howard Sampson

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Robert H., M.D. and Gloria Wilkins Professor of Neurosurgery, in the School of
Medicine

Current research activities involve the immunotherapeutic targeting of a
tumor-specific mutation in the epidermal growth factor receptor. Approaches
used to target this tumor-specific epitope include unarmed and radiolabeled
antibody therapy and cell mediated approaches using peptide vaccines and
dendritic cells. Another area of interest involves drug delivery to brain
tumors. Translational and clinical work is carried out in this area to
formulate the relationship between various direct intratumoral infusion
parameters and drug distribution within brain tumors and normal brain.  
  
The Duke Brain Tumor Immunotherapy Program (BTIP) has an emphasis on
translational research in Neuro-Oncology. There are two main areas of study.
The first is novel mechanisms of delivery of large molecular weight molecules,
such as monoclonal antibodies, throughout brain intersitial space using novel
intracerebral infusion techniques developed by this laboratory. Studies
exploring this technology are undertaken in both small and large laboratory
animals and patients with brain tumors.  
  
The other focus of the BTIP is translational immunotherapy. In this line of
work, dendritic cell vaccination strategies and adoptive T-cell strategies
have been developed to target novel and well-characterized tumor-specific
antigens in patients with brain tumors. The BTIP integrates well with and
works closely with the Preston Robert Tisch Brain Tumor Center at Duke. The
BTIP is well funded and currently holds seven NIH grants, including a SPORE in
Brain Cancer grant. There are a large number of investigators at various
levels so that students will get exposure to various levels of research and
mentorship.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Robert H., M.D. and Gloria Wilkins Professor of Neurosurgery, in the
    School of Medicine
  * Professor of Neurosurgery
  * Professor of Biomedical Engineering
  * Professor of Immunology
  * Professor of Radiation Oncology
  * Professor of Pathology
  * Professor in Orthopaedic Surgery
  * Member of the Duke Cancer Institute

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 1293 Orange Zone, Duke South, 200 Trent Dr, Durham,
    NC 27710
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 681-6581
  * **Email Address:** john.sampson@duke.edu

## Education

  * M.D. University of Manitoba (Canada), 1990
  * Ph.D. Duke University, 1996
  * M.H.S. Duke University School of Medicine, 2007
  * M.B.A. Duke University, 2011
  * University of Manitoba (Canada), 1989
  * Duke University, 1991
  * Duke University, 1998

## Courses Taught

  * BME 394: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 494: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * EGR 393: Research Projects in Engineering
  * EGR 491: Projects in Engineering
  * PATHOL 293: Research Independent Study
  * PATHOL 793: Research Independent Study

## In the News

  * How Glioblastoma Brain Tumors Resist the Immune System (Nov 4, 2022 | Duke
    Heal…
  * Dr. John Sampson Named PDC President (Mar 9, 2020 | Duke Health News)
  * Neurosurgeon John Sampson Named to the National Academy of Medicine (Oct
    16, 20…
  * Immunotherapy for Glioblastoma Well Tolerated, Survival Gains Observed
    (Jul 5, …
  * Immunotherapy for Glioblastoma Well Tolerated; Survival Gains Observed
    (Apr 16,…
  * John Sampson on Progress in the Fight Against Brain Cancer (May 25, 2016)
  * Vice President Visits to Discuss Cancer 'Moonshot' (Feb 10, 2016)
  * Dr. John Sampson comments: Experimental headgear extends lives of patients
    with…
  * Duke in Pictures: Celebrating the Department of Neurosurgery (Jul 16,
    2015)
  * Clinical trial provides hope in fight against brain cancer (Jun 2, 2015 |
    CBS N…
  * Tetanus Vaccine Boosts Glioblastoma Immunotherapy (Apr 14, 2015 | Clinical
    Prac…
  * Using polio to kill cancer (Mar 30, 2015 | CBS “60 Minutes)
  * Tetanus Shot Improves Patient Survival With Brain Tumor Immunotherapy (Mar
    12, …
  * Could this vaccine help fight cancer? (Mar 12, 2015 | “NBC Nightly News”)
  * Experimental cancer therapy shown to dramatically prolong life (Mar 12,
    2015 | …
  * Cancer survival boosted by tetanus shot with vaccine (Mar 11, 2015 | The
    Wall S…

## Representative Publications

  * Brown, Michael C., Elena Y. Dobrikova, Mikhail I. Dobrikov, Ross W.
    Walton, Sarah L. Gemberling, Smita K. Nair, Annick Desjardins, et al.
    “Oncolytic polio virotherapy of cancer.” Cancer 120, no. 21 (November 1,
    2014): 3277–86. https://doi.org/10.1002/cncr.28862.
  * Batich, Kristen A., and John H. Sampson. “Standard of care and future
    pharmacological treatment options for malignant glioma: an urgent need for
    screening and identification of novel tumor-specific antigens.” Expert
    Opin Pharmacother 15, no. 14 (October 2014): 2047–61.
    https://doi.org/10.1517/14656566.2014.947266.
  * Kanaly, Charles W., Ankit I. Mehta, Dale Ding, Jenny K. Hoang, Peter G.
    Kranz, James E. Herndon, April Coan, et al. “A novel, reproducible, and
    objective method for volumetric magnetic resonance imaging assessment of
    enhancing glioblastoma.” J Neurosurg 121, no. 3 (September 2014): 536–42.
    https://doi.org/10.3171/2014.4.JNS121952.
  * Babu, Ranjith, Steven Thomas, Matthew A. Hazzard, Allan H. Friedman, John
    H. Sampson, Cory Adamson, Ali R. Zomorodi, et al. “Worse outcomes for
    patients undergoing brain tumor and cerebrovascular procedures following
    the ACGME resident duty-hour restrictions.” J Neurosurg 121, no. 2 (August
    2014): 262–76. https://doi.org/10.3171/2014.5.JNS1314.
  * Nair, Smita K., Gabriel De Leon, David Boczkowski, Robert Schmittling,
    Weihua Xie, Janet Staats, Rebecca Liu, et al. “Recognition and killing of
    autologous, primary glioblastoma tumor cells by human cytomegalovirus
    pp65-specific cytotoxic T cells.” Clin Cancer Res 20, no. 10 (May 15,
    2014): 2684–94. https://doi.org/10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-13-3268.
  * Sampson, John H., Bryan D. Choi, Luis Sanchez-Perez, Carter M.
    Suryadevara, David J. Snyder, Catherine T. Flores, Robert J. Schmittling,
    et al. “EGFRvIII mCAR-modified T-cell therapy cures mice with established
    intracerebral glioma and generates host immunity against tumor-antigen
    loss.” Clin Cancer Res 20, no. 4 (February 15, 2014): 972–84.
    https://doi.org/10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-13-0709.
  * Choi, Bryan D., Carter M. Suryadevara, Patrick C. Gedeon, James E.
    Herndon, Luis Sanchez-Perez, Darell D. Bigner, and John H. Sampson.
    “Intracerebral delivery of a third generation EGFRvIII-specific chimeric
    antigen receptor is efficacious against human glioma.” J Clin Neurosci 21,
    no. 1 (January 2014): 189–90. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jocn.2013.03.012.
  * Miao, Hongsheng, Bryan D. Choi, Carter M. Suryadevara, Luis Sanchez-Perez,
    Shicheng Yang, Gabriel De Leon, Elias J. Sayour, et al. “EGFRvIII-specific
    chimeric antigen receptor T cells migrate to and kill tumor deposits
    infiltrating the brain parenchyma in an invasive xenograft model of
    glioblastoma.” Plos One 9, no. 4 (2014): e94281.
    https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0094281.
  * Swartz, Adam M., Qi-Jing Li, and John H. Sampson. “Rindopepimut: a
    promising immunotherapeutic for the treatment of glioblastoma multiforme.”
    Immunotherapy 6, no. 6 (2014): 679–90. https://doi.org/10.2217/imt.14.21.
  * Heimberger, Amy B., Chris A. Learn, Gary E. Archer, Roger E. McLendon,
    Tracy A. Chewning, Frank L. Tuck, John B. Pracyk, et al. “Brain tumors in
    mice are susceptible to blockade of epidermal growth factor receptor
    (EGFR) with the oral, specific, EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitor ZD1839
    (iressa).” Clin Cancer Res 8, no. 11 (November 2002): 3496–3502.
  * Asaoka, Katsuyuki, David M. Barrs, John H. Sampson, John T. McElveen,
    Debara L. Tucci, and Takanori Fukushima. “Intracanalicular meningioma
    mimicking vestibular schwannoma.” Ajnr Am J Neuroradiol 23, no. 9 (October
    2002): 1493–96.
  * Lal, Anita, Chad A. Glazer, Holly M. Martinson, Henry S. Friedman, Gary E.
    Archer, John H. Sampson, and Gregory J. Riggins. “Mutant epidermal growth
    factor receptor up-regulates molecular effectors of tumor invasion.”
    Cancer Res 62, no. 12 (June 15, 2002): 3335–39.
  * Quinn, Jennifer A., James Pluda, M Eileen Dolan, Shannon Delaney, Richard
    Kaplan, Jeremy N. Rich, Allan H. Friedman, et al. “Phase II trial of
    carmustine plus O(6)-benzylguanine for patients with nitrosourea-resistant
    recurrent or progressive malignant glioma.” J Clin Oncol 20, no. 9 (May 1,
    2002): 2277–83. https://doi.org/10.1200/JCO.2002.09.084.
  * Reardon, David A., Gamal Akabani, R Edward Coleman, Allan H. Friedman,
    Henry S. Friedman, James E. Herndon, Ilkcan Cokgor, et al. “Phase II trial
    of murine (131)I-labeled antitenascin monoclonal antibody 81C6
    administered into surgically created resection cavities of patients with
    newly diagnosed malignant gliomas.” J Clin Oncol 20, no. 5 (March 1,
    2002): 1389–97. https://doi.org/10.1200/JCO.2002.20.5.1389.
  * Wikstrand, Carol J., Vanessa R. Cole, Laura E. Crotty, John H. Sampson,
    and Darell D. Bigner. “Generation of anti-idiotypic reagents in the
    EGFRvIII tumor-associated antigen system.” Cancer Immunol Immunother 50,
    no. 12 (February 2002): 639–52. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00262-001-0243-5.
  * Heimberger, Amy B., Gary E. Archer, Laura E. Crotty, Roger E. McLendon,
    Allan H. Friedman, Henry S. Friedman, Darell D. Bigner, and John H.
    Sampson. “Dendritic cells pulsed with a tumor-specific peptide induce
    long-lasting immunity and are effective against murine intracerebral
    melanoma.” Neurosurgery 50, no. 1 (January 2002): 158–64.
    https://doi.org/10.1097/00006123-200201000-00024.
  * Sampson, J. H., G. E. Archer, A. T. Villavicencio, R. E. McLendon, A. H.
    Friedman, W. R. Bishop, D. D. Bigner, and H. S. Friedman. “Treatment of
    neoplastic meningitis with intrathecal temozolomide.” Clin Cancer Res 5,
    no. 5 (May 1999): 1183–88.
  * Sampson, J. H., J. H. Carter, A. H. Friedman, and H. F. Seigler.
    “Demographics, prognosis, and therapy in 702 patients with brain
    metastases from malignant melanoma.” J Neurosurg 88, no. 1 (January 1998):
    11–20. https://doi.org/10.3171/jns.1998.88.1.0011.
  * Sampson, J. H., G. E. Archer, D. M. Ashley, H. E. Fuchs, L. P. Hale, G.
    Dranoff, and D. D. Bigner. “Subcutaneous vaccination with irradiated,
    cytokine-producing tumor cells stimulates CD8+ cell-mediated immunity
    against tumors located in the "immunologically privileged" central nervous
    system.” Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 93, no. 19 (September 17, 1996):
    10399–404. https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.93.19.10399.

## News from Duke BME

April 14, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Integrated Design Challenge Restores Balance to the Force

March 28, 2023 | **_Duke Institute for Brain Sciences_**

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 20, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

View all news

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

