Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Junjie Yao

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Our mission at PI-Lab is to develop state-of-the-art photoacoustic tomography
(PAT) technologies and translate PAT advances into diagnostic and therapeutic
applications, especially in functional brain imaging and early cancer
theranostics. PAT is the most sensitive modality for imaging rich optical
absorption contrast over a wide range of spatial scales at high speed, and is
one of the fastest growing biomedical imaging technologies. Using numerous
endogenous and exogenous contrasts, PAT can provide high-resolution images at
scales covering organelles, cells, tissues, organs, small-animal organisms, up
to humans, and can reveal tissue’s anatomical, functional, metabolic, and even
histologic properties, with molecular and neuronal specificity.

At PI-Lab, we develop PAT technologies with novel and advanced imaging
performance, in terms of spatial resolutions, imaging speed, penetration
depth, detection sensitivity, and functionality. We are interested with all
aspects of PAT technology innovations, including efficient light illumination,
high-sensitivity ultrasonic detection, super-resolution PAT, high-speed
imaging acquisition, novel PA genetic contrast, and precise image
reconstruction. On top of the technological advancements, we are devoted to
serve the broad life science and medical communities with matching PAT systems
for various research and clinical needs. With its unique contrast mechanism,
high scalability, and inherent functional and molecular imaging capabilities,
PAT is well suited for a variety of pre-clinical applications, especially for
studying tumor angiogenesis, cancer hypoxia, and brain disorders; it is also a
promising tool for clinical applications in procedures such as cancer
screening, melanoma staging, and endoscopic examination.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering
  * Faculty Network Member of the Duke Institute for Brain Sciences
  * Member of the Duke Cancer Institute

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** Hudson Hall Annex 261, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 681-0694
  * **Email Address:** junjie.yao@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Duke Photoacoustics Lab website
    * Google Scholar

## Education

  * Ph.D. Washington University in St. Louis, 2012

## Research Interests

Photoacoustic tomography (PAT) technologies, and translating PAT advances into
diagnostic and therapeutic applications, especially in functional brain
imaging and early cancer theranostics.

## Courses Taught

  * BME 303L: Modern Diagnostic Imaging Systems (AC or GE)
  * BME 493: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 494: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 553: Deep Tissue Optics (GE, IM)
  * BME 590: Special Topics in Biomedical Engineering
  * BME 790L: Advanced Topics with the Lab for Graduate Students in Biomedical
    Engineering
  * BME 791: Graduate Independent Study
  * BME 792: Continuation of Graduate Independent Study

## In the News

  * Glassfrogs Hide Red Blood Cells in Their Liver to Become Transparent (Jan
    3, 20…
  * Using Light and Sound to Reveal Rapid Brain Activity in Unprecedented
    Detail (M…
  * Yao Receives NSF CAREER Award to Monitor the Brain Using Photoacoustic
    Imaging …
  * Check This Out: The Brain During a Heart Attack (Nov 12, 2020)
  * Novel Light and Sound Imaging Could Greatly Enhance Cancer Therapies (Feb
    13, 2…
  * Listening to Blood (Jul 27, 2018 | Duke University School of Medicine
    Alumni Ne…
  * Lasers Make Sound Waves That Reveal Live Views of Organs in Action (May
    10, 201…
  * Junjie Yao: Listening into the Body through Light (Oct 30, 2016)

## Representative Publications

  * Li, Mucong, Nathan Beaumont, Chenshuo Ma, Juan Rojas, Tri Vu, Max
    Harlacher, Graeme O’Connell, et al. “Three-Dimensional Deep-Tissue
    Functional and Molecular Imaging by Integrated Photoacoustic, Ultrasound,
    and Angiographic Tomography (PAUSAT).” Ieee Trans Med Imaging 41, no. 10
    (October 2022): 2704–14. https://doi.org/10.1109/TMI.2022.3168859.
  * Chen, Junqin, Daiwei Li, Wenjun Yu, Zhiteng Ma, Chenhang Li, Gaoming
    Xiang, Yuan Wu, Junjie Yao, and Pei Zhong. “The Effects of Scanning Speed
    and Standoff Distance of the Fiber on Dusting Efficiency during Short
    Pulse Holmium: YAG Laser Lithotripsy.” J Clin Med 11, no. 17 (August 28,
    2022). https://doi.org/10.3390/jcm11175048.
  * Zhang, Huijuan, Wei Bo, Depeng Wang, Anthony DiSpirito, Chuqin Huang,
    Nikhila Nyayapathi, Emily Zheng, et al. “Deep-E: A Fully-Dense Neural
    Network for Improving the Elevation Resolution in Linear-Array-Based
    Photoacoustic Tomography.” Ieee Transactions on Medical Imaging 41, no. 5
    (May 2022): 1279–88. https://doi.org/10.1109/tmi.2021.3137060.
  * Tang, Yuqi, Huaiyu Wu, Paul Klippel, Bohua Zhang, Hsiao-Ying Shadow Huang,
    Yun Jing, Xiaoning Jiang, and Junjie Yao. “Deep thrombosis
    characterization using photoacoustic imaging with intravascular light
    delivery.” Biomedical Engineering Letters 12, no. 2 (May 2022): 135–45.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s13534-022-00216-0.
  * Kasatkina, Ludmila A., Chenshuo Ma, Mikhail E. Matlashov, Tri Vu, Mucong
    Li, Andrii A. Kaberniuk, Junjie Yao, and Vladislav V. Verkhusha.
    “Optogenetic manipulation and photoacoustic imaging using a near-infrared
    transgenic mouse model.” Nature Communications 13, no. 1 (May 2022): 2813.
    https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-022-30547-6.
  * Duan, Tingyang, Xiaorui Peng, Maomao Chen, Dong Zhang, Fei Gao, and Junjie
    Yao. “Detection of weak optical absorption by optical-resolution
    photoacoustic microscopy.” Photoacoustics 25 (March 2022): 100335.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pacs.2022.100335.
  * Dong, Biqin, Junjie Yao, and Xosé Luís Deán-Ben. “Editorial: Advances in
    Photoacoustic Neuroimaging.” Frontiers in Neuroscience 16 (January 2022):
    859515. https://doi.org/10.3389/fnins.2022.859515.
  * Li, Mucong, Juanjuan Gu, Tri Vu, Georgy Sankin, Pei Zhong, Junjie Yao, and
    Yun Jing. “Time-Resolved Passive Cavitation Mapping Using the Transient
    Angular Spectrum Approach.” Ieee Transactions on Ultrasonics,
    Ferroelectrics, and Frequency Control 68, no. 7 (July 2021): 2361–69.
    https://doi.org/10.1109/tuffc.2021.3062357.
  * Zhang, Dong, Ran Li, Maomao Chen, Tri Vu, Huaxin Sheng, Wei Yang, Ulrike
    Hoffmann, Jianwen Luo, and Junjie Yao. “Photoacoustic imaging of in vivo
    hemodynamic responses to sodium nitroprusside.” J Biophotonics 14, no. 7
    (July 2021): e202000478. https://doi.org/10.1002/jbio.202000478.
  * Tang, Yuqi, and Junjie Yao. “3D Monte Carlo simulation of light
    distribution in mouse brain in quantitative photoacoustic computed
    tomography.” Quantitative Imaging in Medicine and Surgery 11, no. 3 (March
    2021): 1046–59. https://doi.org/10.21037/qims-20-815.
  * DiSpirito, Anthony, Daiwei Li, Tri Vu, Maomao Chen, Dong Zhang, Jianwen
    Luo, Roarke Horstmeyer, and Junjie Yao. “Reconstructing Undersampled
    Photoacoustic Microscopy Images Using Deep Learning.” Ieee Transactions on
    Medical Imaging 40, no. 2 (February 2021): 562–70.
    https://doi.org/10.1109/tmi.2020.3031541.
  * Li, Mucong, Georgy Sankin, Tri Vu, Junjie Yao, and Pei Zhong. “Tri-
    modality cavitation mapping in shock wave lithotripsy.” The Journal of the
    Acoustical Society of America 149, no. 2 (February 2021): 1258.
    https://doi.org/10.1121/10.0003555.
  * Li, Mucong, Tri Vu, Georgy Sankin, Brenton Winship, Kohldon Boydston,
    Russell Terry, Pei Zhong, and Junjie Yao. “Internal-Illumination
    Photoacoustic Tomography Enhanced by a Graded-Scattering Fiber Diffuser.”
    Ieee Transactions on Medical Imaging 40, no. 1 (January 2021): 346–56.
    https://doi.org/10.1109/tmi.2020.3027199.
  * III, Anthony DiSpirito, Daiwei Li, Tri Vu, Maomao Chen, Dong Zhang,
    Jianwen Luo, Roarke Horstmeyer, and Junjie Yao. “Reconstructing
    Undersampled Photoacoustic Microscopy Images Using Deep Learning.” Ieee
    Trans. Medical Imaging 40 (2021): 562–70.
    https://doi.org/10.1109/TMI.2020.3031541.
  * Wu, H., Y. Tang, H. Kim, J. Yao, and X. Jiang. “Fiber based laser
    ultrasound transducer for intravascular thrombolysis with detective
    photoacoustic imaging.” In Ieee International Ultrasonics Symposium, Ius,
    Vol. 2020-September, 2020. https://doi.org/10.1109/IUS46767.2020.9251732.
  * Yao, J. “Ultrasfast Wide-field Photoacoustic Microscopy of Small-animal
    Models.” In 2020 Ieee Photonics Conference, Ipc 2020 Proceedings, 2020.
    https://doi.org/10.1109/IPC47351.2020.9252208.
  * Li, M., and J. Yao. “Internal-Illumination Photoacoustic Tomography
    Enhanced by a Graded-scattering Fiber Diffuser.” In 2020 Ieee Photonics
    Conference, Ipc 2020 Proceedings, 2020.
    https://doi.org/10.1109/IPC47351.2020.9252241.
  * Vu, Tri, Mucong Li, Hannah Humayun, Yuan Zhou, and Junjie Yao. “A
    generative adversarial network for artifact removal in photoacoustic
    computed tomography with a linear-array transducer.” Experimental Biology
    and Medicine (Maywood, N.J.) 245, no. 7 (April 2020): 597–605.
    https://doi.org/10.1177/1535370220914285.
  * Li, Yang, Lei Li, Liren Zhu, Konstantin Maslov, Junhui Shi, Peng Hu, En
    Bo, et al. “Snapshot Photoacoustic Topography Through an Ergodic Relay for
    High-throughput Imaging of Optical Absorption.” Nature Photonics 14, no. 3
    (March 2020): 164–70. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41566-019-0576-2.
  * Li, Mucong, Bangxin Lan, Georgii Sankin, Yuan Zhou, Wei Liu, Jun Xia,
    Depeng Wang, Gregg Trahey, Pei Zhong, and Junjie Yao. “Simultaneous
    Photoacoustic Imaging and Cavitation Mapping in Shockwave Lithotripsy.”
    Ieee Transactions on Medical Imaging 39, no. 2 (February 2020): 468–77.
    https://doi.org/10.1109/tmi.2019.2928740.
  * Onufer, Emily J., Bola Aladegbami, Toru Imai, Kristen Seiler, Adam
    Bajinting, Cathleen Courtney, Stephanie Sutton, et al. “EGFR in
    enterocytes & endothelium and HIF1α in enterocytes are dispensable for
    massive small bowel resection induced angiogenesis.” Plos One 15, no. 9
    (January 2020): e0236964. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0236964.
  * Tang, Yuqi, Xuejun Qian, Darrin J. Lee, Qifa Zhou, and Junjie Yao. “From
    Light to Sound: Photoacoustic and Ultrasound Imaging in Fundamental
    Research of Alzheimer's Disease.” Obm Neurobiology 4, no. 2 (January
    2020). https://doi.org/10.21926/obm.neurobiol.2002056.
  * Vu, Tri, Daniel Razansky, and Junjie Yao. “Listening to tissues with new
    light: recent technological advances in photoacoustic imaging.” Journal of
    Optics (2010) 21, no. 10 (October 2019).
    https://doi.org/10.1088/2040-8986/ab3b1a.
  * Chen, Maomao, Hailey J. Knox, Yuqi Tang, Wei Liu, Liming Nie, Jefferson
    Chan, and Junjie Yao. “Simultaneous photoacoustic imaging of intravascular
    and tissue oxygenation.” Optics Letters 44, no. 15 (August 2019): 3773–76.
    https://doi.org/10.1364/ol.44.003773.
  * Liang, Bingyang, Wei Liu, Qiwei Zhan, Mucong Li, Mingwei Zhuang, Qing H.
    Liu, and Junjie Yao. “Impacts of the murine skull on high-frequency
    transcranial photoacoustic brain imaging.” Journal of Biophotonics 12, no.
    7 (July 2019): e201800466. https://doi.org/10.1002/jbio.201800466.
  * Humayun, Hannah, and Junjie Yao. “Imaging the aged brain: pertinence and
    methods.” Quantitative Imaging in Medicine and Surgery 9, no. 5 (May
    2019): 842–57. https://doi.org/10.21037/qims.2019.05.06.
  * Zhou, Yuan, Mucong Li, Wei Liu, Georgy Sankin, Jianwen Luo, Pei Zhong, and
    Junjie Yao. “Thermal Memory Based Photoacoustic Imaging of Temperature.”
    Optica 6, no. 2 (February 2019): 198–205.
    https://doi.org/10.1364/optica.6.000198.
  * Lan, Bangxin, Wei Liu, Ya-Chao Wang, Junhui Shi, Yang Li, Song Xu, Huaxin
    Sheng, et al. “High-speed widefield photoacoustic microscopy of small-
    animal hemodynamics.” Biomed Opt Express 9, no. 10 (October 1, 2018):
    4689–4701. https://doi.org/10.1364/BOE.9.004689.
  * Vienneau, Emelina, Wei Liu, and Junjie Yao. “Dual-view acoustic-resolution
    photoacoustic microscopy with enhanced resolution isotropy.” Optics
    Letters 43, no. 18 (September 2018): 4413–16.
    https://doi.org/10.1364/ol.43.004413.
  * Shi, Junhui, Yuqi Tang, and Junjie Yao. “Advances in super-resolution
    photoacoustic imaging.” Quantitative Imaging in Medicine and Surgery 8,
    no. 8 (September 2018): 724–32. https://doi.org/10.21037/qims.2018.09.14.
  * Liu, Wei, Daria M. Shcherbakova, Neel Kurupassery, Yang Li, Qifa Zhou,
    Vladislav V. Verkhusha, and Junjie Yao. “Quad-mode functional and
    molecular photoacoustic microscopy.” Scientific Reports 8, no. 1 (July
    2018): 11123. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-018-29249-1.
  * Li, Lei, Anton A. Shemetov, Mikhail Baloban, Peng Hu, Liren Zhu, Daria M.
    Shcherbakova, Ruiying Zhang, et al. “Small near-infrared photochromic
    protein for photoacoustic multi-contrast imaging and detection of protein
    interactions in vivo.” Nature Communications 9, no. 1 (July 2018): 2734.
    https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-018-05231-3.
  * Liu, Wei, Yuan Zhou, Mengran Wang, Lei Li, Emelina Vienneau, Ruimin Chen,
    Jianwen Luo, et al. “Correcting the limited view in optical-resolution
    photoacoustic microscopy.” Journal of Biophotonics 11, no. 2 (February
    2018). https://doi.org/10.1002/jbio.201700196.
  * Liu, Wei, Bangxin Lan, Leo Hu, Ruimin Chen, Qifa Zhou, and Junjie Yao.
    “Photoacoustic thermal flowmetry with a single light source.” Journal of
    Biomedical Optics 22, no. 9 (September 2017): 1–6.
    https://doi.org/10.1117/1.jbo.22.9.096001.
  * Brunker, Joanna, Junjie Yao, Jan Laufer, and Sarah E. Bohndiek.
    “Photoacoustic imaging using genetically encoded reporters: a review.”
    Journal of Biomedical Optics 22, no. 7 (July 2017).
    https://doi.org/10.1117/1.jbo.22.7.070901.
  * Yao, Junjie. “When pressure meets light: detecting the photoacoustic
    effect at the origin.” Light, Science & Applications 6, no. 6 (June 2017):
    e17062. https://doi.org/10.1038/lsa.2017.62.
  * Li, Lei, Liren Zhu, Cheng Ma, Li Lin, Junjie Yao, Lidai Wang, Konstantin
    Maslov, et al. “Single-impulse Panoramic Photoacoustic Computed Tomography
    of Small-animal Whole-body Dynamics at High Spatiotemporal Resolution.”
    Nature Biomedical Engineering 1, no. 5 (January 2017): 0071.
    https://doi.org/10.1038/s41551-017-0071.
  * Wang, Lihong V., and Junjie Yao. “A practical guide to photoacoustic
    tomography in the life sciences.” Nature Methods 13, no. 8 (July 2016):
    627–38. https://doi.org/10.1038/nmeth.3925.
  * Zhou, Yong, Junjie Yao, and Lihong V. Wang. “Tutorial on photoacoustic
    tomography.” Journal of Biomedical Optics 21, no. 6 (June 2016): 61007.
    https://doi.org/10.1117/1.jbo.21.6.061007.
  * Lin, Li, Junjie Yao, Lei Li, and Lihong V. Wang. “In vivo photoacoustic
    tomography of myoglobin oxygen saturation.” Journal of Biomedical Optics
    21, no. 6 (June 2016): 61002. https://doi.org/10.1117/1.jbo.21.6.061002.
  * Hai, Pengfei, Junjie Yao, Guo Li, Chiye Li, and Lihong V. Wang.
    “Photoacoustic elastography.” Optics Letters 41, no. 4 (February 2016):
    725–28. https://doi.org/10.1364/ol.41.000725.
  * Yao, Junjie, Andrii A. Kaberniuk, Lei Li, Daria M. Shcherbakova, Ruiying
    Zhang, Lidai Wang, Guo Li, Vladislav V. Verkhusha, and Lihong V. Wang.
    “Multiscale photoacoustic tomography using reversibly switchable bacterial
    phytochrome as a near-infrared photochromic probe.” Nature Methods 13, no.
    1 (January 2016): 67–73. https://doi.org/10.1038/nmeth.3656.
  * Yao, Junjie, Lidai Wang, Joon-Mo Yang, Konstantin I. Maslov, Terence T. W.
    Wong, Lei Li, Chih-Hsien Huang, Jun Zou, and Lihong V. Wang. “High-speed
    label-free functional photoacoustic microscopy of mouse brain in action.”
    Nature Methods 12, no. 5 (May 2015): 407–10.
    https://doi.org/10.1038/nmeth.3336.
  * Yao, Junjie, Liang Song, and Lihing V. Wang. “Photoacoustic microscopy:
    superdepth, superresolution, and superb contrast.” Ieee Pulse 6, no. 3
    (May 2015): 34–37. https://doi.org/10.1109/mpul.2015.2409100.
  * Xia, Jun, Junjie Yao, and Lihong V. Wang. “Photoacoustic tomography:
    principles and advances.” Electromagnetic Waves (Cambridge, Mass.) 147
    (January 2014): 1–22. https://doi.org/10.2528/pier14032303.
  * Wang, Lidai, Junjie Yao, Konstantin I. Maslov, Wenxin Xing, and Lihong V.
    Wang. “Ultrasound-heated photoacoustic flowmetry.” Journal of Biomedical
    Optics 18, no. 11 (November 2013): 117003.
    https://doi.org/10.1117/1.jbo.18.11.117003.
  * Yao, Junjie, and Lihong V. Wang. “Photoacoustic Microscopy.” Laser &
    Photonics Reviews 7, no. 5 (September 2013).
    https://doi.org/10.1002/lpor.201200060.
  * Zhang, Ruiying, Junjie Yao, Konstantin I. Maslov, and Lihong V. Wang.
    “Structured-illumination photoacoustic Doppler flowmetry of axial flow in
    homogeneous scattering media.” Applied Physics Letters 103, no. 9 (August
    2013): 94101. https://doi.org/10.1063/1.4819735.
  * Zhou, Yong, Junjie Yao, and Lihong V. Wang. “Optical clearing-aided
    photoacoustic microscopy with enhanced resolution and imaging depth.”
    Optics Letters 38, no. 14 (July 2013): 2592–95.
    https://doi.org/10.1364/ol.38.002592.
  * Rowland, Kathryn J., Junjie Yao, Lidai Wang, Christopher R. Erwin,
    Konstantin I. Maslov, Lihong V. Wang, and Brad W. Warner. “Up-regulation
    of hypoxia-inducible factor 1 alpha and hemodynamic responses following
    massive small bowel resection.” Journal of Pediatric Surgery 48, no. 6
    (June 2013): 1330–39. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2013.03.031.
  * Cai, Xin, Yu Zhang, Li Li, Sung-Wook Choi, Matthew R. MacEwan, Junjie Yao,
    Chulhong Kim, Younan Xia, and Lihong V. Wang. “Investigation of
    neovascularization in three-dimensional porous scaffolds in vivo by a
    combination of multiscale photoacoustic microscopy and optical coherence
    tomography.” Tissue Engineering. Part C, Methods 19, no. 3 (March 2013):
    196–204. https://doi.org/10.1089/ten.tec.2012.0326.
  * Yao, Junjie, Jun Xia, Konstantin I. Maslov, Mohammadreza Nasiriavanaki,
    Vassiliy Tsytsarev, Alexei V. Demchenko, and Lihong V. Wang. “Noninvasive
    photoacoustic computed tomography of mouse brain metabolism in vivo.”
    Neuroimage 64 (January 2013): 257–66.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2012.08.054.
  * Huang, Chih-Hsien, Junjie Yao, Lihong V. Wang, and Jun Zou. “A water-
    immersible 2-axis scanning mirror microsystem for ultrasound andha
    photoacoustic microscopic imaging applications.” Microsystem Technologies
    : Sensors, Actuators, Systems Integration 19, no. 4 (January 2013):
    577–82. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00542-012-1660-4.
  * Zhang, Chi, Konstantin Maslov, Junjie Yao, and Lihong V. Wang. “In vivo
    photoacoustic microscopy with 7.6-µm axial resolution using a commercial
    125-MHz ultrasonic transducer.” Journal of Biomedical Optics 17, no. 11
    (November 2012): 116016. https://doi.org/10.1117/1.jbo.17.11.116016.
  * Yang, Joon-Mo, Ruimin Chen, Christopher Favazza, Junjie Yao, Chiye Li,
    Zhilin Hu, Qifa Zhou, K Kirk Shung, and Lihong V. Wang. “A 2.5-mm diameter
    probe for photoacoustic and ultrasonic endoscopy.” Optics Express 20, no.
    21 (October 2012): 23944–53. https://doi.org/10.1364/oe.20.023944.
  * Yao, Junjie, Chih-Hsien Huang, Lidai Wang, Joon-Mo Yang, Liang Gao,
    Konstantin I. Maslov, Jun Zou, and Lihong V. Wang. “Wide-field fast-
    scanning photoacoustic microscopy based on a water-immersible MEMS
    scanning mirror.” Journal of Biomedical Optics 17, no. 8 (August 2012):
    080505–080501. https://doi.org/10.1117/1.jbo.17.8.080505.
  * Yang, Joon-Mo, Christopher Favazza, Ruimin Chen, Junjie Yao, Xin Cai,
    Konstantin Maslov, Qifa Zhou, K Kirk Shung, and Lihong V. Wang.
    “Simultaneous functional photoacoustic and ultrasonic endoscopy of
    internal organs in vivo.” Nature Medicine 18, no. 8 (August 2012):
    1297–1302. https://doi.org/10.1038/nm.2823.
  * Yao, Junjie, Konstantin I. Maslov, and Lihong V. Wang. “In vivo
    photoacoustic tomography of total blood flow and potential imaging of
    cancer angiogenesis and hypermetabolism.” Technology in Cancer Research &
    Treatment 11, no. 4 (August 2012): 301–7.
    https://doi.org/10.7785/tcrt.2012.500278.
  * Rowland, Kathryn J., Junjie Yao, Lidai Wang, Christopher R. Erwin,
    Konstantin I. Maslov, Lihong V. Wang, and Brad W. Warner. “Immediate
    alterations in intestinal oxygen saturation and blood flow after massive
    small bowel resection as measured by photoacoustic microscopy.” Journal of
    Pediatric Surgery 47, no. 6 (June 2012): 1143–49.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2012.03.020.
  * Krumholz, Arie, Lidai Wang, Junjie Yao, and Lihong V. Wang. “Functional
    photoacoustic microscopy of diabetic vasculature.” Journal of Biomedical
    Optics 17, no. 6 (June 2012): 060502.
    https://doi.org/10.1117/1.jbo.17.6.060502.
  * Yao, Junjie, Konstantin I. Maslov, Ernest R. Puckett, Kathryn J. Rowland,
    Brad W. Warner, and Lihong V. Wang. “Double-illumination photoacoustic
    microscopy.” Optics Letters 37, no. 4 (February 2012): 659–61.
    https://doi.org/10.1364/ol.37.000659.
  * Filonov, Grigory S., Arie Krumholz, Jun Xia, Junjie Yao, Lihong V. Wang,
    and Vladislav V. Verkhusha. “Deep-tissue photoacoustic tomography of a
    genetically encoded near-infrared fluorescent probe.” Angewandte Chemie
    (International Ed. in English) 51, no. 6 (February 2012): 1448–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201107026.
  * Tsytsarev, Vassiliy, Konstantin I. Maslov, Junjie Yao, Archana R.
    Parameswar, Alexei V. Demchenko, and Lihong V. Wang. “In vivo imaging of
    epileptic activity using 2-NBDG, a fluorescent deoxyglucose analog.”
    Journal of Neuroscience Methods 203, no. 1 (January 2012): 136–40.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jneumeth.2011.09.005.
  * Chatni, Muhammad Rameez, Junjie Yao, Amos Danielli, Christopher P.
    Favazza, Konstantin I. Maslov, and Lihong V. Wang. “Functional
    photoacoustic microscopy of pH.” Journal of Biomedical Optics 16, no. 10
    (October 2011): 100503. https://doi.org/10.1117/1.3644495.
  * Yao, Junjie, and Lihong V. Wang. “Photoacoustic tomography: fundamentals,
    advances and prospects.” Contrast Media & Molecular Imaging 6, no. 5
    (September 2011): 332–45. https://doi.org/10.1002/cmmi.443.
  * Krumholz, Arie, Sarah J. Vanvickle-Chavez, Junjie Yao, Timothy P. Fleming,
    William E. Gillanders, and Lihong V. Wang. “Photoacoustic microscopy of
    tyrosinase reporter gene in vivo.” Journal of Biomedical Optics 16, no. 8
    (August 2011): 080503. https://doi.org/10.1117/1.3606568.
  * Oladipupo, Sunday, Song Hu, Joanna Kovalski, Junjie Yao, Andrea Santeford,
    Rebecca E. Sohn, Ralph Shohet, Konstantin Maslov, Lihong V. Wang, and
    Jeffrey M. Arbeit. “VEGF is essential for hypoxia-inducible factor-
    mediated neovascularization but dispensable for endothelial sprouting.”
    Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of
    America 108, no. 32 (August 2011): 13264–69.
    https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1101321108.
  * Tsytsarev, Vassiliy, Song Hu, Junjie Yao, Konstantin Maslov, Dennis L.
    Barbour, and Lihong V. Wang. “Photoacoustic microscopy of microvascular
    responses to cortical electrical stimulation.” Journal of Biomedical
    Optics 16, no. 7 (July 2011): 076002. https://doi.org/10.1117/1.3594785.
  * Yao, Junjie, Konstantin I. Maslov, Yu Zhang, Younan Xia, and Lihong V.
    Wang. “Label-free oxygen-metabolic photoacoustic microscopy in vivo.”
    Journal of Biomedical Optics 16, no. 7 (July 2011): 076003.
    https://doi.org/10.1117/1.3594786.
  * Oladipupo, Sunday S., Song Hu, Andrea C. Santeford, Junjie Yao, Joanna R.
    Kovalski, Ralph V. Shohet, Konstantin Maslov, Lihong V. Wang, and Jeffrey
    M. Arbeit. “Conditional HIF-1 induction produces multistage
    neovascularization with stage-specific sensitivity to VEGFR inhibitors and
    myeloid cell independence.” Blood 117, no. 15 (April 2011): 4142–53.
    https://doi.org/10.1182/blood-2010-09-307538.
  * Wang, Lidai, Konstantin Maslov, Junjie Yao, Bin Rao, and Lihong V. Wang.
    “Fast voice-coil scanning optical-resolution photoacoustic microscopy.”
    Optics Letters 36, no. 2 (January 2011): 139–41.
    https://doi.org/10.1364/ol.36.000139.
  * Kim, Chulhong, Hyon-Min Song, Xin Cai, Junjie Yao, Alexander Wei, and
    Lihong V. Wang. “In vivo photoacoustic mapping of lymphatic systems with
    plasmon-resonant nanostars.” Journal of Materials Chemistry 21, no. 9
    (January 2011): 2841–44. https://doi.org/10.1039/c0jm04194g.
  * Yao, Junjie, Konstantin I. Maslov, Yunfei Shi, Larry A. Taber, and Lihong
    V. Wang. “In vivo photoacoustic imaging of transverse blood flow by using
    Doppler broadening of bandwidth.” Optics Letters 35, no. 9 (May 2010):
    1419–21. https://doi.org/10.1364/ol.35.001419.
  * Yao, Junjie, and Lihong V. Wang. “Transverse flow imaging based on
    photoacoustic Doppler bandwidth broadening.” Journal of Biomedical Optics
    15, no. 2 (March 2010): 021304. https://doi.org/10.1117/1.3339953.
  * Yao, Junjie, Konstantin Maslov, Song Hu, and Lihong V. Wang. “Evans blue
    dye-enhanced capillary-resolution photoacoustic microscopy in vivo.”
    Journal of Biomedical Optics 14, no. 5 (September 2009): 054049.
    https://doi.org/10.1117/1.3251044.
  * Song, X. L., G. Hu, J. J. Yao, and J. Bai. “Three-dimensional
    reconstruction for fluorescence tomography using cylinder phantoms.” Ruan
    Jian Xue Bao/Journal of Software 20, no. 5 (May 1, 2009): 1089–95.
    https://doi.org/10.3724/SP.J.1001.2009.03560.
  * Yao, J. J., G. Hu, and J. Bai. “Modeling and validation of light
    propagation in free-space for non-contact near-infrared fluorescent
    tomography.” Hongwai Yu Haomibo Xuebao/Journal of Infrared and Millimeter
    Waves 27, no. 5 (October 1, 2008).
  * Yao, J. J., G. Hu, S. H. Yue, and J. Bai. “A 3D-surface torso
    reconstruction method used in fluorescence molecular tomography of small
    animals.” Chinese Journal of Biomedical Engineering 27, no. 3 (June 1,
    2008): 360–65.
  * Hu, G., J. Yao, and J. Bai. “Full-angle optical imaging of near-infrared
    fluorescent probes implanted in small animals.” Progress in Natural
    Science 18, no. 6 (January 1, 2008): 707–11.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pnsc.2007.11.021.

## News from Duke BME

April 14, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Integrated Design Challenge Restores Balance to the Force

March 28, 2023 | **_Duke Institute for Brain Sciences_**

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 20, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

View all news

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

