Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Kathryn Radabaugh Nightingale

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Theo Pilkington Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

The goals of our laboratory are to investigate and improve ultrasonic imaging
methods for clinically-relevant problems. We do this through theoretical,
experimental, and simulation methods. The main focus of our recent work is the
development of novel, acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI)-based elasticity
imaging methods to generate images of the mechanical properties of tissue,
involving interdisciplinary research in ultrasonics and tissue biomechanics.
We have access to the engineering interfaces of several commercial ultrasound
systems which allows us to design, rapidly prototype, and experimentally
demonstrate custom sequences to explore novel beamforming and imaging
concepts. We employ FEM modeling methods to simulate the behavior of tissues
during mechanical excitation, and we have integrated these tools with
ultrasonic imaging modeling tools to simulate the ARFI imaging process. We
maintain strong collaborations with the Duke University Medical Center where
we work to translate our technologies to clinical practice. The ARFI imaging
technologies we have developed have served as the basis for commercial imaging
technologies that are now being used in clinics throughout the world. We are
also studying the risks and benefits of increasing acoustic output energy for
specific clinical imaging scenarios, with the goal of improving ultrasonic
image quality in the difficult-to-image patient.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Theo Pilkington Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering
  * Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering
  * Member of the Duke Cancer Institute
  * Bass Fellow

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 277 Hudson Hall Annex, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5175
  * **Email Address:** kathy.nightingale@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Google Scholar
    * http://kathynightingalelab.pratt.duke.edu/

## Education

  * B.S. Duke University, 1989
  * Ph.D. Duke University, 1997

## Research Interests

Ultrasonic and elasticity imaging, specifically nonlinear propagation,
acoustic streaming and radiation force; the intentional generation of these
phenomena for the purpose of tissue characterization; finite element modeling
of normal and diseased tissue when exposed to ultrasound, and performing both
phantom and clinical experiments investigating these phenomena. Other areas of
interest include prostate imaging, abdominal imaging, image-guided therapies,
and the bioeffects of ultrasound.

## Courses Taught

  * BME 354L: Introduction to Medical Instrumentation
  * BME 493-1: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 494: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 542: Principles of Ultrasound Imaging (GE, IM)
  * BME 845: Elasticity Imaging

## In the News

  * Nightingale, Wilson Elected Fellows of the National Academy of Inventors
    (Dec 6…
  * Duke Adds 21 Faculty to Distinguished Faculty Rank (May 7, 2019)
  * Bringing Scholarship to the Classroom (Nov 19, 2013 | Duke Today)

## Representative Publications

  * Paley, Courtney Trutna, Anna E. Knight, Felix Q. Jin, Spencer R.
    Moavenzadeh, Laura S. Pietrosimone, Lisa D. Hobson-Webb, Ned C. Rouze,
    Mark L. Palmeri, and Kathryn R. Nightingale. “Repeatability of Rotational
    3-D Shear Wave Elasticity Imaging Measurements in Skeletal Muscle.”
    Ultrasound Med Biol 49, no. 3 (March 2023): 750–60.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2022.10.012.
  * Zhang, Bofeng, Nick Bottenus, Felix Q. Jin, and Kathryn R. Nightingale.
    “Quantifying the Impact of Imaging Through Body Walls on Shear Wave
    Elasticity Measurements.” Ultrasound in Medicine & Biology 49, no. 3
    (March 2023): 734–49. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2022.10.005.
  * Knight, Anna E., Felix Q. Jin, Courtney Trutna Paley, Ned C. Rouze,
    Spencer R. Moavenzadeh, Laura S. Pietrosimone, Mark L. Palmeri, and
    Kathryn R. Nightingale. “Parametric Analysis of SV Mode Shear Waves in
    Transversely Isotropic Materials Using Ultrasonic Rotational 3-D SWEI.”
    Ieee Trans Ultrason Ferroelectr Freq Control 69, no. 11 (November 2022):
    3145–54. https://doi.org/10.1109/TUFFC.2022.3203935.
  * McCune, Erica P., David Q. Le, Peter Lindholm, Kathryn R. Nightingale,
    Paul A. Dayton, and Virginie Papadopoulou. “Perspective on ultrasound
    bioeffects and possible implications for continuous post-dive monitoring
    safety.” Diving and Hyperbaric Medicine 52, no. 2 (June 2022): 136–48.
    https://doi.org/10.28920/dhm52.2.136-148.
  * Rouze, Ned C., Annette Caenen, and Kathryn R. Nightingale. “Phase and
    group velocities for shear wave propagation in an incompressible,
    hyperelastic material with uniaxial stretch.” Physics in Medicine and
    Biology 67, no. 9 (April 2022). https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-6560/ac5bfc.

## News from Duke BME

April 14, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Integrated Design Challenge Restores Balance to the Force

March 28, 2023 | **_Duke Institute for Brain Sciences_**

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 20, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

View all news

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

