Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Martin Paul Tornai

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Associate Professor of Radiology

The major research focus of my laboratory concerns high resolution and
sensitivity molecular imaging of normalcy and/or disease in the breast using
dedicated molecular 3D imaging techniques. Particular attention is paid to
improved patient comfort such that no breast compression is necessary, which
then dictates novel physics and engineering approaches to obtaining the
highest quality data. The term "molecular imaging" means determining the
spatial distribution of biological materials based on their molecular
characteristics. Two examples include: the in vivo detection and spatial
localization of tracer quantities of discretely emitted nuclear radiation
which can be used to quantitatively measure aspects of the biological system
(e.g. reaction kinetics, hyper/hypo-metabolism, etc.), and the in vivo spatial
localization of objects based on their intrinsic physical properties, e.g.
differentiation of skin, fat and connective tissue based on differences in
their intrinsic electron densities.  
  
Two classes of devices have been developed, are in refinement and are
undergoing patient studies: (1) a dedicated, fully 3D, volumetric imaging
Single Photon Emission Computed Tomograph (SPECT) device which produces
functional molecular images with high resolution and sensitivity; and (2) a
dedicated, fully 3D, volumetric x-ray CT device which incorporates a novel
quasi-monochromatic x-ray source allowing more optimal imaging with lower
radiation doses which produces molecular anatomical images. Along with
geometric calibration objects, small animals and cadaveric breast tissue
samples have been scanned, yielding high resolution and high quality in vivo
images. Patient imaging has successfully begun on these novel developed
systems. We have integrated a flexible patient bed to help comfortably
position patients in each systems' field of view. Further, the individual
systems have been integrated to form a hybrid SPECT/CT mammotomograph
providing inherently coregistered, fully 3D, complementary
molecular/anatomical information for the same patient and in a common field of
view. These technologies could be used for diagnostic purposes, monitoring
therapy and/or treatment planning, screening difficult or otherwise
inconclusive breasts or scanning women at high risk for breast cancer. Due to
the very low x-ray radiation doses possible to obtain the 3D images, the CT
system could potentially be used to screen the population at large.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Associate Professor of Radiology
  * Member of the Duke Cancer Institute

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** Circuit Drive, Research Park Bldg, Rm 118, Durham, NC
    27710
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 684-7940
  * **Email Address:** martin.tornai@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Google Scholar

## Education

  * B.S. Cornell University, 1989
  * Ph.D. University of California - Los Angeles, 1997
  * University of California - Los Angeles, 1997

## Courses Taught

  * MEDPHY 745: Advanced Topics in Nuclear Medicine
  * MEDPHY 751-4: Frontiers of Biomedical Science

## Representative Publications

  * Crotty, D. J., R. L. McKinley, and M. P. Tornai. “Experimental spectral
    measurements of heavy K-edge filtered beams for x-ray computed
    mammotomography.” Phys Med Biol 52, no. 3 (February 7, 2007): 603–16.
    https://doi.org/10.1088/0031-9155/52/3/005.
  * Brzymialkiewicz, C. N., M. P. Tornai, R. L. McKinley, S. J. Cutler, and J.
    E. Bowsher. “Performance of dedicated emission mammotomography for various
    breast shapes and sizes.” Phys Med Biol 51, no. 19 (October 7, 2006):
    5051–64. https://doi.org/10.1088/0031-9155/51/19/021.
  * Brzymialkiewicz, Caryl N., Martin P. Tornai, Randolph L. McKinley, and
    James E. Bowsher. “Evaluation of fully 3-D emission mammotomography with a
    compact cadmium zinc telluride detector.” Ieee Trans Med Imaging 24, no. 7
    (July 2005): 868–77. https://doi.org/10.1109/tmi.2005.852501.
  * Samei, Ehsan, James T. Dobbins, Joseph Y. Lo, and Martin P. Tornai. “A
    framework for optimising the radiographic technique in digital X-ray
    imaging.” Radiat Prot Dosimetry 114, no. 1–3 (2005): 220–29.
    https://doi.org/10.1093/rpd/nch562.
  * McKinley, Randolph L., Martin P. Tornai, Ehsan Samei, and Marques L.
    Bradshaw. “Simulation study of a quasi-monochromatic beam for x-ray
    computed mammotomography.” Med Phys 31, no. 4 (April 2004): 800–813.
    https://doi.org/10.1118/1.1668371.
  * Tornai, Martin P., James E. Bowsher, Ronald J. Jaszczak, Brett C. Pieper,
    Kim L. Greer, Patricia H. Hardenbergh, and R Edward Coleman.
    “Mammotomography with pinhole incomplete circular orbit SPECT.” J Nucl Med
    44, no. 4 (April 2003): 583–93.
  * Tornai, Martin P., Bradley E. Patt, Jan S. Iwanczyk, Carolyn R. Tull,
    Lawrence R. MacDonald, and Edward J. Hoffman. “A novel silicon array
    designed for intraoperative charged particle imaging.” Med Phys 29, no. 11
    (November 2002): 2529–40. https://doi.org/10.1118/1.1514241.
  * Bowsher, J. E., M. P. Tornai, J. Peter, D. E. González Trotter, A. Krol,
    D. R. Gilland, and R. J. Jaszczak. “Modeling the axial extension of a
    transmission line source within iterative reconstruction via multiple
    transmission sources.” Ieee Trans Med Imaging 21, no. 3 (March 2002):
    200–215. https://doi.org/10.1109/42.996339.
  * Krol, A., J. E. Bowsher, S. H. Manglos, D. H. Feiglin, M. P. Tornai, and
    F. D. Thomas. “An EM algorithm for estimating SPECT emission and
    transmission parameters from emissions data only.” Ieee Trans Med Imaging
    20, no. 3 (March 2001): 218–32. https://doi.org/10.1109/42.918472.
  * Peter, J., M. P. Tornai, and R. J. Jaszczek. “Analytical versus voxelized
    phantom representation for Monte Carlo simulation in radiological
    imaging.” Ieee Trans Med Imaging 19, no. 5 (May 2000): 556–64.
    https://doi.org/10.1109/42.870266.
  * Hoffman, E. J., M. P. Tornai, M. Janecek, B. E. Patt, and J. S. Iwanczyk.
    “Intraoperative probes and imaging probes.” Eur J Nucl Med 26, no. 8
    (August 1999): 913–35. https://doi.org/10.1007/s002590050468.
  * Tornai, M. P., R. J. Jaszczak, T. G. Turkington, and R. E. Coleman.
    “Small-animal PET: advent of a new era of PET research.” J Nucl Med 40,
    no. 7 (July 1999): 1176–79.

## News from Duke BME

April 14, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Integrated Design Challenge Restores Balance to the Force

March 28, 2023 | **_Duke Institute for Brain Sciences_**

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 20, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

View all news

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

