Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Michael Rod Zalutsky

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Jonathan Spicehandler, M.D. Distinguished Professor of Neuro Oncology, in the
School of Medicine

The overall objective of our laboratory is the development of novel
radioactive compounds for improving the diagnosis and treatment of cancer.
This work primarily involves radiohalo-genation of biomolecules via site-
specific approaches, generally via demetallation reactions. Radionuclides
utilized for imaging include I-123, I-124 and F-18, the later two being of
particular interest because they can be used for the quantification of
biochemical and physiological processes in the living human through positron
emission tomography. For therapy, astatine-211 decays by the emission of
alpha-particles, a type of radiation considerably more cytotoxic that the
beta-particles used in conventional endoradiotherapy. The range of At-211
alpha particles is only a few cell diameters, offering the possibility of
extremely focal irradiation of malignant cells while leaving neighboring cells
intact. Highlights of recent work include: a)  
development of reagents for protein and peptide radioiodination that decrease
deiodination in vivo by up to 100-fold, b) demonstration that At-211 labeled
monoclonal antibodies are effective in the treatment of a rat model of
neoplastic meningitis, c) synthesis of a thymidine analogue labeled with
At-211 and the demonstration that this molecule is taken up in cellular DNA
with highly cytotoxicity even at levels of only one atom bound per cell and d)
development of  
radiohalobenzylguanidines which are specifically cytotoxic for human
neuroblastoma cells.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Jonathan Spicehandler, M.D. Distinguished Professor of Neuro Oncology, in
    the School of Medicine
  * Professor of Radiology
  * Professor of Radiation Oncology
  * Professor in Pathology
  * Member of the Duke Cancer Institute

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 311 Research Drive, 161H Bryan Res Bldg, Durham, NC
    27710
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 684-7708
  * **Email Address:** zalut001@mc.duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Google Scholar

## Education

  * M.A. Washington University in St. Louis, 1972
  * Ph.D. Washington University in St. Louis, 1974

## Courses Taught

  * PATHOL 793: Research Independent Study

## Representative Publications

  * Feng, Yutian, Rebecca Meshaw, Xiao-Guang Zhao, Stephen Jannetti, Ganesan
    Vaidyanathan, and Michael R. Zalutsky. “Effective Treatment of Human
    Breast Carcinoma Xenografts with Single-Dose 211At-Labeled Anti-HER2
    Single-Domain Antibody Fragment.” J Nucl Med 64, no. 1 (January 2023):
    124–30. https://doi.org/10.2967/jnumed.122.264071.
  * Feng, Yutian, Samantha M. Sarrett, Rebecca L. Meshaw, Ganesan
    Vaidyanathan, Mike A. Cornejo, Brian M. Zeglis, and Michael R. Zalutsky.
    “Site-Specific Radiohalogenation of a HER2-Targeted Single-Domain Antibody
    Fragment Using a Novel Residualizing Prosthetic Agent.” J Med Chem 65, no.
    22 (November 24, 2022): 15358–73.
    https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jmedchem.2c01331.
  * Schaal, Jeffrey L., Jayanta Bhattacharyya, Jeremy Brownstein, Kyle C.
    Strickland, Garrett Kelly, Soumen Saha, Joshua Milligan, et al.
    “Brachytherapy via a depot of biopolymer-bound 131I synergizes with
    nanoparticle paclitaxel in therapy-resistant pancreatic tumours.” Nat
    Biomed Eng 6, no. 10 (October 2022): 1148–66.
    https://doi.org/10.1038/s41551-022-00949-4.
  * Zhou, Zhengyuan, Michael R. Zalutsky, and Satish K. Chitneni. “Stapled
    peptides as scaffolds for developing radiotracers for intracellular
    targets: Preliminary evaluation of a radioiodinated MDM2-binding stapled
    peptide in the SJSA-1 osteosarcoma model.” Bioorg Med Chem Lett 66 (June
    15, 2022): 128725. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bmcl.2022.128725.
  * Feng, Yutian, Rebecca Meshaw, Darryl McDougald, Zhengyuan Zhou, Xiao-Guang
    Zhao, Stephen A. Jannetti, Robert E. Reiman, et al. “Evaluation of an
    131I-labeled HER2-specific single domain antibody fragment for the
    radiopharmaceutical therapy of HER2-expressing cancers.” Sci Rep 12, no. 1
    (February 22, 2022): 3020. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-022-07006-9.

## News from Duke BME

April 14, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Integrated Design Challenge Restores Balance to the Force

March 28, 2023 | **_Duke Institute for Brain Sciences_**

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 20, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

View all news

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

