Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Nenad Bursac

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Bursac's research interests include: Stem cell, tissue engineering, and gene
based therapies for heart and muscle regeneration; Cardiac electrophysiology
and arrhythmias; Organ-on-chip and tissue engineering technologies for disease
modeling and therapeutic screening; Small and large animal models of heart and
muscle injury, disease, and regeneration.

The focus of my research is on application of pluripotent stem cells, tissue
engineering, and gene therapy technologies for: 1) basic studies of striated
muscle biology and disease in vitro and 2) regenerative therapies in small and
large animal models in vivo. For in vitro studies, micropatterning of
extracellular matrix proteins or protein hydrogels and 3D cell culture are
used to engineer rodent and human striated muscle tissues that replicate the
structure-function relationships present in healthy and diseased muscles. We
use these models to separate and systematically study the roles of structural
and genetic factors that contribute cardiac and skeletal muscle function and
disease at multiple organizational levels, from single cells to tissues.
Combining cardiac and skeletal muscle cells with primary or iPSC-derived non-
muscle cells (endothelial cells, smooth muscle cells, immune system cells,
neurons) allows us to generate more realistic models of healthy and diseased
human tissues and utilize them to mechanistically study molecular and cellular
processes of tissue injury, vascularization, innervation, electromechanical
integration, fibrosis, and functional repair. Currently, in vitro models of
Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy, Pompe disease, dyspherlinopathies, and various
cardiomyopathies are studied in the lab. For in vivo studies, we employ rodent
models of volumetric skeletal muscle loss, cardiotoxin and BaCl2 injury as
well as myocardial infarction and transverse aortic constriction to study how
cell, tissue engineering, and gene (viral) therapies can lead to safe and
efficient tissue repair and regeneration. In large animal (porcine) models of
myocardial injury and arrhythmias, we are exploring how human iPSC derived
heart tissue patches and application of engineered ion channels can improve
cardiac function and prevent heart failure or sudden cardiac death.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor of Biomedical Engineering
  * Associate Professor in Medicine
  * Professor in Cell Biology
  * Member of the Duke Cancer Institute
  * Co-Director of the Duke Regeneration Center

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** CIEMAS 1141, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5510
  * **Websites:**
    * Google Scholar
    * http://bursaclab.bme.duke.edu/

## Education

  * B.S.E. University of Belgrade (Serbia), 1994
  * Ph.D. Boston University, 2000

## Research Interests

Embryonic and adult stem cell therapies for heart and muscle disease; cardiac
and skeletal muscle tissue engineering; cardiac electrophysiology and
arrhythmias; genetic modifications of stem and somatic cells; micropatterning
of proteins and hydrogels.

## Courses Taught

  * BIOLOGY 493: Research Independent Study
  * BME 301L: Bioelectricity (AC or GE)
  * BME 394: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 493: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 494: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 507: Cardiovascular System Engineering, Disease and Therapy (GE, BB,
    EL)
  * BME 578: Quantitative Cell and Tissue Engineering (GE, BB, MC)
  * BME 791: Graduate Independent Study
  * CELLBIO 493: Research Independent Study
  * EGR 393: Research Projects in Engineering
  * NEUROSCI 301L: Bioelectricity (AC or GE)

## In the News

  * Gene Therapy for Heart Attacks in Mice Just Got More Precise (Dec 13,
    2022)
  * Mending a Broken Heart (Feb 11, 2022)
  * Tweaked Genes Borrowed From Bacteria Excite Heart Cells in Live Mice (Feb
    3, 20…
  * Exercising Muscle Combats Chronic Inflammation On Its Own (Jan 25, 2021 |
    Pratt…
  * No Ordinary Gel: New Tools to Help the Body Repair Brain and Muscle Tissue
    (Nov…
  * Immune Cells Help Older Muscles Heal Like New (Oct 1, 2018 | Pratt School
    of En…
  * Building a Better Brain (Aug 6, 2018 | Duke Medicine Alumni Magazine)
  * Inner Workings: The race to patch the human heart (Jun 27, 2018)
  * Engineers Grow Functioning Human Muscle from Skin Cells (Jan 9, 2018 |
    Pratt Sc…
  * Beating Heart Patch is Large Enough to Repair the Human Heart (Nov 28,
    2017 | P…
  * Beating Heart Patch is Large Enough to Repair the Human Heart (Nov 28,
    2017 | P…
  * Bacterial Genes Boost Current in Human Cells (Oct 18, 2016)
  * Bacterial Genes Boost Current in Human Cells (Oct 18, 2016 | Pratt School
    of En…
  * Tissue-Patching a Broken Heart (Oct 6, 2016)
  * Tissue-Patching a Broken Heart (Oct 6, 2016 | Pratt School of Engineering)
  * Nerd Watch video: Duke researchers work to grow custom muscles (Mar 24,
    2015 | …
  * First Contracting Human Muscle Grown in Lab (Jan 13, 2015)
  * First Contracting Human Muscle Grown in Laboratory (Jan 13, 2015 | Pratt
    School…
  * Self-healing muscles (May 23, 2014 | UNC-TV’s "North Carolina Now")
  * Scientists progress in quest to grow muscle tissue (Apr 8, 2014 | The Wall
    Stre…
  * Scientists create the first lab-grown muscle that's 'as strong as the real
    thin…
  * Self-Healing Engineered Muscle Grown in the Laboratory (Apr 1, 2014)
  * Scientists grow muscles in the lab that can heal themselves (Apr 1, 2014 |
    NBC …
  * Self-healing muscle grown in the lab (Apr 1, 2014 | BBC News)
  * Self-Healing Engineered Muscle Grown in the Laboratory (Mar 31, 2014 |
    Pratt Sc…

## Representative Publications

  * Yan, Ruorong, Valentina Cigliola, Kelsey A. Oonk, Zachary Petrover, Sophia
    DeLuca, David W. Wolfson, Andrew Vekstein, et al. “An enhancer-based gene-
    therapy strategy for spatiotemporal control of cargoes during tissue
    repair.” Cell Stem Cell 30, no. 1 (January 5, 2023): 96-111.e6.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.stem.2022.11.012.
  * Lee, David E., Lauren K. McKay, Akshay Bareja, Yongwu Li, Alastair
    Khodabukus, Nenad Bursac, Gregory A. Taylor, Gurpreet S. Baht, and James
    P. White. “Meteorin-like is an injectable peptide that can enhance
    regeneration in aged muscle through immune-driven fibro/adipogenic
    progenitor signaling.” Nat Commun 13, no. 1 (December 9, 2022): 7613.
    https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-022-35390-3.
  * Scherba, Jacob C., Ravi Karra, Joseph W. Turek, and Nenad Bursac. “Toward
    improved understanding of cardiac development and congenital heart
    disease: The advent of cardiac organoids.” J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 164,
    no. 6 (December 2022): 2013–18.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jtcvs.2022.02.028.
  * Khodabukus, Alastair, Tyler Guyer, Axel C. Moore, Molly M. Stevens, Robert
    E. Guldberg, and Nenad Bursac. “Translating musculoskeletal bioengineering
    into tissue regeneration therapies.” Science Translational Medicine 14,
    no. 666 (October 2022): eabn9074.
    https://doi.org/10.1126/scitranslmed.abn9074.
  * Scherba, Jacob C., Marc K. Halushka, Nicholas D. Andersen, Joseph J.
    Maleszewski, Andrew P. Landstrom, Nenad Bursac, and Carolyn Glass. “BRG1
    is a biomarker of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in human heart specimens.”
    Sci Rep 12, no. 1 (May 17, 2022): 7996.
    https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-022-11829-x.

## News from Duke BME

April 14, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Integrated Design Challenge Restores Balance to the Force

March 28, 2023 | **_Duke Institute for Brain Sciences_**

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 20, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

View all news

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

