Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Nimmi Ramanujam

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Robert W. Carr, Jr., Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Dr. Ramanujam is the Robert W. Carr Professor of Engineering and Professor of
Cancer Pharmacology and Global Health at Duke University and co-program leader
of the Radiation Oncology and Imaging Program (ROIP) at the Duke Cancer
Institute. She founded the Center for Global Women’s Health Technologies
(GWHT) in 2013 where she empowers trainees to create impactful solutions to
improve the lives of women and girls globally. This center, since inception,
has catalyzed new research activities and the development and
commercialization of several technologies that advance prevention and
treatment of cervical and breast cancer.

Dr. Ramanujam’s work has led to low-cost and efficient health care and home-
based technology innovations that provide surveillance of cancer and its
recurrence. To complement her translational efforts, Dr. Ramanujam’s work
exploits the dynamic changes in tumor metabolism that allow cancers to go
under the radar and recur in a stealth mode when conditions are favorable. She
is also creating a liquid-based ablative therapy with dual roles - (1) to
address the pressing issue of cancer control in environments where access to
surgery is scarce, and (2) enhance tumor kill through a combination of
necrosis and T cell infiltration occurring as a result of tumor antigen
presentation following ablation.

Dr. Ramanujam has built several global initiatives. The most notable is a
consortium to impact cervical cancer prevention in low resource settings. Her
MacArthur Foundation 100&Change proposal, Women-Inspired Strategies for
Health: A Revolution against Cervical Cancer (WISH) was recognized as one of
the Top 100 of the 755 proposals submitted to this $100M grant competition
(Macarthur 100&Change). In addition to her cervical cancer prevention
initiative, she has also created a global women’s education program that
intersects design-thinking, STEM concepts, and the U.N. Sustainable
Development Goals to promote social justice awareness (IGNITE). She has
launched an arts and storytelling initiative to raise awareness of sexual and
reproductive health inequities (The (In) Visible Organ).

She has created two companies Zenalux and Calla Health to commercialize her
technologies.

Calla Health, a GWHT venture, is centered on sustainably improving women's
access to cancer prevention and creating innovations that increase wide scale
surveillance of cervical pre-cancers and cancers. Zenalux Biomedical, in
collaboration with Duke University, is developing a suite of optical
microscopy and spectroscopy tools for preclinical and clinical applications in
cancer research. Zenalux’ newest product offering is the Zenascope™ ZF1, a
combined portable platform for optical imaging and spectroscopy to
characterize the major axes of metabolism along with key vascular features.

Dr. Ramanujam has more than 20 patents to-date and more than 150 publications
for screening, diagnostic, and surgical applications. She has received funding
from a agencies including NIH R01s and R21s, NIH Bioengineering Partnerships,
NCI Academic Industry Partnerships, NIH Small Business grants, DOD, Burroughs
Wellcome Fund, DIHI: Innovation Jam, Prevent Cancer and USAID funding. As the
director of the Center for Global Women’s Health Technologies, she has
developed a network of 50+ partners including international academic
institutions and hospitals, non-governmental organizations, ministries of
health, and commercial partners; this consortium works to ensure the
technologies developed at the center are adopted by cancer control programs in
geographically and economically diverse healthcare settings.

Dr. Ramanujam has received a number of awards including the MIT TR100 Young
Innovator award (MIT), the Global Indus Technovator award (MIT), the Stansell
Family award (Duke), multiple Era of Hope Scholar awards (DoD), the Emerging
Leader in Global Health Award (CUGH), the Social Impact Abie Award
(AnitaB.org), the Biophotonics Technology Innovator Award (SPIE), the Women in
Molecular Imaging Leadership Award (WMIC), the Michael S. Feld Biophotonics
Award (OSA) and the Wom C Global Impact Award (Duke). She is a fellow of
several optical and biomedical engineering societies including OSA, SPIE, and
AIMBE. She is a Fulbright scholar and the 2020 IEEE Distinguished Lecturer.
She is an elected member of the National Academy of Inventors. She has
demonstrated her work’s global impact through presentations at the United
Nations and TEDx events, and a number of national and international plenary
talks. Her work has been featured in a number of venues including Medical
Daily, Wired Magazine, NPR and several podcasts.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Robert W. Carr, Jr., Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering
  * Professor of Biomedical Engineering
  * Director of Center for Global Women's Health Technologies
  * Professor of Pharmacology and Cancer Biology
  * Affiliate of the Duke Initiative for Science & Society
  * Core Faculty Member, Duke-Margolis Center for Health Policy
  * Member of the Duke Cancer Institute

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 367 Gross Hall, 140 Science Drive, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5307
  * **Websites:**
    * Center for Global Women's Health Technologies
    * Google Scholar

## Education

  * B.S. University of Texas, Austin, 1989
  * M.S. University of Texas, Austin, 1992
  * Ph.D. University of Texas, Austin, 1995

## Research Interests

Innovating on optical strategies to peer into the biological landscape of
thick tissues. Technologies being developed in her lab leverage principles of
optical spectroscopy, optical sectioning microscopy, and molecular imaging.
Her research group is developing and applying these optically based tools for
three problems in cancer: cancer screening in resource-limited settings,
intra-operative margin assessment to detect residual disease during cancer
surgery, and visualizing tumor hypoxia and metabolism in the context of cancer
therapy and drug discovery. Prof. Ramanujam is leading a multi-disciplinary
effort to translate these technologies to clinical applications in the breast,
and cervix.

## Courses Taught

  * BME 230L: Global Women's Health Technologies
  * BME 290L: Intermediate Topics with Lab (GE)
  * BME 494: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * EGR 393: Research Projects in Engineering
  * GLHLTH 230L: Global Women's Health Technologies
  * GLHLTH 391: Independent Study in Global Health
  * ISS 397: Bass Connections Information, Society & Culture Research Team
  * ISS 398: Bass Connections Information, Society & Culture Research Team
  * ISS 795: Bass Connections Information, Society & Culture Research Team
  * ISS 796: Bass Connections Information, Society & Culture Research Team
  * PHARM 493: Research Independent Study
  * PHARM 494: Research Independent Study

## In the News

  * Duke Faculty Reexamine Their Roles as Scholars and Mentors in an Uncertain
    Time…
  * Advancing Health Equity: Women’s Health Technologies (May 1, 2020 | Duke
    Mobile…
  * The Human Dimension (Apr 30, 2020 | Diversity In Action Magazine)
  * Necessity Is the Mother of Invention (Apr 10, 2020 | Thrive Global)
  * Research Integrity Interviews Series: “If you treat people with integrity,
    you …
  * UICC and WISH Project in the top 100 proposals selected by the MacArthur
    Founda…
  * A Plan to Close the Cervical Cancer Inequity Gap Scores in Top 100 in
    MacArthur…
  * Women's Health: It's Personal for Nimmi Ramanujam (Jan 28, 2020 | School
    of Med…
  * USAID Announces $15.5 Million in Thirteen New Grants to Programs under the
    Deve…
  * Prevent Cancer Foundation® awards $300,000 in global grants (Dec 1, 2019)
  * How Tech Can Lead to Social Innovation: An Interview With Dr. Nimmi
    Ramanujam (…
  * The Gynecological Exam is Finally Getting a Makeover (Sep 16, 2019 |
    Medium)
  * Meet Dr. Nimmi Ramanujam, Social Impact Abie Award Winner (Aug 27, 2019 |
    Anita…
  * Announcing the 2019 Cisco Global Problem Solver Challenge Winners. (May
    20, 201…
  * Ramanujam Receives Fulbright Global Scholar Award (Apr 22, 2019 | Pratt
    School …
  * A Breakthrough in Cervical Cancer Treatment Inspires a Ruby Art Exhibit
    (Feb 27…
  * Safe, Convenient, Affordable: How a Pocket Device Is Changing Women's
    Health (F…
  * The Road to Biomedical Engineering Went Through Brahms (Oct 9, 2018 | Duke
    Arts)
  * Three Engineers Named to National Academy of Inventors (Dec 13, 2017)
  * Duke Team's Portable Screening Device Takes Aim at Preventable Cervical
    Cancer …
  * Researchers Aim to Make Cervical Cancer Screening Accessible to All (Dec
    19, 20…
  * Showing Washington the Future of Global Women’s Health (Nov 22, 2016 |
    Pratt Sc…
  * New Collaborative Seed Grant Program Gives Eight Awards (Mar 16, 2016)
  * Duke Announces 2015 Distinguished Professors (May 1, 2015)
  * DukeEngage Adds California-Based Programs Targeting Homeless and At-Risk
    Youth …
  * Lab of Entrepreneurial Engineers (Sep 19, 2014)
  * Global Research, Domestic Benefits (Jan 13, 2014)
  * Duke Launches Global Womens Health Technologies Center (Oct 23, 2013)
  * Ramanujam Promoted to SPIE Fellow (Jun 7, 2013)

## Representative Publications

  * Natarajan, J., M. Krieger, N. Ramanujam, S. Vashist, and N. Bhatla.
    “Feasibility and Outcome of Training Field Workers to Use the Transvaginal
    Colposcope for Point of Care Diagnosis and Management of Precancerous
    Cervical Lesions.” Indian Journal of Gynecologic Oncology 21, no. 1 (March
    1, 2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/s40944-022-00681-6.
  * Natarajan, Jayashree, Sandeep Mathur, Sreenivas Vishnubhatla, Sunesh
    Kumar, Shachi Vashist, Nimmi Ramanujam, Seema Singhal, Jyoti Meena, Pranay
    Tanwar, and Neerja Bhatla. “Can portable Colposcopes Replace Standard-of-
    care Colposcopes? A Crossover Trial of Two Portable Colposcopes with a
    Standard-of-Care Video Colposcope.” Asian Pacific Journal of Cancer
    Prevention : Apjcp 23, no. 12 (December 2022): 4013–21.
    https://doi.org/10.31557/apjcp.2022.23.12.4013.
  * Coole, Jackson B., David Brenes, Júlio César Possati-Resende, Márcio
    Antoniazzi, Bruno de Oliveira Fonseca, Yajur Maker, Alex Kortum, et al.
    “Development of a multimodal mobile colposcope for real-time cervical
    cancer detection.” Biomedical Optics Express 13, no. 10 (October 2022):
    5116–30. https://doi.org/10.1364/boe.463253.
  * Ramanujam, N., and M. Madonna. “Editorial overview: Biomedical engineering
    and women's health: Breaking new ground in gender- and sex-specific
    research.” Current Opinion in Biomedical Engineering 22 (June 1, 2022).
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cobme.2022.100392.
  * Deutsch, Riley J., Victoria W. D’Agostino, Enakshi D. Sunassee, Michelle
    Kwan, Megan C. Madonna, Gregory Palmer, Brian T. Crouch, and Nimmi
    Ramanujam. “A Spectroscopic Technique to Simultaneously Characterize Fatty
    Acid Uptake, Mitochondrial Activity, Vascularity, and Oxygen Saturation
    for Longitudinal Studies In Vivo.” Metabolites 12, no. 5 (April 19, 2022).
    https://doi.org/10.3390/metabo12050369.

## News from Duke BME

April 14, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Integrated Design Challenge Restores Balance to the Force

March 28, 2023 | **_Duke Institute for Brain Sciences_**

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 20, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

View all news

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

