Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Patrick D. Wolf

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering

My research is primarily in the area of advanced instrumentation for diagnosis
and treatment of electrophysiological problems. This research covers two
primary organ systems: the heart and the brain.

One thrust of the cardiac-based work is centered on atrial fibrillation and in
particular on very low energy atrial defibrillation strategies. The goal is to
produce a device that can defibrillate the atria with a painless series of
electrical impulses. A second area of interest is the study of the biophysics
of radio frequency ablation of the heart. A third avenue of research in the
cardiac area is the development of new instruments and techniques for tracking
interventional devices within the body without the use of ionizing radiation.
These devices primarily rely on ultrasound technology. There is a strong
collaborative effort in this area with the Duke Ultrasound group in the
Department of Biomedical Engineering. The long term goal of this work is to
develop technology to deliver image-guided therapy to target tissues in the
heart and other organs.

In neuroengineering, we are currently developing a "brainchip" that would
telemeter information recorded directly from neurons in the brain to a remote
device. This IC based technology is being developed for application in neuro-
prosthetic or brain controlled devices. There is a close collaboration on this
project between our lab and the laboratory of Dr. Miguel Nicolelis the
Department of Neurobiology. We are also developing advanced neural recoding
systems to use on unrestrained, untethered animals as they learn to perform
certain tasks.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** Rm. 276, Hudson Annex, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5114
  * **Email Address:** patrick.wolf@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Wolf Lab Website

## Education

  * Ph.D. Duke University, 1992

## Research Interests

Advanced instrumentation for diagnosis and treatment of electrophysiological
problems. This research covers two primary organ systems: the heart and the
brain. In the heart, Dr. Wolf is developing an image guided ablation system
for treatment of arrhythmias. In the brain, he is developing a fully
implantable Brain-Machine interface.

## Courses Taught

  * BME 354L: Introduction to Medical Instrumentation
  * BME 464L: Medical Instrument Design (DR)
  * BME 506: Measurement and Control of Cardiac Electrical Events (GE, EL, IM)

## Representative Publications

  * Kim, Young-Joong, and Patrick D. Wolf. “3-D Ultrasound Imaging Using
    Helicoid Array Transducers.” Ieee Transactions on Ultrasonics,
    Ferroelectrics, and Frequency Control 68, no. 3 (March 2021): 697–706.
    https://doi.org/10.1109/tuffc.2020.3022616.
  * Vejdani-Jahromi, Maryam, Jenna Freedman, Gregg E. Trahey, and Patrick D.
    Wolf. “Measuring Intraventricular Pressure Using Ultrasound Elastography.”
    Journal of Ultrasound in Medicine : Official Journal of the American
    Institute of Ultrasound in Medicine 38, no. 5 (May 2019): 1167–77.
    https://doi.org/10.1002/jum.14795.
  * Vejdani-Jahromi, Maryam, Jenna Freedman, Young-Joong Kim, Gregg E. Trahey,
    and Patrick D. Wolf. “Assessment of Diastolic Function Using Ultrasound
    Elastography.” Ultrasound in Medicine & Biology 44, no. 3 (March 2018):
    551–61. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2017.11.011.
  * Hollender, Peter, Lily Kuo, Virginia Chen, Stephanie Eyerly, Patrick Wolf,
    and Gregg Trahey. “Scanned 3-D Intracardiac ARFI and SWEI for Imaging
    Radio-Frequency Ablation Lesions.” Ieee Transactions on Ultrasonics,
    Ferroelectrics, and Frequency Control 64, no. 7 (July 2017): 1034–44.
    https://doi.org/10.1109/tuffc.2017.2692558.
  * Vejdani-Jahromi, Maryam, Jenna Freedman, Matthew Nagle, Young-Joong Kim,
    Gregg E. Trahey, and Patrick D. Wolf. “Quantifying Myocardial
    Contractility Changes Using Ultrasound-Based Shear Wave Elastography.”
    Journal of the American Society of Echocardiography : Official Publication
    of the American Society of Echocardiography 30, no. 1 (January 2017):
    90–96. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.echo.2016.10.004.

## News from Duke BME

April 14, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Integrated Design Challenge Restores Balance to the Force

March 28, 2023 | **_Duke Institute for Brain Sciences_**

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 20, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

View all news

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

