Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Peter Edward Fecci

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Professor of Neurosurgery

As the Director of both the Brain Tumor Immunotherapy Program and the Center
for Brain and Spine Metastasis at Duke University, I focus our programmatic
interests on the design, optimization, and monitoring of immune-based
treatment platforms for patients with intracranial tumors, whether primary or
metastatic. Within this broad scope, however, my own group looks more
specifically at limitations to immunotherapeutic success, with a particular
focus on understanding and reversing T cell dysfunction in patients with
glioblastoma (GBM) and brain metastases. We employ a systematic approach to
categorizing T cell dysfunction (Woroniecka et al, Clin Cancer Res 2018 Aug
15;24(16):3792-3802), and whereas our earlier work addressed concerns for
regulatory T cell-induced tolerance, we now heavily study T cell ignorance and
exhaustion, as well. Regarding the former, we recently published the novel
phenomenon of S1P1-mediated bone marrow T cell sequestration in patients with
intracranial tumors (Chongsathidkiet et al, Nat Medicine 2018
Sep;24(9):1459-1468). Regarding the latter, we have likewise recently
identified and characterized exhaustion as a significant limitation to T-cell
function within GBM (Woroniecka et al, Clin Cancer Res 2018 Sep
1;24(17):4175-4186). I very much look to collaboratively integrate our
approaches with others investigating innovative treatment options. I continue
my focus on combining strategies for reversing T cell deficits with current
and novel immune-based platforms as a means of deriving and improving rational
and precise anti-tumor therapies. It is my sincerest desire to forge a career
focused on co-operative, multi-disciplinary, organized brain tumor therapy.
Ultimately, my goal is to help coordinate the efforts of a streamlined and
effective center for brain tumor research and clinical care. I hope to play
some role in ushering in a period where the science and treatment arms of
brain tumor therapy suffer no disjoint, but instead represent the convergent
efforts of researchers, neuro-oncologists, medical oncologists, radiation
oncologists, biomedical engineers, and neurosurgeons alike. I hope to see such
synergy become standard of care.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor of Neurosurgery
  * Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering
  * Associate Professor in Immunology
  * Professor in Pathology
  * Member of the Duke Cancer Institute

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 201 Sands Bldg., Box 3050, Durham, NC 27710
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 681-1010
  * **Email Address:** peter.fecci@duke.edu

## Education

  * M.D. Duke University School of Medicine, 2007
  * Ph.D. Duke University, 2007
  * Massachusetts General Hospital, 2008
  * Massachusetts General Hospital, 2013
  * Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, 2012

## Research Interests

Brain Tumor Immunotherapy  
Cancer-Induced Immune Dysfunction  
Glioblastoma  
Brain Metastasis

## Courses Taught

  * MOLMED 301B: Research in MOLMED - Oncological Sciences
  * NEUROSCI 493: Research Independent Study 1
  * NEUROSCI 494: Research Independent Study 2
  * PATHOL 293: Research Independent Study
  * PATHOL 793: Research Independent Study

## In the News

  * When Cancer Spreads to the Brain and Spine (Aug 29, 2022 | School of
    Medicine)
  * Searching for A Higher Gear in the Fight Against Brain Cancer (Dec 2, 2021
    | Th…
  * Cohen-Wolkowiez, Fecci, and Herman Elected Members of American Society for
    Clin…
  * A Duke Team Just Found Missing Immune Cells That Could Fight Lethal Brain
    Tumor…
  * Duke neurosurgeon: Many factors in McCain's favor as he undergoes cancer
    treatm…

## Representative Publications

  * Shen, Steven H., Karolina Woroniecka, Andrew B. Barbour, Peter E. Fecci,
    Luis Sanchez-Perez, and John H. Sampson. “CAR T cells and checkpoint
    inhibition for the treatment of glioblastoma.” Expert Opin Biol Ther 20,
    no. 6 (June 2020): 579–91. https://doi.org/10.1080/14712598.2020.1727436.
  * Moravan, Michael J., Peter E. Fecci, Carey K. Anders, Jeffrey M. Clarke,
    April K. S. Salama, Justus D. Adamson, Scott R. Floyd, et al. “Current
    multidisciplinary management of brain metastases.” Cancer 126, no. 7
    (April 1, 2020): 1390–1406. https://doi.org/10.1002/cncr.32714.
  * Kemeny, Hanna R., Aladine A. Elsamadicy, S Harrison Farber, Cosette D.
    Champion, Selena J. Lorrey, Pakawat Chongsathidkiet, Karolina I.
    Woroniecka, et al. “Targeting PD-L1 Initiates Effective Antitumor Immunity
    in a Murine Model of Cushing Disease.” Clin Cancer Res 26, no. 5 (March 1,
    2020): 1141–51. https://doi.org/10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-18-3486.
  * Huang, Min-Nung, Lowell T. Nicholson, Kristen A. Batich, Adam M. Swartz,
    David Kopin, Sebastian Wellford, Vijay K. Prabhakar, et al. “Antigen-
    loaded monocyte administration induces potent therapeutic antitumor T cell
    responses.” J Clin Invest 130, no. 2 (February 3, 2020): 774–88.
    https://doi.org/10.1172/JCI128267.
  * Kirkpatrick, John P., and Peter E. Fecci. “Offer Hypofractionated SRS… If
    Her Performance Status Is Good.” Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 105, no. 5
    (December 1, 2019): 940–41. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijrobp.2018.07.001.
  * Mohammadi, Alireza M., Mayur Sharma, Thomas L. Beaumont, Kevin O. Juarez,
    Hanna Kemeny, Cosette Dechant, Andreas Seas, et al. “Upfront Magnetic
    Resonance Imaging-Guided Stereotactic Laser-Ablation in Newly Diagnosed
    Glioblastoma: A Multicenter Review of Survival Outcomes Compared to a
    Matched Cohort of Biopsy-Only Patients.” Neurosurgery 85, no. 6 (December
    1, 2019): 762–72. https://doi.org/10.1093/neuros/nyy449.
  * Fecci, Peter E., Cosette D. Champion, Jacob Hoj, Courtney M. McKernan, C
    Rory Goodwin, John P. Kirkpatrick, Carey K. Anders, Ann Marie Pendergast,
    and John H. Sampson. “The Evolving Modern Management of Brain Metastasis.”
    Clin Cancer Res 25, no. 22 (November 15, 2019): 6570–80.
    https://doi.org/10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-18-1624.
  * Sankey, Eric W., Vadim Tsvankin, Matthew M. Grabowski, Gautam Nayar,
    Kristen A. Batich, Aida Risman, Cosette D. Champion, April K. S. Salama, C
    Rory Goodwin, and Peter E. Fecci. “Operative and peri-operative
    considerations in the management of brain metastasis.” Cancer Med 8, no.
    16 (November 2019): 6809–31. https://doi.org/10.1002/cam4.2577.
  * Liu, Yang, Pakawat Chongsathidkiet, Bridget M. Crawford, Ren Odion,
    Cosette A. Dechant, Hanna R. Kemeny, Xiuyu Cui, et al. “Plasmonic gold
    nanostar-mediated photothermal immunotherapy for brain tumor ablation and
    immunologic memory.” Immunotherapy 11, no. 15 (October 2019): 1293–1302.
    https://doi.org/10.2217/imt-2019-0023.
  * Fecci, Peter E., and John H. Sampson. “The current state of immunotherapy
    for gliomas: an eye toward the future.” J Neurosurg 131, no. 3 (September
    1, 2019): 657–66. https://doi.org/10.3171/2019.5.JNS181762.
  * Lorrey, Selena J., Luis Sanchez-Perez, and Peter E. Fecci. “Rescuing
    imperfect antigens for immuno-oncology.” Nat Biotechnol 37, no. 9
    (September 2019): 1002–3. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41587-019-0248-2.
  * Choi, Kevin J., Feras Y. Ackall, Tracy Truong, Tracy Z. Cheng, Maragatha
    Kuchibhatla, Ali R. Zomorodi, Patrick J. Codd, Peter E. Fecci, Ralph Abi
    Hachem, and David W. Jang. “Sinonasal Quality of Life Outcomes After
    Extended Endonasal Approaches to the Skull Base.” J Neurol Surg B Skull
    Base 80, no. 4 (August 2019): 416–23.
    https://doi.org/10.1055/s-0038-1675592.
  * Chongsathidkiet, Pakawat, Christina Jackson, Shohei Koyama, Franziska
    Loebel, Xiuyu Cui, S Harrison Farber, Karolina Woroniecka, et al. “Author
    Correction: Sequestration of T cells in bone marrow in the setting of
    glioblastoma and other intracranial tumors.” Nat Med 25, no. 3 (March
    2019): 529. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41591-019-0355-0.
  * Suryadevara, Carter M., Rupen Desai, S Harrison Farber, Bryan D. Choi,
    Adam M. Swartz, Steven H. Shen, Patrick C. Gedeon, et al. “Preventing Lck
    Activation in CAR T Cells Confers Treg Resistance but Requires 4-1BB
    Signaling for Them to Persist and Treat Solid Tumors in Nonlymphodepleted
    Hosts.” Clin Cancer Res 25, no. 1 (January 1, 2019): 358–68.
    https://doi.org/10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-18-1211.
  * Natarajan, Brahma D., Christel N. Rushing, Michael A. Cummings, Jessica Ms
    Jutzy, Kingshuk R. Choudhury, Michael J. Moravan, Peter E. Fecci, et al.
    “Predicting intracranial progression following stereotactic radiosurgery
    for brain metastases: Implications for post SRS imaging.” J Radiosurg Sbrt
    6, no. 3 (2019): 179–87.
  * Woroniecka, Karolina, and Peter E. Fecci. “T-cell exhaustion in
    glioblastoma.” Oncotarget 9, no. 82 (October 19, 2018): 35287–88.
    https://doi.org/10.18632/oncotarget.26228.
  * Atik, Ahmet F., Carter M. Suryadevara, Ryan M. Schweller, Jennifer L.
    West, Patrick Healy, James E. Herndon Ii, Kendra L. Congdon, et al.
    “Hyaluronic acid based low viscosity hydrogel as a novel carrier for
    Convection Enhanced Delivery of CAR T cells.” J Clin Neurosci 56 (October
    2018): 163–68. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jocn.2018.06.005.
  * Woroniecka, Karolina, Pakawat Chongsathidkiet, Kristen Rhodin, Hanna
    Kemeny, Cosette Dechant, S Harrison Farber, Aladine A. Elsamadicy, et al.
    “T-Cell Exhaustion Signatures Vary with Tumor Type and Are Severe in
    Glioblastoma.” Clin Cancer Res 24, no. 17 (September 1, 2018): 4175–86.
    https://doi.org/10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-17-1846.
  * Chongsathidkiet, Pakawat, Christina Jackson, Shohei Koyama, Franziska
    Loebel, Xiuyu Cui, S Harrison Farber, Karolina Woroniecka, et al.
    “Sequestration of T cells in bone marrow in the setting of glioblastoma
    and other intracranial tumors.” Nat Med 24, no. 9 (September 2018):
    1459–68. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41591-018-0135-2.
  * Woroniecka, Karolina I., Kristen E. Rhodin, Pakawat Chongsathidkiet,
    Kristin A. Keith, and Peter E. Fecci. “T-cell Dysfunction in Glioblastoma:
    Applying a New Framework.” Clin Cancer Res 24, no. 16 (August 15, 2018):
    3792–3802. https://doi.org/10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-18-0047.
  * Rennert, Robert C., Usman Khan, Stephen B. Tatter, Melvin Field, Brian
    Toyota, Peter E. Fecci, Kevin Judy, et al. “Patterns of Clinical Use of
    Stereotactic Laser Ablation: Analysis of a Multicenter Prospective
    Registry.” World Neurosurg 116 (August 2018): e566–70.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.wneu.2018.05.039.
  * Giles, Amber J., Marsha-Kay N. D. Hutchinson, Heather M. Sonnemann, Jinkyu
    Jung, Peter E. Fecci, Nivedita M. Ratnam, Wei Zhang, et al.
    “Dexamethasone-induced immunosuppression: mechanisms and implications for
    immunotherapy.” J Immunother Cancer 6, no. 1 (June 11, 2018): 51.
    https://doi.org/10.1186/s40425-018-0371-5.
  * Oldham, Mark, Suk W. Yoon, Justus Adamson, Xiaofeng Zhang, Peter Fecci,
    and Mark Dewhirst. “In Reply to Pratx and Kapp.” Int J Radiat Oncol Biol
    Phys 101, no. 2 (June 1, 2018): 495–96.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijrobp.2018.02.018.
  * Reap, Elizabeth A., Carter M. Suryadevara, Kristen A. Batich, Luis
    Sanchez-Perez, Gary E. Archer, Robert J. Schmittling, Pamela K. Norberg,
    et al. “Dendritic Cells Enhance Polyfunctionality of Adoptively
    Transferred T Cells That Target Cytomegalovirus in Glioblastoma.” Cancer
    Res 78, no. 1 (January 1, 2018): 256–64.
    https://doi.org/10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-17-0469.
  * Woroniecka, Karolina, Pakawat Chongsathidkiet, Aladine Elsamadicy,
    Harrison Farber, Xiuyu Cui, and Peter E. Fecci. “Flow Cytometric
    Identification of Tumor-Infiltrating Lymphocytes from Glioblastoma.”
    Methods Mol Biol 1741 (2018): 221–26.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4939-7659-1_18.
  * Suryadevara, Carter M., Rupen Desai, Melissa L. Abel, Katherine A.
    Riccione, Kristen A. Batich, Steven H. Shen, Pakawat Chongsathidkiet, et
    al. “Temozolomide lymphodepletion enhances CAR abundance and correlates
    with antitumor efficacy against established glioblastoma.” Oncoimmunology
    7, no. 6 (2018): e1434464. https://doi.org/10.1080/2162402X.2018.1434464.
  * Babi, Marc-Alain, Peter Fecci, Matthew Luedke, Olinda Pineda, and Yasmin
    Ali O’Keefe. “Atypical teratoid rhabdoid tumor in a 65-year-old man
    presenting with disseminated leptomeningeal disease: A case report and
    review of the literature.” Sage Open Med Case Rep 6 (2018):
    2050313X18775298. https://doi.org/10.1177/2050313X18775298.
  * Riccione, Katherine A., Li-Zhen He, Peter E. Fecci, Pamela K. Norberg,
    Carter M. Suryadevara, Adam Swartz, Patrick Healy, et al. “CD27
    stimulation unveils the efficacy of linked class I/II peptide vaccines in
    poorly immunogenic tumors by orchestrating a coordinated CD4/CD8 T cell
    response.” Oncoimmunology 7, no. 12 (2018): e1502904.
    https://doi.org/10.1080/2162402X.2018.1502904.
  * Narloch, Jessica L., S Harrison Farber, Sarah Sammons, Frances McSherry,
    James E. Herndon, Jenny K. Hoang, Fang-Fang Yin, et al. “Biopsy of
    enlarging lesions after stereotactic radiosurgery for brain metastases
    frequently reveals radiation necrosis.” Neuro Oncol 19, no. 10 (October 1,
    2017): 1391–97. https://doi.org/10.1093/neuonc/nox090.
  * Nayar, Gautam, Tiffany Ejikeme, Pakawat Chongsathidkiet, Aladine A.
    Elsamadicy, Kimberly L. Blackwell, Jeffrey M. Clarke, Shivanand P. Lad,
    and Peter E. Fecci. “Leptomeningeal disease: current diagnostic and
    therapeutic strategies.” Oncotarget 8, no. 42 (September 22, 2017):
    73312–28. https://doi.org/10.18632/oncotarget.20272.
  * Elsamadicy, Aladine A., Pakawat Chongsathidkiet, Rupen Desai, Karolina
    Woroniecka, S Harrison Farber, Peter E. Fecci, and John H. Sampson.
    “Prospect of rindopepimut in the treatment of glioblastoma.” Expert Opin
    Biol Ther 17, no. 4 (April 2017): 507–13.
    https://doi.org/10.1080/14712598.2017.1299705.
  * Farber, S Harrison, Aladine A. Elsamadicy, Ahmet Fatih Atik, Carter M.
    Suryadevara, Pakawat Chongsathidkiet, Peter E. Fecci, and John H. Sampson.
    “The Safety of available immunotherapy for the treatment of glioblastoma.”
    Expert Opin Drug Saf 16, no. 3 (March 2017): 277–87.
    https://doi.org/10.1080/14740338.2017.1273898.
  * Mei, Yu, Wenya Linda Bi, Noah F. Greenwald, Ziming Du, Nathalie Y. R.
    Agar, Ursula B. Kaiser, Whitney W. Woodmansee, et al. “Increased
    expression of programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) in human pituitary
    tumors.” Oncotarget 7, no. 47 (November 22, 2016): 76565–76.
    https://doi.org/10.18632/oncotarget.12088.
  * Limon, D., G. J. Kim, F. McSherry, J. Herndon, P. E. Fecci, J. Adamson, J.
    H. Sampson, et al. “Single-Fraction Radiosurgery for 4 or More Brain
    Metastases.” Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 96, no. 2S (October 1, 2016):
    E84–85. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijrobp.2016.06.804.
  * Suryadevara, C. M., R. Desai, S. H. Farber, P. C. Gedeon, A. Swartz, D.
    Snyder, J. Herndon, et al. “369 Chimeric Antigen Receptors Deficient in
    Lck Signaling Require 4-1BB Costimulation to Expand in Vivo, Resist
    Regulatory T-Cell Suppression, and Treat Solid Tumors in Immune-Intact
    Hosts.” Neurosurgery 63, no. CN_suppl_1 (August 1, 2016): 209–10.
    https://doi.org/10.1227/01.neu.0000489857.70440.98.
  * Suryadevara, Carter M., Rupen Desai, Samuel Harrison Farber, Patrick C.
    Gedeon, Adam Swartz, David Snyder, James Herndon, et al. “369 Chimeric
    Antigen Receptors Deficient in Lck Signaling Require 4-1BB Costimulation
    to Expand in Vivo, Resist Regulatory T-Cell Suppression, and Treat Solid
    Tumors in Immune-Intact Hosts.” Neurosurgery 63 Suppl 1 (August 2016):
    209–10. https://doi.org/10.1227/01.neu.0000489857.70440.98.
  * Farber, S Harrison, Vadim Tsvankin, Jessica L. Narloch, Grace J. Kim,
    April K. S. Salama, Gordana Vlahovic, Kimberly L. Blackwell, John P.
    Kirkpatrick, and Peter E. Fecci. “Embracing rejection: Immunologic trends
    in brain metastasis.” Oncoimmunology 5, no. 7 (July 2016): e1172153.
    https://doi.org/10.1080/2162402X.2016.1172153.
  * Koyama, Shohei, Esra A. Akbay, Yvonne Y. Li, Amir R. Aref, Ferdinandos
    Skoulidis, Grit S. Herter-Sprie, Kevin A. Buczkowski, et al. “STK11/LKB1
    Deficiency Promotes Neutrophil Recruitment and Proinflammatory Cytokine
    Production to Suppress T-cell Activity in the Lung Tumor
    Microenvironment.” Cancer Res 76, no. 5 (March 1, 2016): 999–1008.
    https://doi.org/10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-15-1439.
  * Koyama, Shohei, Esra A. Akbay, Yvonne Y. Li, Grit S. Herter-Sprie, Kevin
    A. Buczkowski, William G. Richards, Leena Gandhi, et al. “Adaptive
    resistance to therapeutic PD-1 blockade is associated with upregulation of
    alternative immune checkpoints.” Nat Commun 7 (February 17, 2016): 10501.
    https://doi.org/10.1038/ncomms10501.
  * Choi, Bryan D., Peter E. Fecci, and John H. Sampson. “Editorial: Not
    everything that matters can be measured and not everything that can be
    measured matters.” J Neurosurg 123, no. 3 (September 2015): 543–44.
    https://doi.org/10.3171/2015.2.JNS142977.
  * Vlahovic, Gordana, Peter E. Fecci, David Reardon, and John H. Sampson.
    “Programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) as an immunotherapy target in patients
    with glioblastoma.” Neuro Oncol 17, no. 8 (August 2015): 1043–45.
    https://doi.org/10.1093/neuonc/nov071.
  * Swartz, Adam M., Kristen A. Batich, Peter E. Fecci, and John H. Sampson.
    “Peptide vaccines for the treatment of glioblastoma.” J Neurooncol 123,
    no. 3 (July 2015): 433–40. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11060-014-1676-y.
  * Fecci, Peter E., Ranjith Babu, D Cory Adamson, and John H. Sampson.
    “Editorial: Turning fluorescence into black and white.” J Neurosurg 122,
    no. 6 (June 2015): 1356–58. https://doi.org/10.3171/2014.10.JNS141788.
  * Suryadevara, Carter M., Patrick C. Gedeon, Luis Sanchez-Perez, Terence
    Verla, Christopher Alvarez-Breckenridge, Bryan D. Choi, Peter E. Fecci,
    and John H. Sampson. “Are BiTEs the "missing link" in cancer therapy?”
    Oncoimmunology 4, no. 6 (June 2015): e1008339.
    https://doi.org/10.1080/2162402X.2015.1008339.
  * Suryadevara, Carter M., Terence Verla, Luis Sanchez-Perez, Elizabeth A.
    Reap, Bryan D. Choi, Peter E. Fecci, and John H. Sampson. “Immunotherapy
    for malignant glioma.” Surg Neurol Int 6, no. Suppl 1 (2015): S68–77.
    https://doi.org/10.4103/2152-7806.151341.
  * Fecci, Peter E., Amy B. Heimberger, and John H. Sampson. “Immunotherapy
    for primary brain tumors: no longer a matter of privilege.” Clin Cancer
    Res 20, no. 22 (November 15, 2014): 5620–29.
    https://doi.org/10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-14-0832.
  * Yanamadala, Vijay, Brian P. Walcott, Peter E. Fecci, Peter Rozman, Jay I.
    Kumar, Brian V. Nahed, and Brooke Swearingen. “Reversal of warfarin
    associated coagulopathy with 4-factor prothrombin complex concentrate in
    traumatic brain injury and intracranial hemorrhage.” J Clin Neurosci 21,
    no. 11 (November 2014): 1881–84.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jocn.2014.05.001.
  * Gedeon, Patrick C., Katherine A. Riccione, Peter E. Fecci, and John H.
    Sampson. “Antibody-based immunotherapy for malignant glioma.” Semin Oncol
    41, no. 4 (August 2014): 496–510.
    https://doi.org/10.1053/j.seminoncol.2014.06.004.
  * Cheema, Tooba A., Peter E. Fecci, Jianfang Ning, and Samuel D. Rabkin.
    “Immunovirotherapy for the treatment of glioblastoma.” Oncoimmunology 3,
    no. 1 (January 1, 2014): e27218. https://doi.org/10.4161/onci.27218.
  * Akbay, Esra A., Shohei Koyama, Julian Carretero, Abigail Altabef, Jeremy
    H. Tchaicha, Camilla L. Christensen, Oliver R. Mikse, et al. “Activation
    of the PD-1 pathway contributes to immune escape in EGFR-driven lung
    tumors.” Cancer Discov 3, no. 12 (December 2013): 1355–63.
    https://doi.org/10.1158/2159-8290.CD-13-0310.
  * Cheema, Tooba A., Hiroaki Wakimoto, Peter E. Fecci, Jianfang Ning,
    Toshihiko Kuroda, Deva S. Jeyaretna, Robert L. Martuza, and Samuel D.
    Rabkin. “Multifaceted oncolytic virus therapy for glioblastoma in an
    immunocompetent cancer stem cell model.” Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 110, no.
    29 (July 16, 2013): 12006–11. https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1307935110.
  * Reardon, David A., Kai W. Wucherpfennig, Gordon Freeman, Catherine J. Wu,
    E Antonio Chiocca, Patrick Y. Wen, William T. Curry, et al. “An update on
    vaccine therapy and other immunotherapeutic approaches for glioblastoma.”
    Expert Rev Vaccines 12, no. 6 (June 2013): 597–615.
    https://doi.org/10.1586/erv.13.41.
  * Choi, Bryan D., Peter E. Fecci, and John H. Sampson. “Regulatory T cells
    move in when gliomas say "I Do".” Clin Cancer Res 18, no. 22 (November 15,
    2012): 6086–88. https://doi.org/10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-12-2801.
  * Dunn, Gavin P., Peter E. Fecci, and William T. Curry. “Cancer
    immunoediting in malignant glioma.” Neurosurgery 71, no. 2 (August 2012):
    201–22. https://doi.org/10.1227/NEU.0b013e31824f840d.
  * Agarwalla, Pankaj, Zachary Barnard, Peter Fecci, Glenn Dranoff, and
    William T. Curry. “Sequential immunotherapy by vaccination with GM-CSF-
    expressing glioma cells and CTLA-4 blockade effectively treats established
    murine intracranial tumors.” J Immunother 35, no. 5 (June 2012): 385–89.
    https://doi.org/10.1097/CJI.0b013e3182562d59.
  * Chatterjee, N., K. Domoto-Reilly, P. E. Fecci, L. H. Schwamm, and A. B.
    Singhal. “Licorice-associated reversible cerebral vasoconstriction with
    PRES.” Neurology 75, no. 21 (November 23, 2010): 1939–41.
    https://doi.org/10.1212/WNL.0b013e3181feb299.
  * Fecci, Peter E., Hidenobu Ochiai, Duane A. Mitchell, Peter M. Grossi,
    Alison E. Sweeney, Gary E. Archer, Thomas Cummings, James P. Allison,
    Darell D. Bigner, and John H. Sampson. “Systemic CTLA-4 blockade
    ameliorates glioma-induced changes to the CD4+ T cell compartment without
    affecting regulatory T-cell function.” Clin Cancer Res 13, no. 7 (April 1,
    2007): 2158–67. https://doi.org/10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-06-2070.
  * Fecci, Peter E., Alison E. Sweeney, Peter M. Grossi, Smita K. Nair,
    Christopher A. Learn, Duane A. Mitchell, Xiuyu Cui, et al. “Systemic anti-
    CD25 monoclonal antibody administration safely enhances immunity in murine
    glioma without eliminating regulatory T cells.” Clin Cancer Res 12, no. 14
    Pt 1 (July 15, 2006): 4294–4305.
    https://doi.org/10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-06-0053.
  * Fecci, Peter E., Duane A. Mitchell, John F. Whitesides, Weihua Xie, Allan
    H. Friedman, Gary E. Archer, James E. Herndon, Darell D. Bigner, Glenn
    Dranoff, and John H. Sampson. “Increased regulatory T-cell fraction amidst
    a diminished CD4 compartment explains cellular immune defects in patients
    with malignant glioma.” Cancer Res 66, no. 6 (March 15, 2006): 3294–3302.
    https://doi.org/10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-05-3773.

## News from Duke BME

April 14, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Integrated Design Challenge Restores Balance to the Force

March 28, 2023 | **_Duke Institute for Brain Sciences_**

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 20, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

View all news

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

