Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Ravi Venkat Bellamkonda

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Adjunct Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Ravi Bellamkonda is the Vinik Dean of the Pratt School of Engineering at Duke
University. Prior to becoming dean, Bellamkonda served as the Wallace H.
Coulter Professor and chair of the Department of Biomedical Engineering at
Georgia Institute of Technology and Emory University. He is committed to
fostering transformative research and pedagogical innovation as well as
programs that create an entrepreneurial mindset amongst faculty and students.  
  
A trained bioengineer and neuroscientist, Bellamkonda holds an undergraduate
degree in biomedical engineering. His graduate training at Brown University
was in biomaterials and medical science (with Patrick Aebischer), and his
post-doctoral training at Massachusetts Institute of Technology focused on the
molecular mechanisms of axon guidance and neural development (with Jerry
Schneider and Sonal Jhaveri). His current research explores the interplay of
biomaterials and the nervous system for neural interfaces, nerve repair and
brain tumor therapy.  
  
From 2014 to 2016, Bellamkonda served as president of the American Institute
for Biological and Medical Engineering (AIMBE), the leading policy and
advocacy organization for biomedical engineers with representation from
industry, academia and government. Bellamkonda’s numerous awards include the
Clemson Award for Applied Research from the Society for Biomaterials, EUREKA
award from National Cancer Institute (National Institutes of Health), CAREER
award from the National Science Foundation and Best Professor Award from the
Georgia Tech Biomedical Engineering student body.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Adjunct Professor of Biomedical Engineering

## Contact Information

  * **Email Address:** ravi@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Bellamkonda Lab Website

## Education

  * Ph.D. Brown University, 1994

## Research Interests

Engineered devices for brain tumor therapy; immunomodulation for peripheral
and central nervous system repair; biomaterials; brain-machine interfaces.

## Courses Taught

  * EGR 393: Research Projects in Engineering

## In the News

  * Engineering Dean Bellamkonda Named Provost at Emory University; Glass to
    Serve …
  * Duke Launches Center to Bring Computational Thinking to All Students (Oct
    12, 2…
  * Seven From Duke Named Fellows of American Association for the Advancement
    of Sc…
  * An Immigrant's Story: How Three Decades in the U.S. Shaped Ravi
    Bellamkonda (Au…
  * Brain Tumor 'Pied Piper' Device Earns Breakthrough Status (Feb 6, 2019 |
    Pratt …
  * Duke Launches Marcus Center for Cellular Cures to Tackle Autism, MS,
    Stroke (Ma…
  * The Workplace of the Future (Aug 30, 2017)
  * Duke Engineering Dean Discusses Confronting and Overcoming Biases (Mar 21,
    2017)
  * Engineering Dean on Immigration Policy and Attracting the Best Minds (Mar
    20, 2…
  * Tumor-Seeking Salmonella Treats Brain Tumors (Jan 11, 2017)

## Representative Publications

  * Swan, Sheridan L., Nalini Mehta, Ekaterina Ilich, Steven H. Shen, Daniel
    S. Wilkinson, Alexa R. Anderson, Tatiana Segura, Luis Sanchez-Perez, John
    H. Sampson, and Ravi V. Bellamkonda. “IL7 and IL7 Flt3L co-expressing CAR
    T cells improve therapeutic efficacy in mouse EGFRvIII heterogeneous
    glioblastoma.” Frontiers in Immunology 14 (January 2023): 1085547.
    https://doi.org/10.3389/fimmu.2023.1085547.
  * Enam, Syed Faaiz, Cem Y. Kilic, Jianxi Huang, Brian J. Kang, Reed Chen,
    Connor S. Tribble, Ekaterina Ilich, et al. “Cytostatic hypothermia and its
    impact on glioblastoma and survival.” Sci Adv 8, no. 47 (November 25,
    2022): eabq4882. https://doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.abq4882.
  * Motz, Cara T., Victoria Kabat, Tarun Saxena, Ravi V. Bellamkonda, and
    Cheng Zhu. “Neuromechanobiology: An Expanding Field Driven by the Force of
    Greater Focus.” Advanced Healthcare Materials 10, no. 19 (October 2021):
    e2100102. https://doi.org/10.1002/adhm.202100102.
  * Park, Eunyoung, Johnathan G. Lyon, Melissa Alvarado-Velez, Martha I.
    Betancur, Nassir Mokarram, Jennifer H. Shin, and Ravi V. Bellamkonda.
    “Enriching neural stem cell and anti-inflammatory glial phenotypes with
    electrical stimulation after traumatic brain injury in male rats.” Journal
    of Neuroscience Research 99, no. 7 (July 2021): 1864–84.
    https://doi.org/10.1002/jnr.24834.
  * Yeon, P., S. K. Rajan, J. Falcone, J. L. Gonzalez, G. S. May, R. V.
    Bellamkonda, O. Brand, M. S. Bakir, and M. Ghovanloo. “Microfabrication,
    coil characterization, and hermetic packaging of millimeter-sized free-
    floating neural probes.” Ieee Sensors Journal 21, no. 12 (June 15, 2021):
    13837–48. https://doi.org/10.1109/JSEN.2021.3068077.

## News from Duke BME

April 14, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Integrated Design Challenge Restores Balance to the Force

March 28, 2023 | **_Duke Institute for Brain Sciences_**

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 20, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

View all news

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

