Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Roger C. Barr

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

**Quantitative Electrophysiology - Activation of the Heart.** Simulation
studies are being conducted on the activation process in cardiac tissue. To
carry this out it is necessary to describe quantitatively the electrical
(nonlinear) behavior of the cell membrane as well as to describe the
electrical ``load" (i.e. the electrical structure and conductivities of the
intracellular and extracellular medium). For studies which emphasize
activation alone the Hodgkin-Huxley and Ebihara-Johnson membrane models have
been used. Where recovery is important the Beeler-Reuter and DiFrancesco-Noble
models have been introduced.

Regarding the passive conductive properties of the cardiac muscle, because of
its syncytial nature (arising from multiple low resistance intercellular
junctions) the intracellular and interstitial space can be regarded as
continua though coupled at all points through the cell membrane. This
constitutes what has been called the bidomain model and is the basis for a
partial differential equation description of the fields of interest. The
directional differences in conductivity arising from the fiber orientation and
myofibril structure can be taken into account by using an anisotropic
conductivity tensor. In general the ratio of conductivities in the
intracellular and interstitial spaces are unequal, according to the isolated
experiments in the literature.

To date simulations have been carried out to describe current flow patterns
that arise under different assumed anisotropy conditions for both electrotonus
and action potential conditions. In one study the activation isochrones
resulting from a point stimulation were determined for a two-dimensional
homogeneous (though anisotropic) tissue. Based on the assumption of equal
anisotropy ratio simulations have been performed for a semi-infinite and
cylindrical bundle of tissue describing the character of the intracellular and
interstitial field as a function of depth into the tissue from the
extracellular (bounding) space. One sees a considerable non-uniformity of
magnitude near the surface so that measurements typically made at the surface
may not be representative of interior wave shape. In particular a wave
initiated at one end of a cylindrical bundle will develop a curved phase front
(curved isochrones). Other important consequences have to do with the
resulting source strength, velocity of propagation, e The above research is
ultimately directed toward models which may help elucidate the initiation of
cardiac arrhythmias.

We are also interested in developing cardiac muscle models that will help
clarify and elucidate the electrophysiological processes underlying
defibrillation. We have examined one-dimensional models to date and pointed
out the important role of the modified bidomain model which includes the
junctional resistance. This work is limited to steady-state solutions; results
emphasize a strong relationship to the size of the intercellular junction.
Current efforts are directed at an examination of the transient response to a
defibrillatory pulse by including the membrane capacitance. Still further
efforts are based on including a quantitative description of the membrane
ionic channels themselves. Our goal is eventual extension to a three-
dimensional model.

Further work is planned that will extend the aforementioned projects more
fully to three dimensions, to arbitrary anisotropy, and to actual heart
geometry. In particular we would like to extend work on one-dimensional
propagation models which includes the discontinuous structure arising from
intercellular junctions to three dimensions. Interest centers on explaining
both normal and abnormal experimental studies.  
  
**Neural Stimulation**. We have been interested in developing and examining
models arising from practical applications of functional electrical
stimulation. Work completed to date includes the characterization and behavior
of cuff electrodes which demonstrate the conditions under which unidirectional
propagation results. We have also considered the response of a nerve bundle
arising from a point stimulation source. Of particular interest was the
determination of the effect of fiber position within a bundle on excitation
threshold. In carrying out this latter study, the effect of current
redistribution from interstitial to intracellular space was included, but only
under steady-state conditions. This work needs to be extended to the transient
case.

The effect of electrode shape (electrode array) on stimulation properties is
also of interest and will be considered in the future. The reciprocal problem,
namely an investigation of the effect of electrode size and shape in
electromyography, is currently being studied.

**Electrophysiological Sources.** When excitable tissue (nerve or muscle) is
stimulated, the result is an action potential and associated action currents.
The action currents, by depolarizing membranes adjacent to the site undergoing
activation, serve to spread the activation --- and in this way result in the
propagation of the impulse. The action currents fill the entire conducting
region, according to the laws of electricity. As a result potential fields
surrounding and at a distance from active processes can be detected and
measured. Familiar examples are the electrocardiogram, electromyogram, etc.

The relationship between underlying electrical activation processes(sources)
and the potential fields they produce is of great interest. If carefully
characterized the opportunity is present for learning about cellular processes
based on external (noninvasive) measurements. This is important not only in
clinical situations, but in basic research as well.

The goal of this research is to develop quantitative formulations for the
electrical generators associated with activation processes. The case of a
single cell in a uniform volume conductor and its extension to the cylindrical
fiber has been well studied over the last twenty years. Interest now centers
on multi fiber preparations including muscle and nerve bundles, cardiac
muscle, and smooth muscle. Such formulations are needed during activation as
well as recovery. This is particularly important in the study of cardiac
tissue since recovery is not propagated.

As part of this study a particular effort is directed to a study of cardiac
recovery and the T-wave. New experimental methods provide an opportunity, for
the first time, to describe the action potential waveforms throughout the
heart providing a useful database. The goal is the quantitative analysis of
the origins of the T-wave as measured both on the torso and on the heart.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor of Biomedical Engineering
  * Faculty Network Member of the Duke Institute for Brain Sciences
  * Bass Fellow

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 1387 CIEMAS, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5123
  * **Email Address:** roger.barr@duke.edu

## Education

  * B.S. Duke University, 1964
  * Ph.D. Duke University, 1968

## Research Interests

Bioelectricity and biomedical computing.

## Courses Taught

  * BME 510: Bayesian Analysis in Biomedical Engineering (GE, EL)
  * BME 671L: Signal Processing and Applied Mathematics
  * BME 890: Advanced topics for PhD students

## In the News

  * Online Bioelectricity Course to Reach High School Teachers Nationwide (Nov
    24, …

## Representative Publications

  * Fricks, Rafael B., Henry Tseng, Marjorie Veihl, Kishor S. Trivedi, and
    Roger C. Barr. “Robust Prediction Of Treatment Times In Concurrent Patient
    Care.” Annual International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine
    and Biology Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society.
    Annual International Conference 2018 (July 2018): 5370–73.
    https://doi.org/10.1109/embc.2018.8513569.
  * Barr, Roger C. “Design of an Interactive Simulation Environment for Arrays
    of Cardiac Cells.” Annual International Conference of the Ieee Engineering
    in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Annual International Conference 2018 (July 2018): 5466–69.
    https://doi.org/10.1109/embc.2018.8513586.
  * White, J. A., A. D. Dorval, L. A. Geddes, R. C. Barr, B. K. Slaten, F.
    Barnes, D. R. Martinez, R. A. Bond, and M. Michael Vai. “Bioelectricity.”
    In Sensors, Nanoscience, Biomedical Engineering, and Instruments, 2016.
  * Waits, Charlotte Mae K., Roger C. Barr, and Andrew E. Pollard. “Sensor
    spacing affects the tissue impedance spectra of rabbit ventricular
    epicardium.” American Journal of Physiology. Heart and Circulatory
    Physiology 306, no. 12 (June 2014): H1660–68.
    https://doi.org/10.1152/ajpheart.00661.2013.
  * Barr, R. C. “Basic Electrophysiology.” In Biomedical Engineering
    Fundamentals, 38-1-38–21, 2014. https://doi.org/10.1201/b15482-43.

## News from Duke BME

April 14, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Integrated Design Challenge Restores Balance to the Force

March 28, 2023 | **_Duke Institute for Brain Sciences_**

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 20, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

View all news

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

