Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Sina Farsiu

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

I am the director of the Vision and Image Processing (VIP) Laboratory. Along
with my colleagues, we investigate how to improve early diagnostic methods and
find new imaging biomarkers of ocular and neurological diseases in adults
(e.g. age-related macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathy, Glaucoma,
Alzheimer) and children (e.g. retinopathy or prematurity). We also develop
automatic artificial intelligence machine learning and deep learning
algorithms to detect/segment/quantify anatomical/pathological structures seen
on medical images.  
  
On another front, we study efficient signal processing based methods to
overcome the theoretical and practical limitations that constrain the
achievable resolution of any imaging device. Our approach, which is based on
adaptive extraction and robust fusion of relevant information from the
expensive and sophisticated as well as simple and cheap sensors, has found
wide applications in improving the quality of imaging systems such as
ophthalmic SD-OCT, digital X-ray mammography, electronic and optical
microscopes, and commercial digital camcorders. We are also interested in
pursuing statistical signal processing based projects, including super-
resolution, demosaicing, deblurring, denoising, motion estimation, compressive
sensing/adaptive sampling, and sensor fusion.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering
  * Associate Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer
    Engineering
  * Professor of Computer Science
  * Faculty Network Member of the Duke Institute for Brain Sciences

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** CIEMAS 2575, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 684-6642
  * **Websites:**
    * Academic Webpage
    * Google Scholar
    * Vision & Image Processing Lab

## Education

  * B.S. Sharif University of Technology (Iran), 1999
  * M.S. University of Tehran (Iran), 2001
  * Ph.D. University of California - Santa Cruz, 2005
  * University of California - Santa Cruz, 2005
  * University of California - Santa Cruz, 2007

## Research Interests

Focused on medical imaging and machine learning to improve the overall health
and vision outcome of patients with ocular and neurological diseases (e.g.,
age-related macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathy, Alzheimer, and ALS)
through earlier and personalized therapy.

## Courses Taught

  * BME 493: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 494: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 544: Digital Image Processing (GE, IM)
  * BME 789: Internship in Biomedical Engineering
  * BME 791: Graduate Independent Study
  * ECE 899: Special Readings in Electrical Engineering

## In the News

  * AI Technique Opens Door for Accelerated Progress in Neuroscience Research
    (Mar …
  * A smartphone and new software could help save infants born preterm (Nov
    20, 201…
  * Handheld Probe Images Photoreceptors in Children (Aug 23, 2018 | Pratt
    School o…
  * Farsiu Receives Signal Processing Award (Sep 20, 2017 | Pratt School of
    Enginee…
  * New handheld device could allow for easy retina imaging in children (Aug
    10, 20…
  * At Duke, sibling sleuths try to unlock mummy mystery (Mar 4, 2016 | The
    News & …
  * Eye test could detect dementia (Apr 29, 2015 | The Daily Mail, Australian
    Assoc…
  * Sina Farsiu: Processing an Avalanche of Images (Aug 27, 2014 | Pratt
    School of …
  * Duke Labs Produce 2 Intel Talent Search Finalists (Feb 10, 2014 | Duke
    Research…

## Representative Publications

  * Estrada, Rolando, Carlo Tomasi, Scott C. Schmidler, and Sina Farsiu. “Tree
    Topology Estimation.” Ieee Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine
    Intelligence 37, no. 8 (August 2015): 1688–1701.
    https://doi.org/10.1109/tpami.2014.2382116.
  * Chiu, Stephanie J., Michael J. Allingham, Priyatham S. Mettu, Scott W.
    Cousins, Joseph A. Izatt, and Sina Farsiu. “Kernel regression based
    segmentation of optical coherence tomography images with diabetic macular
    edema.” Biomed Opt Express 6, no. 4 (April 1, 2015): 1172–94.
    https://doi.org/10.1364/BOE.6.001172.
  * Polans, James, Ryan P. McNabb, Joseph A. Izatt, and Sina Farsiu.
    “Compressed wavefront sensing.” Opt Lett 39, no. 5 (March 1, 2014):
    1189–92. https://doi.org/10.1364/OL.39.001189.
  * Srinivasan, Pratul P., Stephanie J. Heflin, Joseph A. Izatt, Vadim Y.
    Arshavsky, and Sina Farsiu. “Automatic segmentation of up to ten layer
    boundaries in SD-OCT images of the mouse retina with and without missing
    layers due to pathology.” Biomed Opt Express 5, no. 2 (February 1, 2014):
    348–65. https://doi.org/10.1364/BOE.5.000348.
  * Fang, Leyuan, Shutao Li, Ryan P. McNabb, Qing Nie, Anthony N. Kuo, Cynthia
    A. Toth, Joseph A. Izatt, and Sina Farsiu. “Fast acquisition and
    reconstruction of optical coherence tomography images via sparse
    representation.” Ieee Trans Med Imaging 32, no. 11 (November 2013):
    2034–49. https://doi.org/10.1109/TMI.2013.2271904.
  * Estrada, Rolando, Carlo Tomasi, Michelle T. Cabrera, David K. Wallace,
    Sharon F. Freedman, and Sina Farsiu. “Exploratory Dijkstra forest based
    automatic vessel segmentation: applications in video indirect
    ophthalmoscopy (VIO).” Biomed Opt Express 3, no. 2 (February 1, 2012):
    327–39. https://doi.org/10.1364/BOE.3.000327.
  * Chiu, Stephanie J., Joseph A. Izatt, Rachelle V. O’Connell, Katrina P.
    Winter, Cynthia A. Toth, and Sina Farsiu. “Validated automatic
    segmentation of AMD pathology including drusen and geographic atrophy in
    SD-OCT images.” Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci 53, no. 1 (January 5, 2012):
    53–61. https://doi.org/10.1167/iovs.11-7640.
  * Estrada, Rolando, Carlo Tomasi, Michelle T. Cabrera, David K. Wallace,
    Sharon F. Freedman, and Sina Farsiu. “Enhanced video indirect
    ophthalmoscopy (VIO) via robust mosaicing.” Biomed Opt Express 2, no. 10
    (October 1, 2011): 2871–87. https://doi.org/10.1364/BOE.2.002871.
  * Robinson, M Dirk, Cynthia A. Toth, Joseph Y. Lo, and Sina Farsiu.
    “Efﬁcient fourier-wavelet super-resolution.” Ieee Trans Image Process 19,
    no. 10 (October 2010): 2669–81. https://doi.org/10.1109/TIP.2010.2050107.
  * Chiu, Stephanie J., Xiao T. Li, Peter Nicholas, Cynthia A. Toth, Joseph A.
    Izatt, and Sina Farsiu. “Automatic segmentation of seven retinal layers in
    SDOCT images congruent with expert manual segmentation.” Opt Express 18,
    no. 18 (August 30, 2010): 19413–28. https://doi.org/10.1364/OE.18.019413.
  * Farsiu, Sina, James Christofferson, Brian Eriksson, Peyman Milanfar,
    Benjamin Friedlander, Ali Shakouri, and Robert Nowak. “Statistical
    detection and imaging of objects hidden in turbid media using ballistic
    photons.” Applied Optics 46, no. 23 (August 2007): 5805–22.
    https://doi.org/10.1364/ao.46.005805.
  * Farsiu, Sina, Michael Elad, and Peyman Milanfar. “Multiframe demosaicing
    and super-resolution of color images.” Ieee Transactions on Image
    Processing : A Publication of the Ieee Signal Processing Society 15, no. 1
    (January 2006): 141–59. https://doi.org/10.1109/tip.2005.860336.
  * Farsiu, Sina, M Dirk Robinson, Michael Elad, and Peyman Milanfar. “Fast
    and robust multiframe super resolution.” Ieee Transactions on Image
    Processing : A Publication of the Ieee Signal Processing Society 13, no.
    10 (October 2004): 1327–44. https://doi.org/10.1109/tip.2004.834669.

## News from Duke BME

April 14, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Integrated Design Challenge Restores Balance to the Force

March 28, 2023 | **_Duke Institute for Brain Sciences_**

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 20, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

View all news

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

