Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Stefan Zauscher

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

My research lies at the intersection of surface and colloid science, polymer
materials engineering, and biointerface science, with four central areas of
focus: 1\. Fabrication, manipulation and characterization of stimulus-
responsive biomolecular and bio-inspired polymeric nanostructures on surfaces;
2\. Nanotechnology of soft-wet materials and hybrid biological/non-biological
microdevices; 3\. Receptor-ligand interactions relevant to the diagnostics of
infectious diseases; 4\. Friction of soft-wet materials, specifically the role
of glycoproteins on friction in diarthroidal joints. These four broad lines of
inquiry deal with fundamental behaviors of soft-wet materials on surfaces and
interfaces. The design and fabrication of these interfaces using "smart"
polymeric and biomolecular nanostructures, and the characterization of the
resulting structures, are critically important for the development of
biomolecular sensors and devices and for bioinspired materials. Key approaches
and tools I use in my research are: bottom-up organization on the molecular
scale, through self-assembly, in-situ polymerization, and manipulation of
intermolecular interactions; topdown fabrication, through scanning probe
nanolithography; stimulus-responsive polymers; molecular recognition; and new
approaches to sensing and manipulation. This research supports Duke's Pratt
School of Engineering strategic initiative to expand research in soft-wet
Materials Science.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
    Science
  * Director of the Duke Materials Initiative
  * Associate Chair in Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering and
    Materials Science
  * Bass Fellow
  * Faculty Network Member of The Energy Initiative

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 3385 Fciemas Building, Box 90300, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5360
  * **Email Address:** zauscher@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Google Scholar
    * Zauscher Lab

## Education

  * M.S. Oregon State University, 1992
  * Ph.D. University of Wisconsin - Madison, 1999

## Research Interests

Nano-mechanical and nano-tribological characterization (elasticity, friction,
adhesion) of materials including organic thin films; self-assembled
monolayers, polymeric gels, and cellulosics; Fabrication of polymeric
nanostructures by scanning probe lithography; Colloidal probe and atomic force
microscopy; Single molecule force spectroscopy applied to ligand-receptor
binding; Biomolecular nano- and micro-sensors

## Courses Taught

  * BME 529: Properties and Characterization of Polymeric Materials
  * ME 221L: Structure and Properties of Solids
  * ME 391: Undergraduate Projects in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 490: Special Topics in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 514: Properties and Characterization of Polymeric Materials
  * ME 555: Advanced Topics in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 758S: Curricular Practical Training
  * MSEG 591: Independent Study

## In the News

  * Measuring the Lightest Touch Your Body Responds To (Feb 28, 2023 | Pratt
    School…
  * QATCH (Feb 1, 2021 | Duke Engineering Entrepreneurship)
  * Energy Initiative Provides First Round of Research Seed Funding (Apr 16,
    2014 |…

## Representative Publications

  * Young, Michael N., Michael J. Sindoni, Amanda H. Lewis, Stefan Zauscher,
    and Jörg Grandl. “The energetics of rapid cellular mechanotransduction.”
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 120, no. 8 (February 21, 2023): e2215747120.
    https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.2215747120.
  * Simon, Miriam, Albert Prause, Stefan Zauscher, and Michael Gradzielski.
    “Self-Assembled Single-Stranded DNA Nano-Networks in Solution and at
    Surfaces.” Biomacromolecules 23, no. 3 (March 2022): 1242–50.
    https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.biomac.1c01493.
  * Gilpin, Anna, Yuze Zeng, Jiaul Hoque, Ji Hyun Ryu, Yong Yang, Stefan
    Zauscher, William Eward, and Shyni Varghese. “Self-Healing of Hyaluronic
    Acid to Improve In Vivo Retention and Function.” Adv Healthc Mater 10, no.
    23 (December 2021): e2100777. https://doi.org/10.1002/adhm.202100777.
  * Yang, Yunqi, Qinyi Lu, Chao‐Min Huang, Hongji Qian, Yunlong Zhang, Sonal
    Deshpande, Gaurav Arya, Yonggang Ke, and Stefan Zauscher. “Programmable
    Site‐Specific Functionalization of DNA Origami with Polynucleotide
    Brushes.” Angewandte Chemie 133, no. 43 (October 18, 2021): 23429–35.
    https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.202107829.
  * Yang, Yunqi, Qinyi Lu, Chao-Min Huang, Hongji Qian, Yunlong Zhang, Sonal
    Deshpande, Gaurav Arya, Yonggang Ke, and Stefan Zauscher. “Programmable
    Site-Specific Functionalization of DNA Origami with Polynucleotide
    Brushes.” Angewandte Chemie (International Ed. in English) 60, no. 43
    (October 2021): 23241–47. https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202107829.

## News from Duke BME

April 14, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Integrated Design Challenge Restores Balance to the Force

March 28, 2023 | **_Duke Institute for Brain Sciences_**

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 20, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

View all news

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

