Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Stephen William Smith

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Professor Emeritus of Biomedical Engineering

Current research interests are the development and evaluation of improved
medical ultrasound image quality for applications in cardiology, radiology and
obstetrics. Advances in image quality result from improvements in the spatial
resolution and signal-to-noise ratio of diagnostic ultrasound scanners through
novel signal processing techniques and improved design of ultrasound
transducers.

One current project includes the development of two-dimensional phased array
transducers for application in the Duke 3-D ultrasound scanner in these N x N,
"checkerboard'' arrays are used to steer the ultrasound beam in both the
azimuth and elevation directions within the patient's body to interrogate a
pyramidal shaped object and produce a volumetric scan at high speeds without
moving the transducer.

Recently developed transducers include 100 x 100 = 10,000 element arrays
operating at 5-10 MHz. Each square element is only 0.2 mm on a side. In
addition, we have developed such 2D arrays to fit inside of intra-cardiac
catheters only 2 mm in diameter for guidance of cardiac interventional
procedures such as mapping and ablation of atrial fibrillation. Processing
technologies include the use of micro electronic packaging and fabrication
techniques to develop higher frequency arrays up to 20 MHz with improved
resolution and smaller element sizes down to 0.05 mm.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor Emeritus of Biomedical Engineering

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 1427 Fciemas, 101 Science Drive, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5160
  * **Email Address:** stephen.w.smith@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * http://transducers.bme.duke.edu/

## Education

  * B.A. Thomas More College, 1967
  * M.S. Iowa State University, 1969
  * Ph.D. Duke University, 1975

## Research Interests

Development and evaluation of improved medical ultrasound image quality for
applications in cardiology, radiology and obstetrics. Advances in image
quality result from improvements in the spatial resolution and signal-to-noise
ratio of diagnostic ultrasound scanners through novel signal processing
techniques and improved design of ultrasound transducers.

## Representative Publications

  * Smith, Stephen W., Paul Gardea, Vivek Patel, Stephen J. Douglas, and
    Patrick D. Wolf. “Double Ring Array Catheter for In Vivo Real-Time 3D
    Ultrasound.” Ultrasonic Imaging 36, no. 3 (July 2014): 167–76.
    https://doi.org/10.1177/0161734614523738.
  * Patel, Vivek, Jeremy J. Dahl, David P. Bradway, Joshua R. Doherty, Seung
    Yun Lee, and Stephen W. Smith. “Acoustic radiation force impulse imaging
    (ARFI) on an IVUS circular array.” Ultrasonic Imaging 36, no. 2 (April
    2014): 98–111. https://doi.org/10.1177/0161734613511595.
  * Lindsey, Brooks D., Heather A. Nicoletto, Ellen R. Bennett, Daniel T.
    Laskowitz, and Stephen W. Smith. “3-D transcranial ultrasound imaging with
    bilateral phase aberration correction of multiple isoplanatic patches: a
    pilot human study with microbubble contrast enhancement.” Ultrasound Med
    Biol 40, no. 1 (January 2014): 90–101.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2013.09.006.
  * Lindsey, Brooks D., and Stephen W. Smith. “Refraction correction in 3D
    transcranial ultrasound imaging.” Ultrasonic Imaging 36, no. 1 (January
    2014): 35–54. https://doi.org/10.1177/0161734613510287.
  * Patel, V., J. J. Dahl, D. P. Bradway, J. R. Doherty, and S. W. Smith.
    “Acoustic radiation force impulse imaging on an IVUS circular array.” In
    Ieee International Ultrasonics Symposium, Ius, 773–76, 2013.
    https://doi.org/10.1109/ULTSYM.2013.0199.

## News from Duke BME

April 14, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Integrated Design Challenge Restores Balance to the Force

March 28, 2023 | **_Duke Institute for Brain Sciences_**

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 20, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

View all news

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

