Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Tatiana Segura

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Tatiana Segura is a Professor of Biomedical Engineering, Neurology, and
Dermatology at Duke University. She received her B.S. degree in Bioengineering
from the University of California, Berkeley (UC Berkeley) and her doctorate in
Chemical Engineering from Northwestern University. She began her career in
Biomaterials research during her doctoral work working with Prof. Lonnie Shea.
She designed hydrogels for local non-viral gene delivery, a topic that she
still works on today. She continued her Biomaterials training during her
postdoctoral work with Jeffrey Hubbell. There she worked on the design of
hydrogels and self-assembled polysulfides for gene delivery. She began her
independent career at the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) in the
Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering reaching the title of
Professor. At UCLA she participated actively in service culminating with her
election as department Vice Chair and running the Graduate Program. At Duke
she has continued to be heavily involved in service at the department, school,
and university level. In only 5 years, she has Chaired 6 committees, and
participated in at least 6 more, is the direct mentor to two young assistant
professors, is the Co-director of the Center for Biotechnology and Tissue
Engineering and serves as MPI of the T32 Biotechnology Training grant. Notably
she is currently the Chair of the BME department Diversity Equity and
Inclusion Committee.

Prof. Segura’s research is centered on biomaterials and in engineering
biomaterial-soft tissue interactions to promote repair and regeneration.
Together with her lab members, she designs new biomaterial interventions that
can promote brain plasticity after stroke, promote scarless healing in skin
wounds, induce tolerance of transplanted skin, and promote constructive immune
responses after biomaterial implantation. Currently, her lab has 12 graduate
students, 4 postdoctoral scholars, 2 master students, 1 plastic surgery
resident, 16 undergraduate students, one high school student, and one research
associate.

Professor Segura has received numerous awards and distinctions during her
career, including being named a Senior Member of the National Academy of
Inventors, receiving the Acta Biomaterialia Silver Medal, a CAREER Award from
the National Science Foundation, a Outstanding Young Investigator Award from
the American Society of Gene and Cell Therapy, and a National Scientist
Development Grant from the American Heart Association. She was also named a
Fellow of the American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineers (AIMBE).
Professor Segura has published over 100 peer-reviewed papers and reviews and
has over 10,000 citations. Her laboratory has been continuously funded since
2008 with several grants from the National Institutes of Health (NIH).

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor of Biomedical Engineering
  * Professor in Neurology
  * Professor in Dermatology
  * Affiliate of the Duke Regeneration Center

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 534 Research Drive, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-2901
  * **Email Address:** tatiana.segura@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * @seguralab Twitter feed
    * Segura Lab website
    * Tatiana Segura on LinkedIn

## Education

  * B.S. University of California - Berkeley, 1999
  * Ph.D. Northwestern University, 2004

## Research Interests

The design of biomaterials to promote endogenous repair and reducing
inflammation through the design of the geometry of the material, and
delivering genes, proteins and drugs.

## Courses Taught

  * BME 394: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 493: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 494: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 771: Bioconjugation in drug biomaterials and drug delivery systems
  * BME 789: Internship in Biomedical Engineering
  * BME 790: Advanced Topics for Graduate Students in Biomedical Engineering
  * BME 791: Graduate Independent Study
  * EGR 393: Research Projects in Engineering
  * NEUROSCI 493: Research Independent Study 1
  * NEUROSCI 494: Research Independent Study 2
  * NEUROSCI 495: Research Independent Study 3

## In the News

  * A Gel That Regrows the Brain (Mar 2, 2022)
  * Antimicrobial Coating for Orthopedic Implants Prevents Dangerous
    Infections (Se…
  * Duke Celebrates Women and Girls in Science Day (Feb 10, 2021)
  * Wound-Healing Biomaterials Activate Immune System for Stronger Skin (Nov
    11, 20…
  * No Ordinary Gel: New Tools to Help the Body Repair Brain and Muscle Tissue
    (Nov…
  * New Biomaterial Helps Regrow Brain Tissue After Stroke in Mice (May 21,
    2018 | …

## Representative Publications

  * Wang, Mary F., Alexandria L. Sohn, Juhi Samal, Kevin Erning, Tatiana
    Segura, and David C. Muddiman. “Lipidomic Analysis of Mouse Brain to
    Evaluate the Efficacy and Preservation of Different Tissue Preparatory
    Techniques by IR-MALDESI-MSI.” Journal of the American Society for Mass
    Spectrometry, March 2023. https://doi.org/10.1021/jasms.2c00353.
  * Liu, Yining, Alejandra Suarez-Arnedo, Shamitha Shetty, Yaoying Wu,
    Michelle Schneider, Joel H. Collier, and Tatiana Segura. “A Balance
    between Pro-Inflammatory and Pro-Reparative Macrophages is Observed in
    Regenerative D-MAPS.” Advanced Science (Weinheim, Baden Wurttemberg,
    Germany), February 2023, e2204882. https://doi.org/10.1002/advs.202204882.
  * Anderson, Alexa R., and Tatiana Segura. “Controlling Particle Fraction in
    Microporous Annealed Particle Scaffolds for 3D Cell Culture.” Journal of
    Visualized Experiments : Jove, no. 188 (October 2022).
    https://doi.org/10.3791/64554.
  * Anderson, Alexa R., Ethan Nicklow, and Tatiana Segura. “Particle fraction
    is a bioactive cue in granular scaffolds.” Acta Biomaterialia 150
    (September 2022): 111–27. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actbio.2022.07.051.
  * Wilson, Katrina L., Sasha Cai Lesher Pérez, Moawiah M. Naffaa, Sean H.
    Kelly, and Tatiana Segura. “Stoichiometric Post-Modification of Hydrogel
    Microparticles Dictates Neural Stem Cell Fate in Microporous Annealed
    Particle Scaffolds.” Advanced Materials (Deerfield Beach, Fla.) 34, no. 33
    (August 2022): e2201921. https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202201921.

## News from Duke BME

April 14, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Integrated Design Challenge Restores Balance to the Force

March 28, 2023 | **_Duke Institute for Brain Sciences_**

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 20, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

View all news

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

