Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Tuan Vo-Dinh

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

R. Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Distinguished Professor of Biomedical
Engineering

Dr. Tuan Vo-Dinh is R. Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Distinguished Professor of
Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Chemistry, and Director of The
Fitzpatrick Institute for Photonics.

Dr. Vo-Dinh’s research activities and interests involve biophotonics,
nanophotonics, plasmonics, laser-excited luminescence spectroscopy, room
temperature phosphorimetry, synchronous luminescence spectroscopy, and
surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy for multi-modality bioimaging, and
theranostics (diagnostics and therapy) of diseases such as cancer and
infectious diseases.

We have pioneered the development of a new generation of gene biosensing
probes using surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) detection with
“Molecular Sentinels” and Plasmonic Coupling Interference (PCI) molecular
probes for multiplex and label-free detection of nucleic acid biomarkers (DNA,
mRNA, microRNA) in early detection of a wide variety of diseases.

In genomic and precision medicine, nucleic acid-based molecular diagnosis is
of paramount importance with many advantages such as high specificity, high
sensitivity, serotyping capability, and mutation detection. Using SERS-based
plasmonic nanobiosensors and nanochips, we are developing novel nucleic acid
detection methods that can be integrated into lab-on-a-chip systems for point-
of-care diagnosis (e.g., breast, GI cancer) and global health applications
(e.g., detection of malaria and dengue).

In bioimaging, we are developing a novel multifunctional gold nanostar (GNS)
probe for use in multi-modality bioimaging in pre-operative scans with PET,
MRI and CT, intraoperative margin delineation with optical imaging, SERS and
two-photon luminescence (TPL). The GNS can be used also for cancer treatment
with plasmonics enhanced photothermal therapy (PTT), thus providing an
excellent platform for seamless diagnostics and therapy (i.e., theranostics).
Preclinical studies have shown its great potential for cancer diagnostics and
therapeutics for future clinical translation.

For fundamental studies, various nanobiosensors are being developed for
monitoring intracellular parameters (e.g., pH) and biomolecular processes
(e.g., apoptosis, caspases), opening the possibility for fundamental molecular
biological research as well as biomedical applications (e.g., drug discovery)
at the single cell level in a systems biology approach. For point of care
diagnostics, nanoprobes and nanochips with highly multiplex SERS detection and
imaging use artificial intelligence and machine learning for data analysis.

Our research activities in immunotherapy involve unique plasmonics-active gold
“nanostars.” These star-shaped nanobodies made of gold work like “lightning
rods,” concentrating the electromagnetic energy at their tips and allowing
them to capture photon energy more efficiently when irradiated by laser light.
Teaming with medical collaborators, we have developed a novel cancer treatment
modality, called synergistic immuno photothermal nanotherapy (SYMPHONY), which
combines immune-checkpoint inhibition and gold nanostar–mediated photothermal
immunotherapy that can unleash the immunotherapeutic efficacy of checkpoint
inhibitors. This combination treatment can eradicate the primary tumors as
well as distant “untreated” tumors, and induce immunologic memory like a
“anti-cancer vaccine” effect in murine model.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * R. Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Distinguished Professor of Biomedical
    Engineering
  * Professor of Biomedical Engineering
  * Professor in the Department of Chemistry
  * Faculty Network Member of The Energy Initiative
  * Member of the Duke Cancer Institute

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 2589 CIEMAS, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5598
  * **Email Address:** tuan.vodinh@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Curriculum Vitae
    * Fitzpatrick Institute for Photonics
    * Google Scholar
    * Vo-Dinh Lab

## Education

  * B.S. Swiss Federal Institute of Technology-EPFL Lausanne (Switzerland),
    1971
  * Ph.D. Swiss Federal Institute of Technology-ETH Zurich (Switzerland), 1975

## Research Interests

Biophotonics, laser-excited luminescence spectroscopy, room temperature
phosphorimetry, synchronous luminescence spectroscopy, surface-enhanced Raman
spectroscopy, field environmental instrumentation, fiberoptics sensors,
nanosensors, biosensors and biochips for the protection of the environment and
the improvement of human health. More at vodinh.pratt.duke.edu

## Courses Taught

  * BME 493: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 494: Projects in Biomedical Engineering (GE)
  * BME 555: Advances in Photonics (GE, IM)
  * BME 567: Biosensors (GE, IM, MC)
  * BME 791: Graduate Independent Study
  * BME 792: Continuation of Graduate Independent Study
  * CHEM 393: Research Independent Study
  * CHEM 394: Research Independent Study
  * CHEM 601: Biosensors
  * CHEM 630: Advances in Photonics (GE, IM)
  * EGR 393: Research Projects in Engineering

## In the News

  * Nanorattles Shake Up New Possibilities for Disease Detection (Sep 20, 2022
    | Pr…
  * Silver-Plated Gold Nanostars Detect Early Cancer Biomarkers (Jul 22, 2020
    | Pra…
  * Duke Scientists Receive Royal Society of Chemistry Awards (May 7, 2019)
  * Tuan Vo-Dinh to be Part of International Day of Light in Paris (Apr 5,
    2018)
  * Three Engineers Named to National Academy of Inventors (Dec 13, 2017)
  * Shedding light on cancer (Sep 12, 2017 | Duke Clinical & Translational
    Science …
  * Energy Initiative Provides First Round of Research Seed Funding (Apr 16,
    2014)
  * Duke-designed nanoprobes may detect early disease markers (Sep 9, 2013 |
    News &…
  * Light and Nanoprobes Detect Early Signs of Infection (Jun 20, 2013 | Pratt
    Sch…

## Representative Publications

  * Dukes, Priya V., Pietro Strobbia, Hoan T. Ngo, Ren A. Odion, Daniel Rocke,
    Walter T. Lee, and Tuan Vo-Dinh. “Plasmonic assay for amplification-free
    cancer biomarkers detection in clinical tissue samples.” Anal Chim Acta
    1139 (December 1, 2020): 111–18.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aca.2020.09.003.
  * Fales, Andrew M., Pietro Strobbia, Tuan Vo-Dinh, Ilko K. Ilev, and T
    Joshua Pfefer. “3D-printed phantoms for characterizing SERS nanoparticle
    detectability in turbid media.” The Analyst 145, no. 18 (September 2020):
    6045–53. https://doi.org/10.1039/d0an01295e.
  * Sung, Anthony D., Richard C. Yen, Yiqun Jiao, Alyssa Bernanke, Deborah A.
    Lewis, Sara E. Miller, Zhiguo Li, et al. “Fibrinogen-Coated Albumin
    Nanospheres Prevent Thrombocytopenia-Related Bleeding.” Radiat Res 194,
    no. 2 (August 1, 2020): 162–72. https://doi.org/10.1667/RADE-20-00016.

## News from Duke BME

April 14, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Integrated Design Challenge Restores Balance to the Force

March 28, 2023 | **_Duke Institute for Brain Sciences_**

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 20, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

View all news

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

