Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Wanda Krassowska Neu

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Professor Emeritus of Biomedical Engineering

**Electroporation-Mediated Drug and Gene Delivery**  
Electroporation refers to the creation of small (1-40 nm) pores in the lipid
bilayer of the membrane in response to large electric shocks. Electroporation
occurs as an undesirable side effect in accidental contacts with high voltage
wires or when defibrillation shocks are applied to the heart to prevent sudden
cardiac death. However, electroporation has also important applications in
biotechnology, as pores allow the introduction of drugs and DNA into cells.
Still, this technique is largely empirical and the results are often variable
and difficult to control. Our research in this area concentrates on the
development of a model of electroporation that would allow theoretical
investigation of the creation of pores during the shock, the flow of ions,
drugs, and DNA through pores, and the resulting changes in intracellular
concentrations.

**Nonlinear Dynamics Approach to Cardiac Arrhythmias**  
Cardiac arrhythmias, serious and potentially fatal diseases, can only rarely
be successfully controlled with medication. The only available treatment is
defibrillation, the delivery of a large electric shock. Such shocks often have
serious side effects. Our research investigates the feasibility of alternative
treatments for cardiac tachyarrhythmias that instead of large shocks use an
appropriately timed train of small pulses. The approach is based on the
feedback protocols that have been developed to control the dynamics of complex
nonlinear systems and involves animal experiments, mathematical modeling, and
computer simulations. These studies allow us to gain a better insight into the
dynamics of cardiac rhythm and to assess the feasibility of bringing an
episode of arrhythmia under control, terminate it, or even inhibit its
occurrence.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor Emeritus of Biomedical Engineering
  * Bass Fellow

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** Room 1427, Fitzpatrick Center (Fciemas), 101 Science
    Drive, Durham, NC 27708-0281
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5131
  * **Email Address:** wanda.neu@duke.edu

## Education

  * M.S. Warsaw University of Technology (Poland), 1978
  * Ph.D. Duke University, 1987

## Research Interests

Electroporation-mediated drug delivery and gene therapy; Control of cardiac
arrhythmias using nonlinear dynamics

## Representative Publications

  * Idriss, S. F., W. Krassowska Neu, V. Varadarajan, T. Antonijevic, S. S.
    Gilani, and J. M. Starobin. “Feasibility of non-invasive determination of
    the stability of propagation reserve in patients.” Computing in Cardiology
    39 (December 1, 2012): 353–56.
  * Cranford, Jonathan P., Brian J. Kim, and Wanda Krassowska Neu. “Asymptotic
    model of electrical stimulation of nerve fibers.” Medical & Biological
    Engineering & Computing 50, no. 3 (March 2012): 243–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11517-012-0870-3.
  * Neu, W. K., and J. C. Neu. “Theory of electroporation,” December 1, 2009,
    133–61. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79403-7_7.
  * Dobrovolny, H. M., C. M. Berger, N. H. Brown, W. K. Neu, and D. J.
    Gauthier. “Spatial heterogeneity of restitution properties and the onset
    of alternans.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual International
    Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee
    Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference, December 1, 2009,
    4186–89.
  * “Variability of action potential duration in pharmacologically induced
    long QT syndrome type 1.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual
    International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference,
    January 1, 2009, 4520–22.

  * Idriss, S. F., W. Krassowska Neu, V. Varadarajan, T. Antonijevic, S. S.
    Gilani, and J. M. Starobin. “Feasibility of non-invasive determination of
    the stability of propagation reserve in patients.” Computing in Cardiology
    39 (December 1, 2012): 353–56.
  * Cranford, Jonathan P., Brian J. Kim, and Wanda Krassowska Neu. “Asymptotic
    model of electrical stimulation of nerve fibers.” Medical & Biological
    Engineering & Computing 50, no. 3 (March 2012): 243–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11517-012-0870-3.
  * Neu, W. K., and J. C. Neu. “Theory of electroporation,” December 1, 2009,
    133–61. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79403-7_7.
  * Dobrovolny, H. M., C. M. Berger, N. H. Brown, W. K. Neu, and D. J.
    Gauthier. “Spatial heterogeneity of restitution properties and the onset
    of alternans.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual International
    Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee
    Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference, December 1, 2009,
    4186–89.
  * “Variability of action potential duration in pharmacologically induced
    long QT syndrome type 1.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual
    International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference,
    January 1, 2009, 4520–22.

  * Idriss, S. F., W. Krassowska Neu, V. Varadarajan, T. Antonijevic, S. S.
    Gilani, and J. M. Starobin. “Feasibility of non-invasive determination of
    the stability of propagation reserve in patients.” Computing in Cardiology
    39 (December 1, 2012): 353–56.
  * Cranford, Jonathan P., Brian J. Kim, and Wanda Krassowska Neu. “Asymptotic
    model of electrical stimulation of nerve fibers.” Medical & Biological
    Engineering & Computing 50, no. 3 (March 2012): 243–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11517-012-0870-3.
  * Neu, W. K., and J. C. Neu. “Theory of electroporation,” December 1, 2009,
    133–61. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79403-7_7.
  * Dobrovolny, H. M., C. M. Berger, N. H. Brown, W. K. Neu, and D. J.
    Gauthier. “Spatial heterogeneity of restitution properties and the onset
    of alternans.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual International
    Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee
    Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference, December 1, 2009,
    4186–89.
  * “Variability of action potential duration in pharmacologically induced
    long QT syndrome type 1.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual
    International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference,
    January 1, 2009, 4520–22.

  * Idriss, S. F., W. Krassowska Neu, V. Varadarajan, T. Antonijevic, S. S.
    Gilani, and J. M. Starobin. “Feasibility of non-invasive determination of
    the stability of propagation reserve in patients.” Computing in Cardiology
    39 (December 1, 2012): 353–56.
  * Cranford, Jonathan P., Brian J. Kim, and Wanda Krassowska Neu. “Asymptotic
    model of electrical stimulation of nerve fibers.” Medical & Biological
    Engineering & Computing 50, no. 3 (March 2012): 243–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11517-012-0870-3.
  * Neu, W. K., and J. C. Neu. “Theory of electroporation,” December 1, 2009,
    133–61. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79403-7_7.
  * Dobrovolny, H. M., C. M. Berger, N. H. Brown, W. K. Neu, and D. J.
    Gauthier. “Spatial heterogeneity of restitution properties and the onset
    of alternans.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual International
    Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee
    Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference, December 1, 2009,
    4186–89.
  * “Variability of action potential duration in pharmacologically induced
    long QT syndrome type 1.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual
    International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference,
    January 1, 2009, 4520–22.

  * Idriss, S. F., W. Krassowska Neu, V. Varadarajan, T. Antonijevic, S. S.
    Gilani, and J. M. Starobin. “Feasibility of non-invasive determination of
    the stability of propagation reserve in patients.” Computing in Cardiology
    39 (December 1, 2012): 353–56.
  * Cranford, Jonathan P., Brian J. Kim, and Wanda Krassowska Neu. “Asymptotic
    model of electrical stimulation of nerve fibers.” Medical & Biological
    Engineering & Computing 50, no. 3 (March 2012): 243–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11517-012-0870-3.
  * Neu, W. K., and J. C. Neu. “Theory of electroporation,” December 1, 2009,
    133–61. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79403-7_7.
  * Dobrovolny, H. M., C. M. Berger, N. H. Brown, W. K. Neu, and D. J.
    Gauthier. “Spatial heterogeneity of restitution properties and the onset
    of alternans.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual International
    Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee
    Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference, December 1, 2009,
    4186–89.
  * “Variability of action potential duration in pharmacologically induced
    long QT syndrome type 1.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual
    International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference,
    January 1, 2009, 4520–22.

  * Idriss, S. F., W. Krassowska Neu, V. Varadarajan, T. Antonijevic, S. S.
    Gilani, and J. M. Starobin. “Feasibility of non-invasive determination of
    the stability of propagation reserve in patients.” Computing in Cardiology
    39 (December 1, 2012): 353–56.
  * Cranford, Jonathan P., Brian J. Kim, and Wanda Krassowska Neu. “Asymptotic
    model of electrical stimulation of nerve fibers.” Medical & Biological
    Engineering & Computing 50, no. 3 (March 2012): 243–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11517-012-0870-3.
  * Neu, W. K., and J. C. Neu. “Theory of electroporation,” December 1, 2009,
    133–61. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79403-7_7.
  * Dobrovolny, H. M., C. M. Berger, N. H. Brown, W. K. Neu, and D. J.
    Gauthier. “Spatial heterogeneity of restitution properties and the onset
    of alternans.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual International
    Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee
    Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference, December 1, 2009,
    4186–89.
  * “Variability of action potential duration in pharmacologically induced
    long QT syndrome type 1.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual
    International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference,
    January 1, 2009, 4520–22.

  * Idriss, S. F., W. Krassowska Neu, V. Varadarajan, T. Antonijevic, S. S.
    Gilani, and J. M. Starobin. “Feasibility of non-invasive determination of
    the stability of propagation reserve in patients.” Computing in Cardiology
    39 (December 1, 2012): 353–56.
  * Cranford, Jonathan P., Brian J. Kim, and Wanda Krassowska Neu. “Asymptotic
    model of electrical stimulation of nerve fibers.” Medical & Biological
    Engineering & Computing 50, no. 3 (March 2012): 243–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11517-012-0870-3.
  * Neu, W. K., and J. C. Neu. “Theory of electroporation,” December 1, 2009,
    133–61. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79403-7_7.
  * Dobrovolny, H. M., C. M. Berger, N. H. Brown, W. K. Neu, and D. J.
    Gauthier. “Spatial heterogeneity of restitution properties and the onset
    of alternans.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual International
    Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee
    Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference, December 1, 2009,
    4186–89.
  * “Variability of action potential duration in pharmacologically induced
    long QT syndrome type 1.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual
    International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference,
    January 1, 2009, 4520–22.

  * Idriss, S. F., W. Krassowska Neu, V. Varadarajan, T. Antonijevic, S. S.
    Gilani, and J. M. Starobin. “Feasibility of non-invasive determination of
    the stability of propagation reserve in patients.” Computing in Cardiology
    39 (December 1, 2012): 353–56.
  * Cranford, Jonathan P., Brian J. Kim, and Wanda Krassowska Neu. “Asymptotic
    model of electrical stimulation of nerve fibers.” Medical & Biological
    Engineering & Computing 50, no. 3 (March 2012): 243–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11517-012-0870-3.
  * Neu, W. K., and J. C. Neu. “Theory of electroporation,” December 1, 2009,
    133–61. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79403-7_7.
  * Dobrovolny, H. M., C. M. Berger, N. H. Brown, W. K. Neu, and D. J.
    Gauthier. “Spatial heterogeneity of restitution properties and the onset
    of alternans.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual International
    Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee
    Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference, December 1, 2009,
    4186–89.
  * “Variability of action potential duration in pharmacologically induced
    long QT syndrome type 1.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual
    International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference,
    January 1, 2009, 4520–22.

  * Idriss, S. F., W. Krassowska Neu, V. Varadarajan, T. Antonijevic, S. S.
    Gilani, and J. M. Starobin. “Feasibility of non-invasive determination of
    the stability of propagation reserve in patients.” Computing in Cardiology
    39 (December 1, 2012): 353–56.
  * Cranford, Jonathan P., Brian J. Kim, and Wanda Krassowska Neu. “Asymptotic
    model of electrical stimulation of nerve fibers.” Medical & Biological
    Engineering & Computing 50, no. 3 (March 2012): 243–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11517-012-0870-3.
  * Neu, W. K., and J. C. Neu. “Theory of electroporation,” December 1, 2009,
    133–61. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79403-7_7.
  * Dobrovolny, H. M., C. M. Berger, N. H. Brown, W. K. Neu, and D. J.
    Gauthier. “Spatial heterogeneity of restitution properties and the onset
    of alternans.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual International
    Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee
    Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference, December 1, 2009,
    4186–89.
  * “Variability of action potential duration in pharmacologically induced
    long QT syndrome type 1.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual
    International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference,
    January 1, 2009, 4520–22.

  * Idriss, S. F., W. Krassowska Neu, V. Varadarajan, T. Antonijevic, S. S.
    Gilani, and J. M. Starobin. “Feasibility of non-invasive determination of
    the stability of propagation reserve in patients.” Computing in Cardiology
    39 (December 1, 2012): 353–56.
  * Cranford, Jonathan P., Brian J. Kim, and Wanda Krassowska Neu. “Asymptotic
    model of electrical stimulation of nerve fibers.” Medical & Biological
    Engineering & Computing 50, no. 3 (March 2012): 243–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11517-012-0870-3.
  * Neu, W. K., and J. C. Neu. “Theory of electroporation,” December 1, 2009,
    133–61. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79403-7_7.
  * Dobrovolny, H. M., C. M. Berger, N. H. Brown, W. K. Neu, and D. J.
    Gauthier. “Spatial heterogeneity of restitution properties and the onset
    of alternans.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual International
    Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee
    Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference, December 1, 2009,
    4186–89.
  * “Variability of action potential duration in pharmacologically induced
    long QT syndrome type 1.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual
    International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference,
    January 1, 2009, 4520–22.

  * Idriss, S. F., W. Krassowska Neu, V. Varadarajan, T. Antonijevic, S. S.
    Gilani, and J. M. Starobin. “Feasibility of non-invasive determination of
    the stability of propagation reserve in patients.” Computing in Cardiology
    39 (December 1, 2012): 353–56.
  * Cranford, Jonathan P., Brian J. Kim, and Wanda Krassowska Neu. “Asymptotic
    model of electrical stimulation of nerve fibers.” Medical & Biological
    Engineering & Computing 50, no. 3 (March 2012): 243–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11517-012-0870-3.
  * Neu, W. K., and J. C. Neu. “Theory of electroporation,” December 1, 2009,
    133–61. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79403-7_7.
  * Dobrovolny, H. M., C. M. Berger, N. H. Brown, W. K. Neu, and D. J.
    Gauthier. “Spatial heterogeneity of restitution properties and the onset
    of alternans.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual International
    Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee
    Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference, December 1, 2009,
    4186–89.
  * “Variability of action potential duration in pharmacologically induced
    long QT syndrome type 1.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual
    International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference,
    January 1, 2009, 4520–22.

  * Idriss, S. F., W. Krassowska Neu, V. Varadarajan, T. Antonijevic, S. S.
    Gilani, and J. M. Starobin. “Feasibility of non-invasive determination of
    the stability of propagation reserve in patients.” Computing in Cardiology
    39 (December 1, 2012): 353–56.
  * Cranford, Jonathan P., Brian J. Kim, and Wanda Krassowska Neu. “Asymptotic
    model of electrical stimulation of nerve fibers.” Medical & Biological
    Engineering & Computing 50, no. 3 (March 2012): 243–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11517-012-0870-3.
  * Neu, W. K., and J. C. Neu. “Theory of electroporation,” December 1, 2009,
    133–61. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79403-7_7.
  * Dobrovolny, H. M., C. M. Berger, N. H. Brown, W. K. Neu, and D. J.
    Gauthier. “Spatial heterogeneity of restitution properties and the onset
    of alternans.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual International
    Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee
    Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference, December 1, 2009,
    4186–89.
  * “Variability of action potential duration in pharmacologically induced
    long QT syndrome type 1.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual
    International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference,
    January 1, 2009, 4520–22.

  * Idriss, S. F., W. Krassowska Neu, V. Varadarajan, T. Antonijevic, S. S.
    Gilani, and J. M. Starobin. “Feasibility of non-invasive determination of
    the stability of propagation reserve in patients.” Computing in Cardiology
    39 (December 1, 2012): 353–56.
  * Cranford, Jonathan P., Brian J. Kim, and Wanda Krassowska Neu. “Asymptotic
    model of electrical stimulation of nerve fibers.” Medical & Biological
    Engineering & Computing 50, no. 3 (March 2012): 243–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11517-012-0870-3.
  * Neu, W. K., and J. C. Neu. “Theory of electroporation,” December 1, 2009,
    133–61. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79403-7_7.
  * Dobrovolny, H. M., C. M. Berger, N. H. Brown, W. K. Neu, and D. J.
    Gauthier. “Spatial heterogeneity of restitution properties and the onset
    of alternans.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual International
    Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee
    Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference, December 1, 2009,
    4186–89.
  * “Variability of action potential duration in pharmacologically induced
    long QT syndrome type 1.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual
    International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference,
    January 1, 2009, 4520–22.

  * Idriss, S. F., W. Krassowska Neu, V. Varadarajan, T. Antonijevic, S. S.
    Gilani, and J. M. Starobin. “Feasibility of non-invasive determination of
    the stability of propagation reserve in patients.” Computing in Cardiology
    39 (December 1, 2012): 353–56.
  * Cranford, Jonathan P., Brian J. Kim, and Wanda Krassowska Neu. “Asymptotic
    model of electrical stimulation of nerve fibers.” Medical & Biological
    Engineering & Computing 50, no. 3 (March 2012): 243–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11517-012-0870-3.
  * Neu, W. K., and J. C. Neu. “Theory of electroporation,” December 1, 2009,
    133–61. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79403-7_7.
  * Dobrovolny, H. M., C. M. Berger, N. H. Brown, W. K. Neu, and D. J.
    Gauthier. “Spatial heterogeneity of restitution properties and the onset
    of alternans.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual International
    Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee
    Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference, December 1, 2009,
    4186–89.
  * “Variability of action potential duration in pharmacologically induced
    long QT syndrome type 1.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual
    International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference,
    January 1, 2009, 4520–22.

  * Idriss, S. F., W. Krassowska Neu, V. Varadarajan, T. Antonijevic, S. S.
    Gilani, and J. M. Starobin. “Feasibility of non-invasive determination of
    the stability of propagation reserve in patients.” Computing in Cardiology
    39 (December 1, 2012): 353–56.
  * Cranford, Jonathan P., Brian J. Kim, and Wanda Krassowska Neu. “Asymptotic
    model of electrical stimulation of nerve fibers.” Medical & Biological
    Engineering & Computing 50, no. 3 (March 2012): 243–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11517-012-0870-3.
  * Neu, W. K., and J. C. Neu. “Theory of electroporation,” December 1, 2009,
    133–61. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79403-7_7.
  * Dobrovolny, H. M., C. M. Berger, N. H. Brown, W. K. Neu, and D. J.
    Gauthier. “Spatial heterogeneity of restitution properties and the onset
    of alternans.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual International
    Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee
    Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference, December 1, 2009,
    4186–89.
  * “Variability of action potential duration in pharmacologically induced
    long QT syndrome type 1.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual
    International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference,
    January 1, 2009, 4520–22.

  * Idriss, S. F., W. Krassowska Neu, V. Varadarajan, T. Antonijevic, S. S.
    Gilani, and J. M. Starobin. “Feasibility of non-invasive determination of
    the stability of propagation reserve in patients.” Computing in Cardiology
    39 (December 1, 2012): 353–56.
  * Cranford, Jonathan P., Brian J. Kim, and Wanda Krassowska Neu. “Asymptotic
    model of electrical stimulation of nerve fibers.” Medical & Biological
    Engineering & Computing 50, no. 3 (March 2012): 243–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11517-012-0870-3.
  * Neu, W. K., and J. C. Neu. “Theory of electroporation,” December 1, 2009,
    133–61. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79403-7_7.
  * Dobrovolny, H. M., C. M. Berger, N. H. Brown, W. K. Neu, and D. J.
    Gauthier. “Spatial heterogeneity of restitution properties and the onset
    of alternans.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual International
    Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee
    Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference, December 1, 2009,
    4186–89.
  * “Variability of action potential duration in pharmacologically induced
    long QT syndrome type 1.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual
    International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference,
    January 1, 2009, 4520–22.

  * Idriss, S. F., W. Krassowska Neu, V. Varadarajan, T. Antonijevic, S. S.
    Gilani, and J. M. Starobin. “Feasibility of non-invasive determination of
    the stability of propagation reserve in patients.” Computing in Cardiology
    39 (December 1, 2012): 353–56.
  * Cranford, Jonathan P., Brian J. Kim, and Wanda Krassowska Neu. “Asymptotic
    model of electrical stimulation of nerve fibers.” Medical & Biological
    Engineering & Computing 50, no. 3 (March 2012): 243–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11517-012-0870-3.
  * Neu, W. K., and J. C. Neu. “Theory of electroporation,” December 1, 2009,
    133–61. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79403-7_7.
  * Dobrovolny, H. M., C. M. Berger, N. H. Brown, W. K. Neu, and D. J.
    Gauthier. “Spatial heterogeneity of restitution properties and the onset
    of alternans.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual International
    Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee
    Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference, December 1, 2009,
    4186–89.
  * “Variability of action potential duration in pharmacologically induced
    long QT syndrome type 1.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual
    International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference,
    January 1, 2009, 4520–22.

  * Idriss, S. F., W. Krassowska Neu, V. Varadarajan, T. Antonijevic, S. S.
    Gilani, and J. M. Starobin. “Feasibility of non-invasive determination of
    the stability of propagation reserve in patients.” Computing in Cardiology
    39 (December 1, 2012): 353–56.
  * Cranford, Jonathan P., Brian J. Kim, and Wanda Krassowska Neu. “Asymptotic
    model of electrical stimulation of nerve fibers.” Medical & Biological
    Engineering & Computing 50, no. 3 (March 2012): 243–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11517-012-0870-3.
  * Neu, W. K., and J. C. Neu. “Theory of electroporation,” December 1, 2009,
    133–61. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79403-7_7.
  * Dobrovolny, H. M., C. M. Berger, N. H. Brown, W. K. Neu, and D. J.
    Gauthier. “Spatial heterogeneity of restitution properties and the onset
    of alternans.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual International
    Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee
    Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference, December 1, 2009,
    4186–89.
  * “Variability of action potential duration in pharmacologically induced
    long QT syndrome type 1.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual
    International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference,
    January 1, 2009, 4520–22.

  * Idriss, S. F., W. Krassowska Neu, V. Varadarajan, T. Antonijevic, S. S.
    Gilani, and J. M. Starobin. “Feasibility of non-invasive determination of
    the stability of propagation reserve in patients.” Computing in Cardiology
    39 (December 1, 2012): 353–56.
  * Cranford, Jonathan P., Brian J. Kim, and Wanda Krassowska Neu. “Asymptotic
    model of electrical stimulation of nerve fibers.” Medical & Biological
    Engineering & Computing 50, no. 3 (March 2012): 243–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11517-012-0870-3.
  * Neu, W. K., and J. C. Neu. “Theory of electroporation,” December 1, 2009,
    133–61. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79403-7_7.
  * Dobrovolny, H. M., C. M. Berger, N. H. Brown, W. K. Neu, and D. J.
    Gauthier. “Spatial heterogeneity of restitution properties and the onset
    of alternans.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual International
    Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee
    Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference, December 1, 2009,
    4186–89.
  * “Variability of action potential duration in pharmacologically induced
    long QT syndrome type 1.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual
    International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference,
    January 1, 2009, 4520–22.

  * Idriss, S. F., W. Krassowska Neu, V. Varadarajan, T. Antonijevic, S. S.
    Gilani, and J. M. Starobin. “Feasibility of non-invasive determination of
    the stability of propagation reserve in patients.” Computing in Cardiology
    39 (December 1, 2012): 353–56.
  * Cranford, Jonathan P., Brian J. Kim, and Wanda Krassowska Neu. “Asymptotic
    model of electrical stimulation of nerve fibers.” Medical & Biological
    Engineering & Computing 50, no. 3 (March 2012): 243–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11517-012-0870-3.
  * Neu, W. K., and J. C. Neu. “Theory of electroporation,” December 1, 2009,
    133–61. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79403-7_7.
  * Dobrovolny, H. M., C. M. Berger, N. H. Brown, W. K. Neu, and D. J.
    Gauthier. “Spatial heterogeneity of restitution properties and the onset
    of alternans.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual International
    Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee
    Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference, December 1, 2009,
    4186–89.
  * “Variability of action potential duration in pharmacologically induced
    long QT syndrome type 1.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual
    International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference,
    January 1, 2009, 4520–22.

  * Idriss, S. F., W. Krassowska Neu, V. Varadarajan, T. Antonijevic, S. S.
    Gilani, and J. M. Starobin. “Feasibility of non-invasive determination of
    the stability of propagation reserve in patients.” Computing in Cardiology
    39 (December 1, 2012): 353–56.
  * Cranford, Jonathan P., Brian J. Kim, and Wanda Krassowska Neu. “Asymptotic
    model of electrical stimulation of nerve fibers.” Medical & Biological
    Engineering & Computing 50, no. 3 (March 2012): 243–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11517-012-0870-3.
  * Neu, W. K., and J. C. Neu. “Theory of electroporation,” December 1, 2009,
    133–61. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79403-7_7.
  * Dobrovolny, H. M., C. M. Berger, N. H. Brown, W. K. Neu, and D. J.
    Gauthier. “Spatial heterogeneity of restitution properties and the onset
    of alternans.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual International
    Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee
    Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference, December 1, 2009,
    4186–89.
  * “Variability of action potential duration in pharmacologically induced
    long QT syndrome type 1.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual
    International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference,
    January 1, 2009, 4520–22.

  * Idriss, S. F., W. Krassowska Neu, V. Varadarajan, T. Antonijevic, S. S.
    Gilani, and J. M. Starobin. “Feasibility of non-invasive determination of
    the stability of propagation reserve in patients.” Computing in Cardiology
    39 (December 1, 2012): 353–56.
  * Cranford, Jonathan P., Brian J. Kim, and Wanda Krassowska Neu. “Asymptotic
    model of electrical stimulation of nerve fibers.” Medical & Biological
    Engineering & Computing 50, no. 3 (March 2012): 243–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11517-012-0870-3.
  * Neu, W. K., and J. C. Neu. “Theory of electroporation,” December 1, 2009,
    133–61. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79403-7_7.
  * Dobrovolny, H. M., C. M. Berger, N. H. Brown, W. K. Neu, and D. J.
    Gauthier. “Spatial heterogeneity of restitution properties and the onset
    of alternans.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual International
    Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee
    Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference, December 1, 2009,
    4186–89.
  * “Variability of action potential duration in pharmacologically induced
    long QT syndrome type 1.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual
    International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference,
    January 1, 2009, 4520–22.

  * Idriss, S. F., W. Krassowska Neu, V. Varadarajan, T. Antonijevic, S. S.
    Gilani, and J. M. Starobin. “Feasibility of non-invasive determination of
    the stability of propagation reserve in patients.” Computing in Cardiology
    39 (December 1, 2012): 353–56.
  * Cranford, Jonathan P., Brian J. Kim, and Wanda Krassowska Neu. “Asymptotic
    model of electrical stimulation of nerve fibers.” Medical & Biological
    Engineering & Computing 50, no. 3 (March 2012): 243–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11517-012-0870-3.
  * Neu, W. K., and J. C. Neu. “Theory of electroporation,” December 1, 2009,
    133–61. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79403-7_7.
  * Dobrovolny, H. M., C. M. Berger, N. H. Brown, W. K. Neu, and D. J.
    Gauthier. “Spatial heterogeneity of restitution properties and the onset
    of alternans.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual International
    Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee
    Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference, December 1, 2009,
    4186–89.
  * “Variability of action potential duration in pharmacologically induced
    long QT syndrome type 1.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual
    International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference,
    January 1, 2009, 4520–22.

  * Idriss, S. F., W. Krassowska Neu, V. Varadarajan, T. Antonijevic, S. S.
    Gilani, and J. M. Starobin. “Feasibility of non-invasive determination of
    the stability of propagation reserve in patients.” Computing in Cardiology
    39 (December 1, 2012): 353–56.
  * Cranford, Jonathan P., Brian J. Kim, and Wanda Krassowska Neu. “Asymptotic
    model of electrical stimulation of nerve fibers.” Medical & Biological
    Engineering & Computing 50, no. 3 (March 2012): 243–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11517-012-0870-3.
  * Neu, W. K., and J. C. Neu. “Theory of electroporation,” December 1, 2009,
    133–61. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79403-7_7.
  * Dobrovolny, H. M., C. M. Berger, N. H. Brown, W. K. Neu, and D. J.
    Gauthier. “Spatial heterogeneity of restitution properties and the onset
    of alternans.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual International
    Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee
    Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference, December 1, 2009,
    4186–89.
  * “Variability of action potential duration in pharmacologically induced
    long QT syndrome type 1.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual
    International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference,
    January 1, 2009, 4520–22.

  * Idriss, S. F., W. Krassowska Neu, V. Varadarajan, T. Antonijevic, S. S.
    Gilani, and J. M. Starobin. “Feasibility of non-invasive determination of
    the stability of propagation reserve in patients.” Computing in Cardiology
    39 (December 1, 2012): 353–56.
  * Cranford, Jonathan P., Brian J. Kim, and Wanda Krassowska Neu. “Asymptotic
    model of electrical stimulation of nerve fibers.” Medical & Biological
    Engineering & Computing 50, no. 3 (March 2012): 243–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11517-012-0870-3.
  * Neu, W. K., and J. C. Neu. “Theory of electroporation,” December 1, 2009,
    133–61. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79403-7_7.
  * Dobrovolny, H. M., C. M. Berger, N. H. Brown, W. K. Neu, and D. J.
    Gauthier. “Spatial heterogeneity of restitution properties and the onset
    of alternans.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual International
    Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee
    Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference, December 1, 2009,
    4186–89.
  * “Variability of action potential duration in pharmacologically induced
    long QT syndrome type 1.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual
    International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference,
    January 1, 2009, 4520–22.

  * Idriss, S. F., W. Krassowska Neu, V. Varadarajan, T. Antonijevic, S. S.
    Gilani, and J. M. Starobin. “Feasibility of non-invasive determination of
    the stability of propagation reserve in patients.” Computing in Cardiology
    39 (December 1, 2012): 353–56.
  * Cranford, Jonathan P., Brian J. Kim, and Wanda Krassowska Neu. “Asymptotic
    model of electrical stimulation of nerve fibers.” Medical & Biological
    Engineering & Computing 50, no. 3 (March 2012): 243–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11517-012-0870-3.
  * Neu, W. K., and J. C. Neu. “Theory of electroporation,” December 1, 2009,
    133–61. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79403-7_7.
  * Dobrovolny, H. M., C. M. Berger, N. H. Brown, W. K. Neu, and D. J.
    Gauthier. “Spatial heterogeneity of restitution properties and the onset
    of alternans.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual International
    Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee
    Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference, December 1, 2009,
    4186–89.
  * “Variability of action potential duration in pharmacologically induced
    long QT syndrome type 1.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual
    International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference,
    January 1, 2009, 4520–22.

  * Idriss, S. F., W. Krassowska Neu, V. Varadarajan, T. Antonijevic, S. S.
    Gilani, and J. M. Starobin. “Feasibility of non-invasive determination of
    the stability of propagation reserve in patients.” Computing in Cardiology
    39 (December 1, 2012): 353–56.
  * Cranford, Jonathan P., Brian J. Kim, and Wanda Krassowska Neu. “Asymptotic
    model of electrical stimulation of nerve fibers.” Medical & Biological
    Engineering & Computing 50, no. 3 (March 2012): 243–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11517-012-0870-3.
  * Neu, W. K., and J. C. Neu. “Theory of electroporation,” December 1, 2009,
    133–61. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79403-7_7.
  * Dobrovolny, H. M., C. M. Berger, N. H. Brown, W. K. Neu, and D. J.
    Gauthier. “Spatial heterogeneity of restitution properties and the onset
    of alternans.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual International
    Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee
    Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference, December 1, 2009,
    4186–89.
  * “Variability of action potential duration in pharmacologically induced
    long QT syndrome type 1.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual
    International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference,
    January 1, 2009, 4520–22.

  * Idriss, S. F., W. Krassowska Neu, V. Varadarajan, T. Antonijevic, S. S.
    Gilani, and J. M. Starobin. “Feasibility of non-invasive determination of
    the stability of propagation reserve in patients.” Computing in Cardiology
    39 (December 1, 2012): 353–56.
  * Cranford, Jonathan P., Brian J. Kim, and Wanda Krassowska Neu. “Asymptotic
    model of electrical stimulation of nerve fibers.” Medical & Biological
    Engineering & Computing 50, no. 3 (March 2012): 243–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11517-012-0870-3.
  * Neu, W. K., and J. C. Neu. “Theory of electroporation,” December 1, 2009,
    133–61. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79403-7_7.
  * Dobrovolny, H. M., C. M. Berger, N. H. Brown, W. K. Neu, and D. J.
    Gauthier. “Spatial heterogeneity of restitution properties and the onset
    of alternans.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual International
    Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee
    Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference, December 1, 2009,
    4186–89.
  * “Variability of action potential duration in pharmacologically induced
    long QT syndrome type 1.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual
    International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference,
    January 1, 2009, 4520–22.

  * Idriss, S. F., W. Krassowska Neu, V. Varadarajan, T. Antonijevic, S. S.
    Gilani, and J. M. Starobin. “Feasibility of non-invasive determination of
    the stability of propagation reserve in patients.” Computing in Cardiology
    39 (December 1, 2012): 353–56.
  * Cranford, Jonathan P., Brian J. Kim, and Wanda Krassowska Neu. “Asymptotic
    model of electrical stimulation of nerve fibers.” Medical & Biological
    Engineering & Computing 50, no. 3 (March 2012): 243–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11517-012-0870-3.
  * Neu, W. K., and J. C. Neu. “Theory of electroporation,” December 1, 2009,
    133–61. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79403-7_7.
  * Dobrovolny, H. M., C. M. Berger, N. H. Brown, W. K. Neu, and D. J.
    Gauthier. “Spatial heterogeneity of restitution properties and the onset
    of alternans.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual International
    Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee
    Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference, December 1, 2009,
    4186–89.
  * “Variability of action potential duration in pharmacologically induced
    long QT syndrome type 1.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual
    International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference,
    January 1, 2009, 4520–22.

  * Idriss, S. F., W. Krassowska Neu, V. Varadarajan, T. Antonijevic, S. S.
    Gilani, and J. M. Starobin. “Feasibility of non-invasive determination of
    the stability of propagation reserve in patients.” Computing in Cardiology
    39 (December 1, 2012): 353–56.
  * Cranford, Jonathan P., Brian J. Kim, and Wanda Krassowska Neu. “Asymptotic
    model of electrical stimulation of nerve fibers.” Medical & Biological
    Engineering & Computing 50, no. 3 (March 2012): 243–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11517-012-0870-3.
  * Neu, W. K., and J. C. Neu. “Theory of electroporation,” December 1, 2009,
    133–61. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79403-7_7.
  * Dobrovolny, H. M., C. M. Berger, N. H. Brown, W. K. Neu, and D. J.
    Gauthier. “Spatial heterogeneity of restitution properties and the onset
    of alternans.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual International
    Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee
    Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference, December 1, 2009,
    4186–89.
  * “Variability of action potential duration in pharmacologically induced
    long QT syndrome type 1.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual
    International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference,
    January 1, 2009, 4520–22.

  * Idriss, S. F., W. Krassowska Neu, V. Varadarajan, T. Antonijevic, S. S.
    Gilani, and J. M. Starobin. “Feasibility of non-invasive determination of
    the stability of propagation reserve in patients.” Computing in Cardiology
    39 (December 1, 2012): 353–56.
  * Cranford, Jonathan P., Brian J. Kim, and Wanda Krassowska Neu. “Asymptotic
    model of electrical stimulation of nerve fibers.” Medical & Biological
    Engineering & Computing 50, no. 3 (March 2012): 243–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11517-012-0870-3.
  * Neu, W. K., and J. C. Neu. “Theory of electroporation,” December 1, 2009,
    133–61. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79403-7_7.
  * Dobrovolny, H. M., C. M. Berger, N. H. Brown, W. K. Neu, and D. J.
    Gauthier. “Spatial heterogeneity of restitution properties and the onset
    of alternans.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual International
    Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee
    Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference, December 1, 2009,
    4186–89.
  * “Variability of action potential duration in pharmacologically induced
    long QT syndrome type 1.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual
    International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference,
    January 1, 2009, 4520–22.

  * Idriss, S. F., W. Krassowska Neu, V. Varadarajan, T. Antonijevic, S. S.
    Gilani, and J. M. Starobin. “Feasibility of non-invasive determination of
    the stability of propagation reserve in patients.” Computing in Cardiology
    39 (December 1, 2012): 353–56.
  * Cranford, Jonathan P., Brian J. Kim, and Wanda Krassowska Neu. “Asymptotic
    model of electrical stimulation of nerve fibers.” Medical & Biological
    Engineering & Computing 50, no. 3 (March 2012): 243–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11517-012-0870-3.
  * Neu, W. K., and J. C. Neu. “Theory of electroporation,” December 1, 2009,
    133–61. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79403-7_7.
  * Dobrovolny, H. M., C. M. Berger, N. H. Brown, W. K. Neu, and D. J.
    Gauthier. “Spatial heterogeneity of restitution properties and the onset
    of alternans.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual International
    Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee
    Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference, December 1, 2009,
    4186–89.
  * “Variability of action potential duration in pharmacologically induced
    long QT syndrome type 1.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual
    International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference,
    January 1, 2009, 4520–22.

  * Idriss, S. F., W. Krassowska Neu, V. Varadarajan, T. Antonijevic, S. S.
    Gilani, and J. M. Starobin. “Feasibility of non-invasive determination of
    the stability of propagation reserve in patients.” Computing in Cardiology
    39 (December 1, 2012): 353–56.
  * Cranford, Jonathan P., Brian J. Kim, and Wanda Krassowska Neu. “Asymptotic
    model of electrical stimulation of nerve fibers.” Medical & Biological
    Engineering & Computing 50, no. 3 (March 2012): 243–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11517-012-0870-3.
  * Neu, W. K., and J. C. Neu. “Theory of electroporation,” December 1, 2009,
    133–61. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79403-7_7.
  * Dobrovolny, H. M., C. M. Berger, N. H. Brown, W. K. Neu, and D. J.
    Gauthier. “Spatial heterogeneity of restitution properties and the onset
    of alternans.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual International
    Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee
    Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference, December 1, 2009,
    4186–89.
  * “Variability of action potential duration in pharmacologically induced
    long QT syndrome type 1.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual
    International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference,
    January 1, 2009, 4520–22.

  * Idriss, S. F., W. Krassowska Neu, V. Varadarajan, T. Antonijevic, S. S.
    Gilani, and J. M. Starobin. “Feasibility of non-invasive determination of
    the stability of propagation reserve in patients.” Computing in Cardiology
    39 (December 1, 2012): 353–56.
  * Cranford, Jonathan P., Brian J. Kim, and Wanda Krassowska Neu. “Asymptotic
    model of electrical stimulation of nerve fibers.” Medical & Biological
    Engineering & Computing 50, no. 3 (March 2012): 243–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11517-012-0870-3.
  * Neu, W. K., and J. C. Neu. “Theory of electroporation,” December 1, 2009,
    133–61. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79403-7_7.
  * Dobrovolny, H. M., C. M. Berger, N. H. Brown, W. K. Neu, and D. J.
    Gauthier. “Spatial heterogeneity of restitution properties and the onset
    of alternans.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual International
    Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee
    Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference, December 1, 2009,
    4186–89.
  * “Variability of action potential duration in pharmacologically induced
    long QT syndrome type 1.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual
    International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference,
    January 1, 2009, 4520–22.

  * Idriss, S. F., W. Krassowska Neu, V. Varadarajan, T. Antonijevic, S. S.
    Gilani, and J. M. Starobin. “Feasibility of non-invasive determination of
    the stability of propagation reserve in patients.” Computing in Cardiology
    39 (December 1, 2012): 353–56.
  * Cranford, Jonathan P., Brian J. Kim, and Wanda Krassowska Neu. “Asymptotic
    model of electrical stimulation of nerve fibers.” Medical & Biological
    Engineering & Computing 50, no. 3 (March 2012): 243–51.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11517-012-0870-3.
  * Neu, W. K., and J. C. Neu. “Theory of electroporation,” December 1, 2009,
    133–61. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-79403-7_7.
  * Dobrovolny, H. M., C. M. Berger, N. H. Brown, W. K. Neu, and D. J.
    Gauthier. “Spatial heterogeneity of restitution properties and the onset
    of alternans.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual International
    Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Ieee
    Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference, December 1, 2009,
    4186–89.
  * “Variability of action potential duration in pharmacologically induced
    long QT syndrome type 1.” Conference Proceedings : ... Annual
    International Conference of the Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology
    Society. Ieee Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. Conference,
    January 1, 2009, 4520–22.

## News from Duke BME

April 14, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Integrated Design Challenge Restores Balance to the Force

March 28, 2023 | **_Duke Institute for Brain Sciences_**

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 20, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

View all news

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

