Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# William Paul Segars

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Associate Professor in Radiology

Our current research involves the use of computer-generated phantoms and
simulation techniques to investigate and optimize medical imaging systems and
methods. Medical imaging simulation involves virtual experiments carried out
entirely on the computer using computational models for the patients as well
as the imaging devices. Simulation is a powerful tool for characterizing,
evaluating, and optimizing medical imaging systems. A vital aspect of
simulation is to have realistic models of the subject's anatomy as well as
accurate models for the physics of the imaging process. Without this, the
results of the simulation may not be indicative of what would occur in actual
clinical studies and would, therefore, have limited practical value. We are
leading the development of realistic simulation tools for use toward human and
small animal imaging research.  
  
These tools have a wide variety of applications in many different imaging
modalities to investigate the effects of anatomical, physiological, physical,
and instrumentational factors on medical imaging and to research new image
acquisition strategies, image processing and reconstruction methods, and image
visualization and interpretation techniques. We are currently applying them to
the field of x-ray CT. The motivation for this work is the lack of
sufficiently rigorous methods for optimizing the image quality and radiation
dose in x-ray CT to the clinical needs of a given procedure. The danger of
unnecessary radiation exposure from CT applications, especially for
pediatrics, is just now being addressed. Optimization is essential in order
for new and emerging CT applications to be truly useful and not represent a
danger to the patient. Given the relatively high radiation doses required of
current CT systems, thorough optimization is unlikely to ever be done in live
patients. It would be prohibitively expensive to fabricate physical phantoms
to simulate a realistic range of patient sizes and clinical needs especially
when physiologic motion needs to be considered. The only practical approach to
the optimization problem is through the use of realistic computer simulation
tools developed in our work.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Associate Professor in Radiology

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** Hock Plaza Suite 302, 2424 Erwin Road, Durham, NC
    27705
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 684-1473
  * **Email Address:** paul.segars@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Google Scholar

## Education

  * Ph.D. University of North Carolina - Chapel Hill, 2001

## Courses Taught

  * BME 791: Graduate Independent Study
  * BME 792: Continuation of Graduate Independent Study

## In the News

  * Artemis Launches With Two Duke Experiments (Nov 16, 2022)
  * Meet Helga and Zohar, Duke's Space Pioneers (Sep 7, 2022 | Pratt School of
    Engi…

## Representative Publications

  * Gonzales, Matthew J., Gregory Sturgeon, Adarsh Krishnamurthy, Johan Hake,
    René Jonas, Paul Stark, Wouter-Jan Rappel, et al. “A three-dimensional
    finite element model of human atrial anatomy: new methods for cubic
    Hermite meshes with extraordinary vertices.” Med Image Anal 17, no. 5
    (July 2013): 525–37. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.media.2013.03.005.
  * Hsu, Christina M. L., Mark L. Palmeri, W Paul Segars, Alexander I. Veress,
    and James T. Dobbins. “Generation of a suite of 3D computer-generated
    breast phantoms from a limited set of human subject data.” Med Phys 40,
    no. 4 (April 2013): 043703. https://doi.org/10.1118/1.4794924.
  * Segars, W. P., Jason Bond, Jack Frush, Sylvia Hon, Chris Eckersley,
    Cameron H. Williams, Jianqiao Feng, et al. “Population of anatomically
    variable 4D XCAT adult phantoms for imaging research and optimization.”
    Med Phys 40, no. 4 (April 2013): 043701.
    https://doi.org/10.1118/1.4794178.
  * Li, Xiang, Ehsan Samei, Cameron H. Williams, W Paul Segars, Daniel J.
    Tward, Michael I. Miller, J Tilak Ratnanather, Erik K. Paulson, and Donald
    P. Frush. “Effects of protocol and obesity on dose conversion factors in
    adult body CT.” Med Phys 39, no. 11 (November 2012): 6550–71.
    https://doi.org/10.1118/1.4754584.
  * Zhang, Yakun, Xiang Li, W Paul Segars, and Ehsan Samei. “Organ doses,
    effective doses, and risk indices in adult CT: comparison of four types of
    reference phantoms across different examination protocols.” Med Phys 39,
    no. 6 (June 2012): 3404–23. https://doi.org/10.1118/1.4718710.
  * Hsu, Christina M. L., Mark L. Palmeri, W Paul Segars, Alexander I. Veress,
    and James T. Dobbins. “An analysis of the mechanical parameters used for
    finite element compression of a high-resolution 3D breast phantom.” Med
    Phys 38, no. 10 (October 2011): 5756–70.
    https://doi.org/10.1118/1.3637500.
  * Veress, Alexander I., W Paul Segars, Benjamin M. W. Tsui, and Grant T.
    Gullberg. “Incorporation of a left ventricle finite element model defining
    infarction into the XCAT imaging phantom.” Ieee Trans Med Imaging 30, no.
    4 (April 2011): 915–27. https://doi.org/10.1109/TMI.2010.2089801.
  * Li, Xiang, Ehsan Samei, W Paul Segars, Gregory M. Sturgeon, James G.
    Colsher, Greta Toncheva, Terry T. Yoshizumi, and Donald P. Frush.
    “Patient-specific radiation dose and cancer risk estimation in CT: part
    II. Application to patients.” Med Phys 38, no. 1 (January 2011): 408–19.
    https://doi.org/10.1118/1.3515864.
  * Li, Xiang, Ehsan Samei, W Paul Segars, Gregory M. Sturgeon, James G.
    Colsher, Greta Toncheva, Terry T. Yoshizumi, and Donald P. Frush.
    “Patient-specific radiation dose and cancer risk estimation in CT: part I.
    development and validation of a Monte Carlo program.” Med Phys 38, no. 1
    (January 2011): 397–407. https://doi.org/10.1118/1.3515839.
  * Tward, Daniel J., Can Ceritoglu, Anthony Kolasny, Gregory M. Sturgeon, W
    Paul Segars, Michael I. Miller, and J Tilak Ratnanather. “Patient Specific
    Dosimetry Phantoms Using Multichannel LDDMM of the Whole Body.” Int J
    Biomed Imaging 2011 (2011): 481064. https://doi.org/10.1155/2011/481064.
  * Segars, W. P., G. Sturgeon, S. Mendonca, Jason Grimes, and B. M. W. Tsui.
    “4D XCAT phantom for multimodality imaging research.” Med Phys 37, no. 9
    (September 2010): 4902–15. https://doi.org/10.1118/1.3480985.

## News from Duke BME

April 14, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Integrated Design Challenge Restores Balance to the Force

March 28, 2023 | **_Duke Institute for Brain Sciences_**

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 20, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

View all news

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

