Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# William M. Reichert

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Professor Emeritus of Biomedical Engineering

Adjunct Professor of Biomedical Sciences, Makerere University, Kampala, Uganda
(pending)  
Director of the Duke-Makerere BME Partnership  
  
Dr. Reichert's research interests have included biosensors, protein mediated
cell adhesion, wound healing, and biocompatibilty. Dr. Reichert was the first
member of the engineering faculty to receive the Clemson Award from the
Society for Biomaterials (there have since been three others) and elected as a
Fellow of the International Union of Societies for Biomaterials Science and
Engineering and the American Council on Education. He was also elected as a
Fellow of the American Institute of Medical and Biological Engineering and the
Biomedical Engineering Society. Dr. Reichert also received recognition for his
student mentoring, especially in the area of diversity. The drivers of his
career were more than 30 years of uninterrupted NIH support from six different
institutes, sustained support from the Medtronic Corporation, and the
dedication and brilliance of numerous undergraduate, graduate, postdoc, staff
and faculty colleagues. But life moves on.  
  
Dr. Reichert spent the 2014-15 academic year as a Fulbright Scholar (also a
school of engineering first) in the fledgling BME program at Makerere
University in Kampala, Uganda where he taught six classes in two semesters and
conducted a major curriculum revision to increase engineering content. This
exhilarating (and exhausting) experience transformed Dr. Reichert’s
professional priorities from domestic biomedical research to building BME
capacity at Makerere University and in Uganda. With generous funding from the
Duke BME Department, Duke University Provost’s Office, the Duke Global Health
Institute, the Pratt School of Engineering, and the Duke Africa Initiative,
Dr. Reichert launched the Duke-Makerere BME Partnership to accelerate the
development of biomedical engineering in Uganda. The Partnership consists of
three components.  
  
 **Undergraduate Education.** Currently there are two initiatives. In the fall
semester BME525 Biomedical Materials and Artificial Organs is taught to both
Duke and Makerere students by broadcasting lectures recorded at Duke to
students in Uganda. The students take the same exams, are assigned the same
readings, and conduct similar group projects. Real time interaction between
the instructor and the Makerere students is accomplished by weekly Skype
sessions. The Duke students are encouraged to incorporate some aspect of the
Uganda circumstance in their projects. In the spring term Duke offers a class
BME590 Transcontinental Design for Uganda where a limited number of Duke and
Makerere students participate in mutual design activities to create solutions
to healthcare issues in Uganda. This class also includes an option for the
Duke students to travel to Uganda during their spring break to meet with and
interact with their Makerere design partners. Travel scholarships are provided
by the Partnership predicated on financial need.  
  
 **Master’s Education.** Receiving a Master’s degree is a significant step in
the professional development of aspiring academics and entrepreneurs In
Uganda. Starting in August 2016 the Partnership will be bring two Ugandans
with undergraduate BME degrees or a related field to Durham to join Duke BME
Master’s Program. A key component of student selection is performance in
BME525 and BME590. These students will spend the first two semesters taking
BME classes at Duke and also defining their dissertation topics. During the
following summer the students will transition back to Makerere for their third
and final semester where they complete their dissertation work and possibly
take a class. Dr. Reichert will travel to Uganda to join the Makerere faculty
members for the dissertation defense, while the other Duke committee members
will attend via Skype. All educational and living expenses will be paid by the
Partnership except for living expenses while the students are back in Uganda.  
  
 **Doctoral Training.** Unlike the Bachelor’s or Master’s degree, the PhD
degree is an immersive research experience. Admission decisions to top science
and engineering PhD programs are largely predicated upon evidence of a keen
aptitude and substantial commitment to research. Making this determination
with non-traditional candidates can be difficult, especially when in-person
interviews are not possible. The Duke-Makerere BME Partnership provides an
excellent opportunity for the Duke faculty to see the Uganda Master’s students
up close and personal. The students that perform at a high level in their Duke
classes and on their dissertation projects, and who are committed to pursuing
the PhD, will be invited to apply to the Duke BME PhD program as a regular
international student.  
  

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor Emeritus of Biomedical Engineering
  * Theo Pilkington Distinguished Professor Emeritus of Biomedical Engineering

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 1425 CIEMAS, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5356
  * **Email Address:** reichert@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Biomaterials Tutorials
    * Duke-Makerere BME Partnership

## Education

  * B.A. Gustavus Adolphus College, 1975
  * M.S. University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, 1980
  * Ph.D. University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, 1982

## Research Interests

Biosensors, protein mediated cell adhesion, and wound healing.

## In the News

  * Engineering a New Curriculum in Uganda (Jul 15, 2015)

## Representative Publications

  * Ssekitoleko, Robert T., Solomon Oshabaheebwa, Ian G. Munabi, Martha S.
    Tusabe, C. Namayega, Beryl A. Ngabirano, Brian Matovu, Julius Mugaga,
    William M. Reichert, and Moses L. Joloba. “The role of medical equipment
    in the spread of nosocomial infections: a cross-sectional study in four
    tertiary public health facilities in Uganda.” Bmc Public Health 20, no. 1
    (October 2020): 1561. https://doi.org/10.1186/s12889-020-09662-w.
  * Diaz Quiroz, Juan Felipe, Patricia Diaz Rodriguez, Josh D. Erndt-Marino,
    Viviana Guiza, Bailey Balouch, Tyler Graf, William M. Reichert, Brooke
    Russell, Magnus Höök, and Mariah S. Hahn. “Collagen-Mimetic Proteins with
    Tunable Integrin Binding Sites for Vascular Graft Coatings.” Acs
    Biomaterials Science & Engineering 4, no. 8 (August 2018): 2934–42.
    https://doi.org/10.1021/acsbiomaterials.8b00070.
  * Ploss, Brittany, Tania S. Douglas, Matthew Glucksberg, Elsie Effah
    Kaufmann, Robert A. Malkin, Janet McGrath, Theresa Mkandawire, et al.
    “Part II: U.S.-Sub-Saharan Africa Educational Partnerships for Medical
    Device Design.” Annals of Biomedical Engineering 45, no. 11 (November
    2017): 2489–93. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10439-017-1898-1.
  * Ploss, Brittany, and William Reichert. “Part I. The Emergence of Degree-
    Granting Biomedical Engineering Programs in Sub-Saharan Africa.” Annals of
    Biomedical Engineering 45, no. 10 (October 2017): 2265–68.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s10439-017-1897-2.
  * Munoz-Pinto, Dany J., Josh D. Erndt-Marino, Silvia M. Becerra-Bayona,
    Viviana R. Guiza-Arguello, Satyavrata Samavedi, Sarah Malmut, William M.
    Reichert, Brooke Russell, Magnus Höök, and Mariah S. Hahn. “Evaluation of
    late outgrowth endothelial progenitor cell and umbilical vein endothelial
    cell responses to thromboresistant collagen-mimetic hydrogels.” Journal of
    Biomedical Materials Research. Part A 105, no. 6 (June 2017): 1712–24.
    https://doi.org/10.1002/jbm.a.36045.

## News from Duke BME

April 14, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Integrated Design Challenge Restores Balance to the Force

March 28, 2023 | **_Duke Institute for Brain Sciences_**

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 20, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

View all news

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

