Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# Innovations in Remote Learning

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Undergraduate
  3. Students

Labs@Home: Adapting to the challenges of COVID-19 meant figuring out how to
get electrical engineering hardware into the hands of students

__

"As the fall semester approached, every possible iteration of in-person,
virtual or hybrid lab experience was on the table. When it became clear that
holding in-person labs would not be possible with so many of our key
undergraduate teaching assistants being off-campus, we pivoted quickly to
online remote laboratories using custom laboratory kits."

_—Kip Coonley, ECE Undergraduate Lab Manager_

Students in **6** courses

  * ECE 110 - Fundamentals of Electrical & Computer Engineering
  * ECE 230 - Microelectronic Devices and Circuits
  * ECE 330 - Fundamentals of Microelectronic Circuits
  * ECE 350 - Digital Systems
  * ECE 349 - Embedded Systems
  * ECE 559 - Advanced Digital System Design

Received  
231  
kits

Containing  
nearly  
17K  
parts

&

weighing  
838  
lbs total  

They went to **9** countries

on **4** continents

## RoundTable: Labs@Home kits

The kits that Duke ECE prepared and shipped to students included items like
Arduino boards, breadboards, resistors, capacitors, transformers, a suite of
sensors, and even screwdrivers. Test and measurement equipment included
handheld multimeters with temperature probes and software-based oscilloscopes
and function generators.

Labs were kept small (7-8 students each) in order to give a low TA-to-student
ratio and to encourage student interaction, which resulted in great lab
attendance. The low ratios will also allow the department to meet target
classroom capacities when the labs resume on campus.

So, how did the whole idea go over? Were the kits a success? Duke ECE
Undergraduate Lab Manager Kip Coonley held a roundtable with two TAs (Chloe
White ECE '22 and Franklin Boampong ECE/CS '22) to find out.

**Kip Coonley**  
ECE Undergraduate  
Lab Manager

**Chloe White**  
ECE '22

**Franklin Boampong**  
ECE/CS '22

**Coonley:** Preparing these kits was a logistical challenge within the
department—we've never been involved in high-volume shipping before! What was
it like getting your kits?

**Boampong:** Because I was close to campus, I selected the option of going to
the lab to pick up my kit. When it was ready for pickup, I got an email, and
took a bus over to campus. I found my name, found my kit, and noted that I
would need to take good care of the equipment because it would have to be
returned later. It was a very streamlined process, very convenient.

**White:** My kit was mailed to me. The staff emailed and asked for the
address to which I wanted the kit shipped. Two days before the first lab, I
found a giant FedEx box on my bed, and it was my lab kit! I was thrilled that
it arrived before labs began, and that was the case with almost everyone in my
lab section. It was so convenient—I didn't have to do anything but give my
address.

**Coonley** : Full credit to the ECE staffers who made the process seem so
simple! Chris Bingham led the charge on ordering, organizing, packaging and
sending out all of the kits to students so that they could have them before
labs started this semester. The logistics and operations involved in that
effort took over 6 weeks. Then Dina Khalilova prepared all the shipping
labels, both domestic and international, and Ellen Currin supported FedEx
tracking and delivery. It was truly a team effort. So what were your initial
reactions to the kits?

**Boampong:** My package contained everything I needed for the whole semester.
In a normal semester, I might go into a lab and use an oscilloscope once a
week. Now I have an oscilloscope every day, and I can use it to work on
personal projects. Having a lab kit at home helps me explore more than I would
on campus. If I have free time, I can play around. I really enjoy it.

> "The lab kits are honestly just super cool."
>
> Chloe White, ECE '22

**White:** I second all of that. The lab kits are honestly just super cool.
It's cool to have all this equipment around and available. It's a great
resource to have in your house for explaining concepts to other people. And I
was very thrilled to find the miniature screwdriver set just as I needed it.

**Coonley:** That's great feedback. I'm personally really excited about what's
going to come from this experiment in the long term. When you have in-person
labs and partners, it's really easy to rely on one person to handle coding and
the other to troubleshoot hardware. But now everyone has to code and everyone
has to work with hardware. In the spring, when everything went online, our ECE
students became really adept at coding. In the fall, when we had more time to
prepare, we wanted to put something in students' hands so they could get that
physical, haptic feedback. Last semester we got a cohort of great coders and
this semester I think we'll get a cohort of great makers and tinkerers.

> "Last semester we got a cohort of great coders and this semester I think
> we'll get a cohort of great makers and tinkerers."
>
> Kip Coonley, ECE Undergraduate lab manager

**Boampong:** During my time in ECE 110 I was more interested in the software
side of things. Now that I'm getting more experience with hardware, I'm
excited about hardware, too.

**Coonley:** I think that a lot of what we're learning now, we'll incorporate
into future iterations of our labs—so that students might, for example,
complete pre-labs in hardware and come to labs more prepared.

**Boampong:** I think that would be fun.

**Coonley:** We shipped these lab kits to Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, India,
Japan, South Korea, England and the U.S. Can you guess which was the most
difficult to get a kit to?

**Boampong:** I'd guess China, because of trade laws, coronavirus...

**Coonley:** That's what I thought, also.

**White:** But if it was the obvious answer, you wouldn't ask! Was it Brazil?
Canada?

**Coonley:** It was Canada! Customs stipulations between the U.S. and Canada
are the most stringent. Getting electronics, in particular, out of the country
. . . the parts in the kits tend to look like something that might be
explosives, so it was very challenging. The poor students in Canada had to
wait an extra week or longer to get their kits.

## Undergraduate Contact

### Lisa Gresham Huettel

Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School Professor of the Practice of Electrical and
Computer Engineering

__919-660-5237

__lisa.huettel@duke.edu

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

