

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2016

# Meet Pratt's Dean Bellamkonda

February 12, 2016

Ravi Bellamkonda became new Vinik Dean of Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering
on August 1, 2016. Previously chair of the Wallace H. Coulter Department of
Biomedical Engineering at Georgia Institute of Technology and Emory
University, Bellamkonda was appointed in January after an international
search.

Previously chair of the Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical
Engineering at Georgia Institute of Technology and Emory University,
Bellamkonda was appointed in January after an international search, and cited
by Duke’s President Richard Brodhead for his “outstanding personal
accomplishment and visionary leadership.” [Read Duke news release]

We chatted with Bellamkonda in spring 2016 about his perspectives on Pratt and
hopes for the future of Duke Engineering.

**Q. What attracted you to the job as engineering dean at Duke?  
**

Well, I have a very good job right now, so I was not actively looking to move.
In fact I engaged in the search because it was Duke—it’s such a special place.
Pratt is a great engineering school that’s set in a comprehensive research
university, with strong schools like Medicine, Trinity, Fuqua, Nicholas, and
others. If you look at the challenges the world is facing in areas like
energy, the environment, health and transportation, the solutions to these
challenges all have a technological component at their heart, but they are not
technical challenges alone--policy, economics and politics all need to come
together as well. So the idea that our faculty and students can take on these
challenges and work collaboratively to change the world within the context of
a very strong university really attracted me. Duke also has a reputation for
being entrepreneurial and forward-thinking, with a dynamism and flexibility to
reach a little further and not just play it safe. I like that it has a culture
of not being afraid to take risks to try to solve problems.

## Ravi Bellamkonda

  * **B.Eng.** in biomedical engineering, College of Engineering, Osmania
    University (India)
  * **Ph.D.** in medical science and biomaterials, Brown University
  * **Research focus:** Neurological biomaterials and cancer therapeutics
  * **Selected honors:** Clemson Award for Applied Research (Society for
    Biomaterials), EUREKA award (National Cancer Institute), CAREER award
    (National Science Foundation), and best professor award (Georgia Tech BME
    students)
  * **Family:** Married to Lalita Kaligotla; two children, son Mihir (16) and
    daughter Ameya (12)
  * **Hobbies:** Tennis, keeping up with current events, reading (“Mostly
    young adult fiction my children recommend to me—we’re big fans of Harry
    Potter and The Bartimaeus Trilogy for instance!”)

Read full bio

**Q. During the interview process you spoke with dozens of leaders and faculty
from Pratt and across Duke. Based on those conversations, do you have a sense
of what your first priorities will be?**

My first priority will be to spend time listening. The search process engaged
many people but it was just a small cross-section of the whole, so I want to
meet with faculty, staff, students, alumni and partners in various programs
and at various levels to learn more.

Based on my preliminary engagement, I do think we have two special
opportunities that I’d like to explore in consultation with the faculty.

One is clearly defining certain areas of research in which we can be
absolutely world-class, the best in the country and the world. I’m a
biomedical engineer and of course Duke BME is very well-known, but I also know
that Pratt is strong in several other areas, like materials science and
engineering, quantum computing, environment and big data, to name just a few
examples. I think focusing on areas where we can truly lead—in research, in
startup generation, in graduate programs and interdisciplinary
partnerships—that’s how we’ll really make a difference. This is not to say we
don’t value what each of our faculty does. Articulation of our strengths will
benefit everyone, and increase the likelihood that we build even more
strengths.

On the education side, there are special opportunities for us to think about
what it will mean to be an engineer 20 years from now. We’re moving into a
world where the most important thing is not just mastering some technical
content, but mastering how to extract knowledge from plain information.
Technical content is increasingly freely available, and engineering talent is
coming from all over the world, so we need to ask ourselves “What are the
characteristics of a Duke engineer that set her or him apart and make them
sought-after talent?”

In my opinion, besides technical mastery, being multidimensional is important.
The ability to solve complex problems with incomplete information, work in
diverse teams, communicate with felicity—we think of these as soft skills, but
they are the skills that will separate the technically competent from the
engineering leaders that Duke nurtures. I think Duke already does an excellent
job of this with programs like Bass Connections, Grand Challenge Scholars, and
entrepreneurship and “maker” opportunities, but I’d like us to think
deliberately about ways to continue to encourage deep, student-driven learning
from the very beginning of the student experience.

In graduate education, I think Pratt has done a great job enabling students to
gain professional experience through programs such as PhD Plus. Only one in
eight PhD students actually goes on to an academic career, so providing the
opportunity for students to engage in entrepreneurial activity and internships
that will give them true experience in the business or government or non-
profit worlds is increasingly important. At the end of the day we’d like to
equip our students to become thought leaders, and help build in them a sense
of fearlessness in tackling complex challenges.

**Q. How about priorities beyond the core areas of education and research?**

My other priorities are really about fostering relationships, community
engagement and philanthropy to support our education and research missions.
Neither Pratt nor Duke would be as special as they are without the generous
support of alumni and well-wishers. Philanthropy in many ways is the magic
ingredient, the transformative enabler that allows Pratt and Duke to leap
ahead and lead. I also hope to connect with alumni, parents, industry partners
and the Durham community to see how we can best engage them, because their
ideas and networks and resources are critical to our success.

I’d also like to explore ways to enhance ties between Pratt and other Duke
schools and programs to continue building partnerships that will help us all
rise. And there are a few structural but important things we need to put into
place to enable our goals. Appropriate research and learning spaces are
critical for Pratt to realize its full potential, for instance.

So, the financial strength of Pratt is not the goal, but it is a key enabler
of our ability to do transformative research, and provide the best experience
to our students--who represent the best talent in the world--so they can in
turn build the kind of world you and I would be proud to live in.

**Q. You’ve had some interesting leadership experiences besides your role as
department chair—serving as the president of the American Institute for
Medical and Biological Engineering (AIMBE) and as associate vice president for
research at Georgia Tech, and founding three start-up companies. How do you
think those experiences have influenced you?**

My broad leadership experiences have given me the opportunity to recognize
what makes our wonderful country an innovator and leader. It’s not just the
academic institutions we have; it’s the whole ecosystem of federal funding,
peer review, philanthropic support and industry innovation. This ecosystem can
hum and come together synergistically when there is a common vision and
purpose, and when we in academia view these other elements as partners and put
in place mechanisms for our faculty and students to interact with industry and
other partners more easily, with fewer hurdles.

**Q. How would you describe your leadership style?**

Well, you might want to ask the wonderful people I work with [laughs]! The
simplest way to capture my style is to say that I like to enable the best in
each of us.

I’d like us to collectively create an environment that is inspiring and
meaningful, so that all of us feel like we are part of a noble enterprise
trying to find the truth about something—how to address an environmental
problem or how to cure cancer or discovering something fundamental that wasn’t
known before.

An important part of that is making sure that everyone feels valued for the
different perspectives and backgrounds they bring. I know Duke and Pratt are
actively working to foster diversity and inclusion, and that is something I
care deeply about. It has been a high priority for me at Georgia Tech and
Emory and will be a high priority for me at Pratt. It’s important to not only
recruit and retain faculty and students who are more representative of our
diverse society, but also to honestly ask ourselves whether we are really
doing all we can to ensure the success of every individual we already have
here as a part of the Pratt family.

I’d like Pratt and Duke to be a destination that attracts the best, brightest,
most diverse faculty, students and staff because it becomes widely known that
all of Duke will root for each person’s success. I personally would like to
enable this journey by helping to create the culture, the infrastructure, the
resources and reward systems that will allow our faculty, students and staff
to feel free to be creative, and be in touch with our love of engineering and
science, of teaching, learning, scholarship and service, so we can make a
difference in the world.

**Q. Anything else you’d like to say?**

Just that it’s an honor to be named dean of Pratt. It’s a wonderful
institution with a very bright future, and I’m looking forward to working as
hard as I can and to the best of my ability to facilitate our journey to
define what the future of engineering is going to be. I believe Pratt has the
opportunity to lead, and I am confident we will!

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2016

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

