

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2016

# Demystifying Big Data

April 27, 2016 | Lucy Zhang

Galen Reeves emphasizes the significance of a technical perspective on
information

How much information does one need to answer a question reliably? The
mathematical tools used to understand the tradeoffs between data and
uncertainty can be found in the fields of engineering, signal processing,
information theory and statistics.

Galen Reeves, an assistant professor with joint appointments in the Department
of Electrical and Computer Engineering and the Department of Statistical
Science, emphasizes the significance of a technical perspective on
information.

“Although the early applications of information theory were focused on signal
processing and communication applications, the mathematical foundations apply
much more broadly to problems in data analysis and statistical inference,”
says Reeves. “So a lot of the analysis is, in a sense, a mathematical
understanding of what it means to communicate.”

## Digging into Data

Many of the most important scientific and technological advances of the next
several decades will follow from our ability to collect, understand and
communicate massive amounts of data. The amount of data in the modern day has
made the ability to understand and analyze invaluable. And according to
Reeves, the vast amounts of information have created critical and complex
questions.

“Data is powerful,” says Reeves. “The information in medical data could
greatly improve medicine. But how do you get it out, and what happens if you
make a mistake? If you have the right data but conduct the wrong analysis, you
can make the wrong conclusions. And that can result in a detrimental outcome."

Reeves describes the study of information models at the “boundary” between two
directions—one mathematical and the other applied. One type of model closely
resembles reality and is difficult to draw conclusions from. The other
contains more mathematical abstractions and is easier to study. While the
latter is not necessarily clear in how it relates to the real world, it
enables drawing deep, interesting conclusions.

## Phase Transitions

High-dimensional statistical inference problems sometimes exhibit phase
transitions, in which a small change in information leads to large changes in
measures of uncertainty (e.g. probability of error or posterior variance). The
study of where and why these phase transitions occur provides new ways to
characterize problems and to analyze tradeoffs between information,
computation and structure. Such an understanding can lead to new ways of
thinking and new solutions.

For example, social networks follow this “phase transition” behavior. When
observing which celebrities, politicians and other notable figures influence
one another, the data is initially chaotic. Lines of influence connect a few
figures but portray nothing clear about the relationships as a whole. But with
a small bit of information, key players can suddenly be identified.

The significance of these phase transitions extends into every area that
entails massive amounts of data. “How do you understand these phase
transitions?” asks Reeves.

“How do you use them to inform algorithms used in a Google search or in
solving some other basic problems?"

## Blessings and Curses

Analyzing the vast quantities of data involved with these "phase transitions"
is not always possible with today’s computers. In his research, Reeves looked
at the computational limitations of computers, which are still unable to
accomplish tasks that “blow up exponentially in complexity.” Because there is
an insufficient amount of computing power in the world to check all possible
states, statisticians rely on algorithms and suboptimal searches to be
computationally efficient.

Reeves says this phenomenon is the “curse of dimensionality.” Originally
coined by Richard Bellman, the phrase refers to how the number of possible
states grows exponentially with known parameters, and how data can “blow up”
to a million unknown values with a million observed variables.

On the other hand, there is also the “blessing of dimensionality.” As data is
scaled up, the number of random interactions becomes so large that the
macroscopic behavior becomes predictable and nonrandom.

“The analysis can become beautiful when the data are large and complex,”
Reeves said. “But much of this math cannot be brute forced via numerical
simulation. Instead, one sometimes needs to go back to the pencil and paper to
understand the mathematical properties of data.”

_Lucy Zhang is a freshman double majoring in electrical and computer
engineering and computer science._

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2016

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

