

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2016

# From Tiny Details to Big Picture

April 27, 2016 | Kyle Baer

The new face of Civil & Environmental Engineering at Duke: Mark Wiesner, PhD,
CEE department chair & CEINT director

_The James L. Meriam Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Wiesner
began his studies in the liberal arts and was originally a musician. He still
plays bass with local blues and jazz groups as well as community orchestras.
In 2015, Wiesner was also inducted into the National Academy of Engineering,
among the highest professional honors for engineers._

When asked what the role of a department head is at a major research
university like Duke, Mark Wiesner has a definitive answer—facilitator.

"Making the resources we have available to the faculty and students, and
allowing the faculty to do their jobs," says Wiesner, chair of the civil and
environmental engineering department at Duke, who seems to know what he's
talking about. "I've always been lucky enough to have had great chairs here."

Wiesner is perhaps best known as the director of the Center for the
Environmental Implications of NanoTechnology (CEINT), an inter-university
research institute he helped found here at Duke. But as of this past July,
Wiesner holds another major position within the Blue Devil community: he
succeeded John Albertson as the chair of Pratt's Department of Civil &
Environmental Engineering. Under Albertson, the department enjoyed a 50
percent increase in new awards for research and rose considerably in the U.S.
News rankings of environmental engineering programs.

As I sit down in his Hudson Hall office for the first time, Wiesner apologizes
for his jet lag—he’s just returned from a trip to China, where he’ll be again
next week before traveling to Vienna. (The life of an internationally awarded
researcher, unsurprisingly, involves little rest.) The eager freshman in me
has a million questions for him, but I force myself to relax. We’ll take it
from the beginning, I decide, with CEINT.

Each word measured and deliberate, Wiesner starts to tell his story.

**The Center for the Environmental Implications of NanoTechnology**

While researching water treatment technology at Rice University, Wiesner first
began to investigate nanomaterials—particulates billionths of a meter in size.
Modern instrumentation offers today’s scientists unprecedented access to the
nano-world, which, he recalls, “we didn’t appreciate, and certainly couldn’t
quantify…thirty years ago.” Wiesner started working with nanotechnology in
membrane transport systems, but the scope of his interest quickly broadened.

“Like any good environmental scientist, when you start using new materials,
you start to ask questions [about] the environmental implications of these
materials,” he recounts. With new abilities to track and understand the
movement of nanoparticles through systems, researchers were realizing that
answers to these questions were suddenly within reach.

Growing international interest in nanomaterials displayed that the potential
effects and applications of the “nano-enabled economy” were poorly understood.
As director of Rice’s Energy & Environmental Systems Institute, Wiesner
partnered with a group that included Nobel Laureate Richard Smalley and co-
authored a proposal to the National Science Foundation. Their goal was to
create a center to study nanotechnology in environmental and biological
engineering; Wiesner authored the environmental component, while Jennifer
West, now a Duke BME faculty member, led the bioengineering portion.

“There’s a huge need for information [about nanomaterials] that could help
guide regulations. That’s potentially going to have an impact on international
commerce [and] the way goods move across borders,” Wiesner explains.

Nevertheless, the proposal stalled, with administrators unable to agree on how
the proposed institute would focus their efforts. Many were cold to the idea
of studying nanomaterials’ environmental consequences, which Wiesner insisted
should be included in the proposal. “Looking at it before it possibly becomes
a problem,” he explains, is imperative.

When Wiesner began working at Duke in 2006, he found renewed enthusiasm toward
the idea of an institute explicitly studying the implications of
nanomaterials, both artificial and natural, on the environment. With support
from Congress, a group of researchers from seven universities founded the
Center for the Environmental Implications of Nano Technology with Wiesner as
director. CEINT, pronounced ‘saint,’ is headquartered at Duke—which, he says,
is no accident.

“This is just the perfect place for ‘doing’ environment because there’s every
element,” Wiesner enumerates, firing off a list of examples: environmental  
economics, toxicology, policy, chemistry, law and engineering.

These resources enable CEINT to “look at every aspect of [nanotechnology’s]
implications”—for instance, studying nanomaterials’ effects on organisms at a
cellular level. “Plants take up metals, as it turns out, as particles in
additions to ions—we didn’t know that,” he tells me. “What might those
particles bring along with them? Things can stick to particles.”

CEINT also studies nanotech’s ecosystem-level effects. “We’ve got this whole
facility out in the Duke forest, the mesocosms (pictured above), where we can
do controlled releases of nanomaterials to see where they go, how fast they
get there, and who or what they impact along the way,” Wiesner says with a
hint of excitement in his voice. It’s infectious—as he paints me a picture of
CEINT’s self-contained testing environment, I can’t help but to feel similarly
enthusiastic.

Wiesner sees this research directly shaping the development of new
technologies. CEINT’s findings, he says, are essential in “correcting certain
trajectories that are not good and hopefully accelerating trajectories of uses
of nanomaterials that we think are going to have huge benefits.” A big part of
this is organizing their findings into accessible databases like the
NanoInformatics Knowledge Commons (NIKC) as a resource for prospective
nanotech developers.

“If you’re paying attention,” Wiesner quips, “you’ll notice that’s ‘Saint
Nick.’” And indeed, for those creating the nanotechnology of our present and
future, CEINT’s research may indeed be Christmas come early. Understanding
risk is a major part of any engineering or business effort.

“Are nanomaterials the next DDT, the next Freon, or not?” he posits. “Is that
a reasonable question to ask, even? Does it make sense to talk about all
nanomaterials, or should we be talking about categories?”

Nineteen years of research into the nano-world haven’t given us all the
answers yet, but talking to Wiesner, it feels like we’re well on our way.

**CEE at Duke**

The conversation turns in time to his new role as CEE chair (I force myself to
resist geeking out further over the mesocosms). “It’s more of a service  
than a promotion,” Wiesner explains to me: a way of giving back to your
department. Beyond his self-described role as facilitator, this means shaping  
the curriculum to keep up with new developments and remaining competitive.

The interplay between engineering and aesthetics is a particular area Wiesner
would like to see more integrated into teaching. “Environment is aesthetics,
of course, but when you talk about aesthetics in the engineered concept, it
goes all the way to electrical engineers. Steve Jobs and his notion that the
iPhone should be a beautiful thing...that’s a concept we need to develop more
into the curriculum.”

Integrating modern computational tools is another field Wiesner looks to focus
on more. “So much of what was done in the past by cut-and-try...well, you can
calculate these things, all the way down to the nanoscale, and then scale that
up to the entire structure,” he says. Though much of engineering is already
based on such modeling, he believes that we’re capable of far more.

I ask about enrollment; even some Pratt students seem to know relatively
little about CEE, the smallest of the engineering departments. Wiesner thinks
this has to do in part with CEE’s accessibility to students early on. He sees
a single introductory course to each of the degree programs, environmental and
civil, as crucial to promoting early undergraduate involvement. It’s also
important “that we have really engaging capstone-type experiences, as well as
experiences along the way that get into issues like global development and
global health.”

But “most critical,” he tells me, is maintaining a close relationship between
students and faculty. This extends far beyond the classroom. “Collaboration  
is personal,” Wiesner says. “Having a department where students and faculty
get together as friends and colleagues, [where] ideas can easily flow and
networks can easily form—that’s what a department should do. That’s what a
university should do.”

_Kyle Baer a freshman pursuing a degree in civil engineering and a certificate
in architectural engineering._

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2016

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

