Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Engineering in Service to Society PhD Fellowship

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. PhD
  3. Certificates training

PhD Students: Enhance your degree with experience in the policy or nonprofit
sectors

Through generous support from the Lord Foundation, PhD students in the Thomas
Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science at Duke can
apply for funding to support a semester to gain experience in the policy or
nonprofit sectors.

Engineering in Service to Society Fellowships provide financial support as PhD
students explore careers through semester-long internships. Duke MEMS
encourages prospective fellows to identify internships that align with their
research expertise at the international, national, or local level.

Duke is well-located for this program—our campus's proximity to Raleigh, the
capital city of the State of North Carolina, and its location within the
Research Triangle Region offers many possibilities for positions with policy
and nonprofit organizations with state and national impact.

> "Duke MEMS PhD students are outstanding engineers and scientists. We need
> these talented people to help inform governmental policy, especially related
> to technical issues in energy, autonomy, AI, and nanoscience—and to become
> leaders in nonprofits that address critical needs."
>
> **CATE BRINSON** | The Donald M. Alstadt CHAIR, Duke MEMS

## Program Details

  * Applicants must have completed their preliminary exam and coursework, and
    be in good standing
  * An application consists of:
    * CV/resume
    * One-page internship plan, including a statement of its value to future career goals
    * Letter of support from PhD advisor

  * Applications are considered on a rolling basis by the PhD Steering
    Committee
  * To apply, submit the materials listed above to the Duke MEMS Director of
    Graduate Studies in the semester prior to course registration for the
    internship semester
  * Successful applicants will register for ME 758S—tuition and a stipend for
    that period will be paid from Lord Foundation funds

* * *

## Contact US

Email Duke MEMS

* * *

## About the Lord Foundation

In October 2020, following approval by the Board of Trustees, the Department
of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science became the first department at
Duke University to be named in honor of a benefactor.

The Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
recognizes the transformative contributions of the late Thomas Lord, chairman
and CEO of LORD Corporation. The Lord Foundation of North Carolina (LFNC) was
established with $40 million in stock holdings in 1984 to support research,
teaching and programming in engineering and related programs at Duke.

Over 35 years, LFNC generated more than $47 million for a wide variety of
programs and activities at Duke's Pratt School of Engineering.

In 2019, following the sale of LORD Corporation to Parker-Hannifin, Duke and
three other research institutions selected as beneficiaries by Thomas Lord
received a total distribution of over $1 billion through their respective
foundations.

The $261 million allocation to Duke was designated for the university’s
endowment to provide a permanent source of long-term support for science and
technology education and research at the Pratt School of Engineering, as well
as financial aid for undergraduate students across Duke.

In addition, the MEMS department chair position was named to honor of Donald
M. Alstadt, former president of LORD Corporation and a 24-year member of the
Pratt School’s Board of Visitors. Alstadt originally introduced Thomas Lord to
Duke.

Read about the history of the LFNC and Duke »

## PhD Contacts

### Christine Payne

Yoh Family Professor and Director of Graduate Studies

__919-681-2096

__dgs-mems@duke.edu

### Lawrie Virgin

Professor and Associate Director of Graduate Studies

__919-660-5342

__l.virgin@duke.edu

### Michell Tampe

Graduate Studies Program Coordinator

__919-660-5311

__michell.tampe@duke.edu

  * Quick Facts & Statistics
  * More about Student Services & Amenities
  * Meet Engineering PhD Alumni

Browse Online

____

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

