

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2022

# Andrew Waterman: 2022 Distinguished Young Alumni Award

February 17, 2022

Andrew Waterman is chief engineer at SiFive, where he designs high-performance
microprocessors

Andrew Waterman (E’08) never even set foot in North Carolina until he arrived
on Duke’s campus to begin his undergraduate classes. He didn’t need to. He
knew Duke was a great school, and a generous financial aid package made the
decision for him.

Looking for a source of disposable income, Waterman quickly asked John Board,
associate professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer
science, if he could be a teaching assistant even though he was still a
freshman.

To Waterman’s surprise, Board said yes. And even more to his surprise, he
discovered he loved it, and ended up being a teaching assistant nearly every
semester thereafter, sometimes for two classes. By the time he graduated,
Waterman had helped teach nine classes in six semesters.

“Especially in introductory courses, many students don't quite understand why
they're learning the things they're learning,” Waterman said. “And then all of
a sudden it clicks, sometimes palpably. Those moments make it all worth it.”

While Waterman was constantly busy helping to teach students, he received a
world-class education himself, along with some very valuable advice. As one of
the few undergraduates taking a graduate computer architecture course taught
by Dan Sorin, professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer
science, Waterman found himself in a one-on-one chat late in his Duke career.

As Waterman recalls, Sorin asked if he had started looking for jobs. He
hadn’t. Sorin then asked if he had applied to graduate school. He said no to
that too.

“He shook his head a bit as if to imply, ‘Wow, this kid is such a screw-up,’”
Waterman said. “He told me something to the effect of that I had to do
something after graduating, and that I should become a computer architect and
he’d write me a letter of recommendation.”

It was good advice. After earning a Master’s and PhD in computer science from
the University of California – Berkeley, Waterman and his colleagues turned
their attention to instruction-set architecture, which is industry jargon for
the interface between computer hardware and software.

The computing industry, Waterman says, has been revolutionized by open
standards like Ethernet and the C programming language. So he found it vexing
that there was no high-quality open standard in this critical arena. The
existing standards were all either proprietary, expensive or poorly designed.
So Waterman and his colleagues created their own open-source instruction-set
architecture called RISC-V, designed for research and teaching.

“Then something surprising happened,” Waterman said. “Other people started
using it, first slowly and then quickly. Twelve years later, it’s becoming an
industry standard.”

While RISC-V was gaining in popularity, Waterman helped found a company called
SiFive, which designs high-performance microprocessors using the instruction-
set architecture. While the company is still growing, Waterman says that they
already have over 100 customers and have some great processor designs coming
down the pike.

When Waterman thinks about Duke, however, he says it’s not usually the
computer engineering courses that have helped him succeed that occupy his
thoughts. Rather, it’s the casual one-on-one conversations he had with faculty
like the one with Sorin that pushed him down his career path. It’s the bonds
that were forged with his classmates during tenting season while trying to
follow the Byzantine rules that were often chaotically implemented. Or it’s
the practical experiences he picked up while working with an engineering
student group outside of class.

“If you plan on being an engineer after graduation—as you should!—then
consider getting involved in an extracurricular engineering activity,”
Waterman said. “In helping build an autonomous underwater vehicle with my
friends at Duke Robotics, I learned almost everything I know about practical
electronics.”

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2022

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

