

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2022

# Fred Fehsenfeld Jr.: 2020 Distinguished Alumni Award

February 17, 2022

Fred M. Fehsenfeld, Jr. is a third-generation Fehsenfeld family business
leader, currently serving as Chairman of The Heritage Group Holdings Company
Board

According to Fred Fehsenfeld Jr., one of the most instrumental foundations
that Duke built for his career came in the form of an unusual pilot course for
the school called Great Books. Together with only three other students and two
professors, the group read books from some of history’s great thinkers and
discussed the ideas within. The class tackled Machiavelli, Joseph Shumpeter,
Karl Marx and others. There was no place to hide within the class’s unique
discussion framework. For students like Fehsenfeld, Duke’s engineering
curriculum was set apart by both its excellence and rigor in demanding
students to expand their academic experience by requiring full participation
in all that a liberal arts university has to offer.

“This experience lit a fuse in me that grew over the years into a deep
interest in the people side of business,” Fehsenfeld said. “How you develop
people, what motivates them, building incentive systems that actually work,
and learning how to find win-win solutions. I have learned that if incentives
are properly designed up front that things work well with minimal oversight.
The search for this important insight began with the most unusual class I ever
took.”

While the spark may have been unusual, the results speak for themselves. After
earning a Master’s degree in management from the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Fehsenfeld spent a few years working with ConocoPhillips. In 1977,
Fehsenfeld joined his family business and turned around a small, struggling
environmental start-up, which grew into the premier privately held
environmental services company in the U.S.

This challenging period of his career not only built his credibility within
the organization, but also helped shape and develop him to take on more
responsibility. In 1980, he was named CEO of The Heritage Group (THG), which
had sales of $100 million that year and 1,000 employees. Today, THG is a
multibillion-dollar enterprise with 40+ operating companies and 5,000
employees who want to make a difference in advanced materials, specialty
chemicals, environmental services, transportation infrastructure and venture
capital.

“It’s a story about creating an entrepreneurial environment with strong, clear
values, along with a ‘bet’ on young people who surprised even themselves on
what could be accomplished if everyone was rowing in the same direction,”
Fehsenfeld said. “Our family’s legacy from the very beginning has been that
each generation thinks long-term and builds a strong foundation for the next
while successfully passing the torch.”

Fehsenfeld’s focus on integrity and trust and his dedication to tackling big
problems in service to society can all be traced back to Duke Engineering—as
can his love of Duke basketball.

## Lessons in Leadership

Early in his career while working in ConocoPhillips’s corporate headquarters,
Fehsenfeld asked to be transferred into the oil fields of Oklahoma where he
would have an opportunity to develop his engineering skills. His immediate
boss didn’t quite understand, but ultimately supported his request. After all,
there are some things about a business that one can only learn by getting your
boots dirty.

His plans got off to a rocky start, however, when he quickly discovered that
there were a number of longtime employees stationed in Ponca City that
resented his presence very deeply. He found out that he had inadvertently
bypassed a long- standing training program and others had been expecting to
land the job he’d just walked into.

“I had a real challenge on my hands,” Fehsenfeld said. “I was in the pipeline
division, but I didn't really know anything about pipelines. It would have
been easy for them to embarrass me if that’s what they had wanted to do.”

What Fehsenfeld did know about, however, was how the corporate office thought
and operated. He also knew plenty about people.

Empathizing with the struggles of his new coworkers, Fehsenfeld asked to learn
about all of the projects that had been proposed to Corporate and denied.
After whittling the list down to three top priorities, they went to work as a
team and managed to secure green lights where only red ones had existed
before.

According to Fehsenfeld, morale quickly flipped from deeply negative to quite
positive. It was a transformative experience for himself as well.

“I learned that whatever you do, you should do it with humility and empathy
for a given situation,” Fehsenfeld said. “That’s one key to being a good
leader. That, and to make others feel good by giving them credit while taking
none for yourself.”

## Service to Society

Throughout his life and career, Fehsenfeld has been dedicated to making a
difference both professionally and personally in every way he can. Just over
30 years ago, during his honeymoon with his wife Suzie, Fehsenfeld found
himself on a Kenyan safari. While Suzie fell in love with the wildlife, he
fell in love with the people. Together, they decided that Kenya was more than
a vacation and immediately got to work dedicating time, resources and funding
to projects striving to save endangered species, educating communities and
protecting wild spaces.

“In 2011, Suzie co-founded the Mara Elephant Project, or MEP, with eight
rangers in an area where 96 elephants had been poached that year,” Fehsenfeld
said. “Over the past decade, MEP has grown to over 60 rangers, having made
over 430 arrests and seizing 4,845 pounds of ivory. MEP has worked with the
communities that live alongside wildlife providing innovative services that
keep both people, and wildlife safe. Last year, there were zero elephants
poached in that same area.”

While MEP has helped reduce the threat from poaching, Fehsenfeld notes that
other threats such as habitat fragmentation and human wildlife conflict have
increased. Never one to quit, they recently brought on a world-class
scientist, Dr. Jake Wall, to address these growing issues with creative
solutions.

In addition to conservation, the Fehsenfeld family has a personal connection
with a difficult health challenge in Kenya—burn injuries. Burns are a leading
cause of injury for children stemming from the wide use of open-flame fires at
home for cooking, heating and purifying water. Currently, there are no
dedicated children’s burn treatment centers in Kenya. As a result, the family
has teamed up with doctors in Kenya and Indiana to build the first Children’s
Burn Center at a public hospital in the city of Eldoret. The center will break
ground later this year and will be the largest public pediatric burn unit in
sub-Saharan Africa.

“I’ve spent my entire career using creative problem solving to confront
complicated issues,” Fehsenfeld said. “In Kenya, I’m having fun working on
something completely different, trying to make a real difference alongside my
family. Only this time, I get to be the mentor, supporting the next generation
as they navigate complex situations, looking for creative solutions.”

## Bleeding Duke Blue

While building a multibillion-dollar corporation and a growing philanthropic
effort in Kenya, Fehsenfeld has also managed to find time to indulge in his
other favorite pastime—rooting on Blue Devil basketball. It’s helped somewhat
that the team often comes to him. Fehsenfeld lives in Indianapolis, Indiana,
which one could argue is Duke basketball’s home away from home. They won
national titles in the city in 1991, 2010 and 2015. And each time, Fehsenfeld
was on hand not only to cheer the team on, but to host hundreds of diehard
alumni.

While each of these titles have been memorable, none compare to what happened
after the 2010 national championship.

Duke had just defeated Butler, the Indianapolis home team, and Fehsenfeld was
fortunate enough to attend the post- game activities in the dark hours of the
night. The first thing Coach K said, according to Fehsenfeld, was that,
“Butler didn’t lose tonight, college basketball won. It doesn’t get any better
than having two small schools with great academics playing for the national
title.”

This sparked Fehsenfeld’s imagination. What if he could help bring Duke and
Butler together to discuss the business of basketball and best practices? The
idea simmered in the back of his head until he was at a Duke Board of Visitors
meeting five days later.

“A Butler Trustee was there also, and I shared this ‘fresh idea,” Fehsenfeld
recalled. “He got so excited that he insisted I work on it now!” Fehsenfeld
stepped out of the meeting and called Duke Director of Athletics Kevin White
to ask him if he would be willing to help sponsor such a meeting between
Butler and Duke. “Without hesitation he said, ‘We would be honored.’ This is
one of the proudest moments I have had as a Duke Alum.” A six-hour meeting
amongst peers was held at Cameron, and Duke and Butler now have a special
relationship.

Duke Basketball has been a wonderful connector with lifelong friends for
Fehsenfeld, many made during his “spirited” first year. “When Duke makes a
Final Four, it’s been automatic. We all show up, have fun and do our best to
cheer Duke on to victory!” Fehsenfeld said. “Over the years, I have been
fortunate to have developed a friendship with Coach K that is really special
to me.”

Of course, Fehsenfeld has always been ready to answer the phone when Duke has
been the one calling as well. He spent many years on the Pratt Board of
Visitors and has helped be a part of many searches for and transitions of new
deans.

He’s also a constant source of support for the school’s Annual Fund,
maintaining a strong relationship with Judge Carr, Senior Associate Dean for
Development and Alumni Relations.

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2022

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

