

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2022

# In Memory

## Robert S. Raisch E’51

Robert S. Raisch E’51, 91, passed away on February 11, 2021, surrounded by his
family. Born in Detroit, Michigan to Aileen and Albert Raisch, he dreamed of
flying jets and had a deep love of country. He graduated from Cranbrook High
School, Bloomfield Hills, Michigan in 1947 and joined the Holloway V-S program
before attending Duke University to receive his major in mechanical
engineering. He was the student team manager of the Duke basketball team ’47
and ‘48 and a member of the Duke lacrosse team. He was such a proud Blue Devil
and always supported the school any way he could. He was commissioned into the
USMC Reserve in 1951. He served in the Korean War and was twice awarded the
Distinguished Flying Cross for his service in the Marine Fighting Squadron
224. As a civilian, he was the owner of The Supersine Co. for more than 50
years, a sign manufacturing business that he created with his father and later
ran with his daughters.

## James Arthur Cavenaugh, Jr. E’56

James Arthur Cavenaugh, Jr. E’56 died on Tuesday, June 1, 2021. He was born in
Wilmington, North Carolina to the late Elizabeth Grady and James Arthur
Cavenaugh.

He graduated from Goldsboro High School in 1952 and Duke University in 1956
with a BS in mechanical engineering. Upon graduation, Jim was commissioned as
an ensign in the United States Navy and served three years on active duty,
followed by 18 years of reserve duty, retiring with the rank of commander. He
served as commanding officer of three Naval Reserve units in Winston-Salem.

After release from active duty, Jim was employed by Archer Aluminum Division
of RJ Reynolds Tobacco Company and advanced to vice president of manufacturing
of RJR Archer Incorporated, retiring from RJ Reynolds Tobacco Company with 35
years of service. He was a member of Centenary United Methodist Church,
Forsyth Country Club, and the Y-Men’s Club. Jim came from humble beginnings
and worked hard throughout his life to provide opportunities for his family.
He enjoyed traveling the world, fishing, spending time at Ocracoke Island, and
attending Duke basketball and football games.

On September 20, 1958, Jim married the former Patricia True Marshall of
Goldsboro, North Carolina, who preceded him in death on September 30, 2000,
after 42 years of marriage. On December 28, 2002, he married Nell Brame
Parker, who survives him.

Jim is survived by two sons, James Arthur Cavenaugh III (Evan) and Kenneth
Marshall Cavenaugh (Pam), all of Winston-Salem; five grandchildren, Katherine
Hearn Cavenaugh, James Arthur Cavenaugh IV, Catherine Elizabeth Cavenaugh,
Meredith McGuire Cavenaugh, and William Marshall Cavenaugh

Also surviving are Nell’s three daughters, Gwyn Wackerhagen (George) and sons
Joshua and Jim; Tate Leftwich (Bill) and daughters Tate and Jane; and Jennifer
Booker (David) and sons David, Jonathan, and Joshua. He is also survived by a
first cousin, Dr. H. Maxwell Morrison of Southern Pines.

## W. John Swartz E’56

W. John Swartz E’56 died Friday, May 21, at age 86. As he fervently wanted, he
was here at home in Fearrington Village, North Carolina, with me, Dorothy, and
our sons, John C. and Jeff, close by. In the past five years, he had several
serious illnesses, and although he fought to overcome each, this day was long
anticipated. Even so, his absence now hurts badly.

John was born in Hutchinson, Kansas. Following his parents’ lifelong emphasis
on the value of education, he graduated from Duke (BME), George Washington
(JD), and MIT (MBA). He served in the US Marine Corps, followed by a 30-year
career with the Atcheson, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway Company in Chicago,
Illinois, retiring as president of the railroad. His thoughtful decisions in
business and with family and friends were all expressed with wit, generosity
and kind consideration. We are very proud of him.

He believed in the potential goodness of each individual and looked for
rational rather than divine ways to solve mankind’s problems. It was his wish
that rather than be honored at a funeral and/or memorial service, he be
remembered as a humanist.

## Robert W. Anderson E’59

Robert W. Anderson E’59 of Chapel Hill, North Carolina passed away peacefully,
surrounded by family, on October 19, 2021 at Carolina Meadows.

Bob was born in Chicago, Illinois in 1937. He grew up in Chicago and
Kenilworth, Illinois and attended New Trier High School and later graduated
with honors from the Pratt School of Engineering at Duke University in 1959.
While an undergraduate at Duke, he was a member of Sigma Chi Fraternity and
played lacrosse, earning three letters. Following his graduation, he worked in
the oil industry in Nigeria, West Africa for Mobil Oil for a brief period. He
returned to enroll in Northwestern University’s Graduate Engineering Program
where he developed an interest in the newly emerging field of biomedical
engineering. Dr. Anderson received a medical degree from Northwestern
University Medical School in 1964 and an M.B.A. from Northwestern University’s
Kellogg School of Business in 1994. He completed residency training in general
and cardiothoracic surgery at Duke University Medical Center, where he was
appointed to the Duke faculty in 1973 as assistant professor of surgery.

Bob was married to Taimi Toffer in 1960 and they have three sons, Michael
(Lee), Jeffrey (Melissa), and David (Jenny), and six grandchildren. He was an
active member of numerous surgical organizations and participated in community
affairs every place he and his family have lived. He always considered his
family to be the most important factor in his active and engaged life and was
dedicated to education at every level. He was an avid golfer and enjoyed
sailing and all water sports. He and Taimi were both dog lovers and always has
a canine companion (or two), who they enjoyed spoiling.

Bob served as a captain in the U.S. Army Medical Corp. for two years and was
director of the Walter Reed Surgical Shock and Trauma Research Unit in
Washington D.C. and the Republic of Vietnam. He served as professor of surgery
and chief of the Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery at the University of
Minnesota from 1977 to 1984 and then returned to Northwestern University as
professor and chairman of surgery at Evanston-North-Western Hospital and chief
of cardiothoracic surgery at Northwestern Medical School. He held joint
appointments as professor of biomedical engineering at the University of
Minnesota and Northwestern University prior to his appointment at Duke, where
he was appointed professor of surgery, professor of biomedical engineering,
and adjunct professor of business at the Fuqua Business School. He always
enjoyed telling the story of how he had operated on Mr. Fuqua during his first
year on the staff at Duke because all of the senior staff were at a meeting
and unavailable for this very important patient. He would then relate that,
“Duke got the Business School and I got a dozen golf balls.”

At the time of his passing, Dr. Anderson was the Emeritus David C. Sabiston,
Jr. Distinguished Professor and chairman of the Department of Surgery at Duke
University Medical Center and was a practicing cardiovascular surgeon for
thirty-three years. After retiring as chairman of surgery at Duke, he remained
on the Duke faculty as professor of surgery as an investigator and teacher
whose interests focused on the areas of health care technology, economics and
cardiovascular device innovation. He served as an advisor and board member on
several Duke start-up companies and has served as a consultant to numerous
corporations, medical centers, and government agencies both in the U.S. and
abroad. He served as a member of the Pratt School of Engineering’s Board of
Visitors, the Duke IRB and the Coulter Grant Steering Committee. Dr. Anderson
was the recipient of peer reviewed research funding from the National
Institutes of Health and American Heart Association for 24 years and served as
chairman of the Research Review Study section of the NIH Surgery and
Biomedical Engineering Group and the American Heart Association Surgery and
Radiology Group. He has published 350 peer reviewed articles, chapters and
books dealing with clinical cardiovascular surgery, myocardial function and
ventricular mechanics, the surgical treatment of cardiac arrythmias, cardiac
transplantation, the artificial lung, and the economics of surgical care.

Dr. Anderson was a dedicated teacher who showed a great commitment to the
education of medical students and the surgical residents who he worked with
both in the classroom and operating theater. He took great pride in the many
residents who he helped train and followed their impressive careers and
accomplishments with great joy.

He enjoyed spending free time with his family. In Minnesota, sailing on Lake
Minnetonka in regattas with his sons and spending vacations fishing in the
North Woods. Upon returning to North Carolina, he spent vacations relaxing
with frequently visiting family in a vacation home in the mountains near
Asheville. He mostly enjoyed spending time with his loving wife of 60 years,
Taimi.

His conviviality, generous spirit and always-engaging conversation will be
missed by family, friends and colleagues. We love you and miss you Bob, Dad
Papa.

## Mr. Richard P Seidel E’61

Mr. Richard P Seidel E’61 died January 11, 2020. He always credited his
success to Duke University and the United States Marine Corps. He entered
Duke’s School of Engineering in 1953 and was on the swim team before Duke
invited him to leave in his junior year for basically lack of attention to
duty, i.e., school. He joined the Marines within the year (had the highest
score of his entire recruiting class), served the two years he signed for and
talked his way back into Duke. He returned even though he had to add a year
because the curriculum had changed. He graduated in 1961. Duke had been the
only college he had applied to when he entered in 1953. He and his wife were
married 53 years, and had two children and eight grandchildren.

## Grant Thomas Hollett, Jr. E’64

Grant Thomas Hollett, Jr. E’64, known to many of us as Terry, age 79, of Ocean
Isle Beach, North Carolina passed away on August 1, 2021.

Born in Ishpeming, Michigan, Grant was preceded in death by his parents, Grant
Thomas Hollett and Mary Wildey Hollett, as well as his brother Dr. Robert
Bruce Hollett.

Surviving are Grant’s loving wife of 56 years, Lynn Conrad Hollett, his
brother John S. Hollett, and his children Kristin Hollett Lieb (Eric), Grant
Thomas Hollett IV (Courtney) and Traci Hollett (Scott). He also leaves behind
six grandchildren: Ryan Lieb (Victoria), Justin Hollett, James Hollett,
Benjamin Lieb, Andrew Lieb, and Lindsey Hollett, along with one great
granddaughter, Emery Lieb.

Grant attended Duke University, earning his degree in mechanical engineering
and a commission as a US Navy ensign in 1964. His active-duty Navy career
included service on the USS Hull and the USS Enterprise, and he was selected
by Admiral Rickover to serve as a nuclear power trained surface warfare
officer.

Grant continued his successful military career in the US Naval Reserve,
ultimately achieving the rank of two-star rear admiral (upper half).

Grant’s civilian career was just as successful as his US Navy career. He held
positions of progressive leadership at Procter & Gamble and Miller Fluid Power
(Flick-Reedy Holding Company). Grant then joined Cherry Electrical Products,
eventually reaching the position of president, followed by a position serving
as chairman & CEO at EaglePicher Technologies.

He also served several terms on Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering’s Board of
Visitors, as well as terms on the Reserve Forces Policy Board and the US Army
Science Board.

## Alfred J. Hooks E’68

Alfred J. Hooks E’68 completed his race and humbly submitted to the Master’s
call and drifted into eternal rest on January 18, 2022.

Alfred was born on February 19, 1947 in Savannah, Georgia to the late Oscar C.
and Eva Hooks. He married Clara Johnson on May 07, 1994, in Peoria.

Alfred will be lovingly remembered by his devoted and loving wife of 28 years,
Clara; a daughter, Lori (Malcolm) Cawthorne, of Chestnut, MA; a son, Malcolm
(Andrea) Hooks, of Chicago, IL.; two stepdaughters, Tiphanie Morris, of
Montgomery, IL, Nakita Morris, of Peoria, IL.; a step son, Levar (Julia)
Morris, of Evansville, IN.; two sisters, Alma (Merrill) Russ, of Vero Beach,
FL., Janis (James) Hornsby, of Bedford, TX.; nine Grandchildren, Mariah, Nia,
Kellian, Mason, Kelis, Jordon, Tyson, Parker, Madison, one Great
granddaughter, Ryan.

Alfred was preceded in death by father and mother Oscar and Eva Hooks, one
brother, Oscar C. Hooks, Jr., and sister, Pam Hooks Steverson.

Alfred graduated from St. Pius X High School. He enrolled into Duke University
and graduated with a Bachelor of Mechanical Engineering in 1968.

Alfred worked at Caterpillar Inc. for 40 years as a marketing manager when he
retired. He was a diligent worker who exemplified professionalism.

He enjoyed playing racquetball, reading, skiing and even flying planes. Alfred
obtained his pilot license in 1993. One of the most special places that Alfred
and Clara flew was where he was raised, in Savannah, Georgia. Alfred came from
humble beginnings. He felt good about this accomplishment.

He was a man of excellence, character and integrity who loved his wife,
children and grandchildren. He was continually active in the community. He was
a member of Peoria Opportunities Foundation Board of Directors, Police and
Fire Commission, NAACP, CAAR (Concerned African American Retirees), former
board of directors of Peoria YMCA, National Brotherhood of Skiers, Peoria PAC,
and a former board member at Quest Charter Academy, Dunlap High School
Mentoring Program, and a former board member of LISC. He was inducted into the
African American Hall of Fame. Alfred was awarded the Geraldine Mitchell
Public Service Award for dedicating countless hours of service to the Peoria
area.

Alfred’s legacy will live on through those he touched, mentored and inspired;
the impact of that legacy will flourish by those he loved.

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

