

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2022

# Hybrid Classes in the New Normal

April 1, 2022 | By Malav Shah

How Duke Engineering instructors and students shifted to hybrid in-person and
remote classes during the pandemic

The COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted the daily routine of most people. This
disruption has proven that it’s true that adapting to changes is not always
easy, especially when it occurs suddenly or when things evolve rapidly.

Professors at universities had to find ways for their students to study online
because most schools and universities were closed due to the COVID-19
outbreak. They had no choice but to redefine their time-tested methodologies,
which usually involved physical gatherings. Since the biology of the virus was
so unique and unprecedented, there was great uncertainty looming over the
return to normalcy.

Fast-forward to Fall 2021, when Duke University reopened its doors for
students to take courses in person while continuing to offer classes for
remote students. The Pratt School’s hybrid model of conducting both online and
offline sessions for students around the world was lauded tremendously.

The hybrid model may seem to be an inefficient system to adopt. However, it
has made life easier for students as well as professors. The simplicity of
logging in to Zoom and attending lectures is a luxury. Although it does take
away some of the live classroom experiences, it is the best that could have
been done in these trying times.

Pratt’s response to the hybrid model of education and the new normal has been
exemplary. The staff has carefully considered the students’ as well as
professors’ requests to make the online and offline classes as close to normal
as possible. By conducting screening tests for COVID-19 every week and
mandating the use of masks in class, Pratt has ensured a safe and conducive
environment for the students.

Pratt’s deep understanding of the needs of the student community has
facilitated social and networking events where students meet online or offline
with all the necessary COVID-19 protocols. This has created a sense of
community and belonging beyond the classrooms. As comfortable as hybrid
classes can be, the students of Pratt fervently wish to go back to normalcy as
soon as the conditions may allow.

Here’s a look at how some students and professors reacted to this year’s “new
normal.”

**David Smoot, Master of Engineering Management Student at Pratt**

"I prefer in-person classes, but considering these times, the hybrid model is
the way to go about it. It is definitely more convenient, but I personally try
to keep in-person meetings as far as possible. Overall, everyone has been
doing a pretty good job. The professors know the latest trends and have been
using all the new features. We are also able to get more guest speakers via
Zoom."

**Luis Morales, Master of Engineering Management professor and executive
director**

"The hybrid model has allowed us to reach people from all corners of the world
with a single click. It’s amazing how technology has helped us adapt to this
new normal. It has opened up doors for us to get talented professors from all
over to teach our students. The only downside to this model is that the
interaction between students and professors has been largely reduced. But
again, it’s just a matter of time before we are able to overcome these
challenges."

**Richard Sheng, mechanical engineering and biomedical engineering student**

"I think Pratt has done its best to continue delivering the same quality of
education, in terms of lectures and labs. Lectures were delivered almost the
same way as before but on Zoom, and even more so for flipped classes. Courses
offered many options for us to get the most learning out of labs, like being
able to take labs in a later semester, ordering items for DIY at-home
experiments, being delivered electronics kits, watching demo videos and more.
Given that Pratt had limited experience with hybrid education, I think Pratt
did well."

**Malav Shah is a student in the Master of Engineering Management program.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2022

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

