

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2022

# Duke Takes a Quantum Leap

April 1, 2022 | By Vinnessa Van

The Duke Quantum Center has the excitement of a startup and the ambition to
match as it races to compete with the likes of Google and IBM

The Duke Quantum Center (DQC) is dedicated to research and design in quantum
information processing. It is located in downtown Durham’s Chesterfield
building—a renovated tobacco factory that houses multiple labs and a state-of-
the-art quantum computer. Research at the DQC covers quantum modular computer
scaling, computer components and design, error correction, and applications.

Chris Monroe, professor of ECE and physics and director of the Quantum
Information Center, said, “Our technology is based on individual atoms that
are levitated above a chip in a vacuum chamber and we poke them with a laser
beam. That’s our computer!” While the history of computers is rooted in
silicon and solid-state physics, this technology avoids the microscopic
variations unacceptable in quantum processing by relying on the atom, the one
thing void of manufacturing discrepancies.

Quantum is a new frontier that many universities and industry giants such as
Google and IBM are racing to pioneer. Monroe and Jungsang Kim, also a
professor of ECE and physics, are the founders of IonQ, the first publicly
traded, pure-play quantum computing company. In a field with such powerful
competitors, what makes up that Duke difference?

“Most universities and researchers are focused on a single component, but
Jungsang decided it was time to move on from the component to the system,”
explained Monroe. “Building a system isn’t typically done in universities.
This is where Duke is unique. We build systems and use those systems to do
science. And that does belong at a university.” Monroe is referencing the
center’s “full stack approach,” which consists of designing every aspect of
the quantum information stack, from the atom to the algorithms.

According to ECE Professor Ken Brown, an advantage of the full stack approach
is optimization. Alone, if we were to change a component in one sector, it may
be less efficient. However, if we change something small in multiple places,
the system can become more efficient overall.

## Why Quantum

In such a new and dynamic field, it is natural to see students flock to
quantum. Franklin Bo-ampong (‘22 ECE/CS) worked in Brown’s lab in 2019 and
teaches the Introduction to Quantum Computing House Course with his fellow
Duke Quantum Information Society members, or DuQis.

Being from Ghana, Boapong wanted to build a device to help farmers but needed
a way to connect his device to farmers without a stable internet connection.
When he brought up this problem, Brown informed him that quantum computers
could not directly solve this problem, but by joining the research group he
would gain skills that could be applied to any problem. While many view
quantum as the end-all, be-all for technology, Monroe is more cautious. “This
field has a lot of hype in it,” he said. “Quantum computing may not be a
panacea, and it may not solve every type of problem. But it will solve certain
problems.”

While quantum computing seems like a distant reality that has only been
theorized, Brown finds that the work being done at the university and in the
rest of the field is a beacon that shows engineering students in particular
that quantum computing has arrived.

## Barriers to Entry

Quantum presents some unique challenges. A common conception surrounding the
field is that the classical language we usually use is not suited to describe
quantum phenomena and that the only language suitable is pure math. Monroe
agrees that not having analogies does make quantum confusing, but explains
that the math in quantum isn’t different. “It’s a plain ‘ole wave equation, no
harder than water waves or plucking a guitar string and the fundamentals,”
Monroe said. “And you usually learn that in one of your first engineering or
physics courses.”

Even if you are lacking in the math department, professors like Brown are
often happy to take on students who don’t yet have that skill but are willing
to work on the lasers or vacuum chambers. In other words, students who are
willing to build up more mechanical, technical and experimental skills.

## Preparing Students for a Career in Quantum

So how is Duke preparing Pratt stars for a career in quantum? It starts with
creating a strong foundation. From Boampong’s experience, the prerequisite
classes at Duke prepare you to understand the basics and math behind quantum
computing by teaching the foundations with linear algebra, quantum mechanics,
optics and electromagnetism. Once you have the background, there are
opportunities for students who want to dive into quantum such as ECE 420:
Introduction to Quantum Engineering, taught by Brown.

“I created the course because I talked to a lot of quantum computing
companies,” Brown said. “They all would love to have engineers—mechanical
engineers, electrical engineers, chemical engineers, material scientists—that
need to know just a little bit of quantum so that they have a better
understanding of the quantum constraints.”

Outside of the classroom, the DQC provides opportunities for hands-on
experience. “I always hire as many undergrads as I can until my graduate
students revolt,” Brown quipped. “And that ratio is about three graduates to
one undergrad.” Those at the DQC want to give undergrads the opportunity to
work on the state-of-the-art quantum computer and find that they often bring a
unique perspective and set of skills.

## Interdisciplinary and Collaborative Culture

From making the quantum computer to using it, the center embraces Duke’s
interdisciplinary culture. On the design side, Brown says he appreciates
people bringing their disciplinary knowledge to an interdisciplinary problem.
“One thing we forget is that something that you find challenging, people in
another discipline find very easy,” Brown said.

When the quantum computer is running, the DQC is often approached by people
from all kinds of backgrounds: finance, molecular design, drug discovery, oil
and gas, and even cosmology. “They come to us because we can test some of
these basic ideas with a small quantum computer,” Mon-roe said.

The environment at the DQC is also described as collaborative, where, as
Boampong puts it, you can ask anybody any question. For example, Brown recalls
a graduate student saying, “I can’t tell the difference between students who
are in the Kim lab and students in the Brown lab.” Brown commends the design
of the center, because of how much great space there is to sit at a whiteboard
outside of the office or talk to each other in a small conference room.

## A Unified Vision

Another sentiment that is expressed by those at the center is the feeling of
unity and support by both Duke and Duke Engineering. “Duke is unified top to
bottom in this vision,” Monroe said. “Not just the departments, but the deans
all the way up to the president are excited about this vision. At Duke, we’re
moving so much faster because we’ve decided the direction we’re going to go
and we’re going to push it to the limit. We also happen to have the winning
technology, and that doesn’t hurt. From a high level, what sets us apart from
the others is the strong bond between science and engineering at Duke,
initiated by Jungsang Kim many years ago." Kim has been with Pratt since 2013
and over the years has unified his collaborators at Duke.

## The Next Steps

So what’s next for the Duke Quantum Center? The environment in the
Chesterfield building feels like that of a startup—exciting and rapidly
growing. Recently, the teams have rehoused the quantum computer after a move
and are already working on getting a second one up and running. While the
building is new, faculty and students have already expressed a desire for more
space. The DQC has already filled the labs, the quantum community is expanding
rapidly, and it’s only going to get bigger.

**Vinnessa Van is a sophomore majoring in mechanical engineering, minoring in
physics and pursuing the aerospace certificate.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2022

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

