

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2022

# Let’s Talk About All Things Space Duke Space Initiative

April 1, 2022 | By Diana Koo

An inside look at Duke's growing Space Initiative that brings together
resources from across campus

Last year, 2021, was an incredibly exciting year for anyone interested in
space. In mid-July, Virgin Galactic founder Richard Branson and Amazon CEO
Jeff Bezos made history as they completed short but successful trips to outer
space. Not long after, Elon Musk’s SpaceX launched four civilians aboard the
Crew Dragon Resilience and brought them safely back to Earth after taking them
on a full orbit around the planet. These successful missions marked the
beginning of a new era of space activity, as our society moved one step closer
to normalizing space travel and exploration.

A growing interest in space is no exception here at Duke. According to Class
of ’21 Pratt alumnus Adam Doll, who now works as an engineer at NASA,
conversation first sparked at the Science & Society dinner hosted by Justin
Wiener, professor and a co-director of the Duke Center on Risk in the Science
& Society Initiative, in the fall of ’19. In his discussion, “Mission to Mars:
Protection, Peril, Policy,” he shared his ideas on evaluating risks and
developing policies to guide the human journey and settlement on Mars.
Although the attendees may not have known, this gathering may have lit the
match for the boom in the interest of space at Duke that would shortly follow.

As conversations about space became more frequent, students formulated ideas
to make more opportunities available on campus for the exploration of space.
As Doll shares, with the exception of the Aeroelasticity and Robotics Groups,
not many aerospace classes were offered, and there was a lack of support
programs for students interested in space. “My dream has always been to become
an astronaut…I almost didn’t come to Duke because they didn’t have an
aerospace major,” Doll says. He, along with many others, was determined to
bring about a change.

The great leap forward was taken by members of the Bass Connections project
“DECIPHER: Going to Mars — Science, Society and Sustainability” in the spring
of ‘21. Including Adam, the team consisted of a group of undergraduate
students keen on developing analyses and recommendations for a successful
settlement of Mars. Their work was recently published in a report titled
“Martian Migration: Policy Report on Science, Society, and Sustainability.”

Inspired by the interdisciplinary collaboration established through the Bass
Connections project, “Members were eager to build an interdisciplinary home
for space at Duke,” says Ritika Saligram, an undergraduate co-founder of the
initiative. As Doll explains, Duke had an incredible amount of potential to
foster a space hub, having top-tier programs in engineering, law and medicine.
With an echo of enthusiasm expressed by faculty leading the Bass Connections
project, the team pushed forward the launch of the Duke Space Initiative.

Since its establishment, the Duke Space Initiative has served as a bridge to
connect any student, regardless of their school affiliation, with all space-
related matters on campus. As Saligram describes, her team has been on a
mission, saying, “We want to bring a diverse set of perspectives on space to
students at Duke.” Recently, the DSI hosted a panel discussion to initiate
conversations about space medicine, law and policy. And this past November,
the DSI and the Duke Center for International and Global Studies co-sponsored
a space diplomacy webinar series “That’s No Moon: Technical and Diplomatic
Solutions to the Space Debris Challenge.” Saligram shares excitement about
organizing more events for the Duke community shortly, such as a day-long
space conference potentially co-hosted with space initiatives at other
universities.

As a young program already well on its way, the Duke Space Initiative holds
great promise for the years ahead. Saligram envisions ramping up student
momentum to set up a certificate for interested students to pursue
interdisciplinary space studies encompassing areas like engineering, policy
and philosophy. She also hopes for the DSI to help develop a Space Studies 101
course to provide a new entryway for undergraduate students to engage in
conversation about space. As Tyler Felgenhauer, Research Scientist with the
Modeling Environmental Risks and Decisions Group, suggests, new course
development will prove especially helpful for students studying at Duke who
wish to go to space. With limited options to explore space as a study, he
brings to attention the lack of a direct pathway through Duke leading to a
career in the aerospace industry.

Dan Buckland, assistant professor of surgery and of mechanical engineering and
materials science, points out his vision to increase engagement of alumni in
this initiative. For a young organization, he emphasizes the importance of
establishing an advisory board of alumni whose members have extensive
experience conducting research on space or working in the space industry.
These advisors would ideally serve as mentors or simply points of contact for
students to gain valuable information and advice on developing their space-
related careers. He anticipates many alumni will be eager to get involved.

As the Duke community’s interest in space continues to grow, there is a
considerable amount of anticipation and excitement surrounding the Duke Space
Initiative. Every day, our generation pushes the boundaries of knowledge in
space, and there is no doubt the Duke Space Initiative will play a crucial
role in fostering the development of the next leaders in space exploration.
For all the sci-fi nerds out there, now is the time to get involved, because
as Dr. Buckland says, “The future of exploration of humanity is no longer on
Earth.”

**Diana Koo is a junior majoring in biomedical engineering.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2022

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

