

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Bobby Compton

Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Pratt School of Engineering

Professor Compton’s diverse career includes global engineering product design
& development, program management, business leadership & research leadership
in electronics design, medical devices, motor controls and energy solutions
while working at GE Healthcare, GE Energy, Eaton Corporation & consulting for
small companies/startups. He has led industry research projects involving:
digital & analog electronics design, novel control systems, power electronics
efficiency improvements, new machine learning applications, and integrated
renewable energy solutions. He is also a certified Six Sigma Quality Master
Blackbelt and has achieved several patents.

From 2015-2020 he was the Director of NC State’s Electrical and Computer
Engineering (ECE) Senior Design Capstone Program encompassing 200+ students.
This ECE program helped startups, research centers, and industry sponsors
solve design problems by student teams developing products involving: Internet
of Things (IoT), Medical Devices, Machine Learning, RF Design and Renewable
Energy applications. He developed & taught leading systems engineering design
principles in the course, expanded the cross-discipline project diversity,
upgraded the electronic design lab infrastructure and improved alignment of
the program to industry sponsor & ECE Advisory board goals.

He served as the Chairman of the Industrial Advisory Board for NC State’s
Future Center for Renewable Energy (FREEDM) from 2014-2015. He also served as
an engineering subject matter expert judge at NC State University's Annual
Graduate Research Symposium since 2015.

He has been an advisor for graduate students in the Duke Masters of
Engineering Management Program (MEMP) Industry Practicum courses as well as
advised undergrad engineering students in summer internship programs. He
advised students working on industry sponsored consulting projects involving:
Mergers & Acquisitions, Supply Chain Optimization and Technology Marketing
Strategy.

He has served on Duke Electrical and Computer Engineering Ph.D. dissertation
committees advising students researching biomedical MicroFluidic chips and
integrated circuit test-ability as well as an NC State thesis committee
involving Silicon Carbide device applications.

He earned a BSEE and MSEE from Virginia Tech. He also earned an MBA from the
Fuqua Business School at Duke University specializing in Finance & Strategy
where he graduated as a Fuqua Scholar in the top 10% of the class.

He is also an expert consultant to industry for electronics design, power
electronics applications and electronics supply chains/component engineering.

In addition, in his career he has taught and developed courses in electronics
design, power electronics, product development, medical devices, six sigma
quality, renewable energy & energy transition.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Pratt School of Engineering

## Contact Information

  * **Email Address:** bobby.compton@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Duke Masters of Engineering Management Bio
    * LinkedIn Profile

## Education

  * M.B.A. Duke University, 2003
  * M.S. Virginia Polytech Institute and State University, 1999
  * B.S. Virginia Polytech Institute and State University, 1988

## Research Interests

Medical Devices, Sports & Health Physiology, Power Electronics, Electronics
Design, Printed Circuit Board Design, Industry Supply Chains & Global
Macroeconomics

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Boundary Scan Hardware Test Strategy Innovation for CT Machines. GE
    Healthcare Vice President’s Annual Technology Awards . 2004
  * Certified Six Sigma Quality Master Blackbelt. GE Healthcare. 2004
  * Vision, Creation, and Leadership of Global Electrical Center of
    Excellence. GE Healthcare Vice President’s Annual Technology Awards. 2002

## Courses Taught

  * EGRMGMT 590: Advanced Topics in Engineering Management

## Representative Publications

  * Compton, B; Johnson, RW; Taimela, PS; Sebald, R, _UNINTERRUPTIBLE POWER
    SUPPLY SYSTEMS AND METHODS USING ISOLATED INTERFACE FOR VARIABLY AVAILABLE
    POWER SOURCE RW Johnson, Y Liu, BL Compton, PS Taimela, R Sebald. US
    Patent 11,056,908 - 2021_ , Us Patent Office (2021) [abs].
  * Compton, B; Johnson, RW; Taimela, PS; Sebald, R, _UNINTERRUPTIBLE POWER
    SUPPLY SYSTEMS AND METHODS USING ISOLATED INTERFACE FOR VARIABLY AVAILABLE
    POWER SOURCE RW Johnson, Y Liu, BL Compton, PS Taimela, R Sebald. US
    Patent 11,056,908 - 2021_ , Us Patent Office (2021) [abs].
  * Compton, B; Oughton, G; Liu, Y; Das, D; Taimela, PS, _SYSTEMS AND
    APPARATUS FOR FAULT DETECTION IN DC POWER SOURCES USING AC RESIDUAL
    CURRENT DETECTION GW Oughton Jr, Y Liu, D Das, PS Taimela, BL Compton  
US Patent 9,297,862 - 2016_, Us Patent (2021) [abs].

  * Compton, B; Oughton, G; Liu, Y; Das, D; Taimela, PS, _SYSTEMS AND
    APPARATUS FOR FAULT DETECTION IN DC POWER SOURCES USING AC RESIDUAL
    CURRENT DETECTION GW Oughton Jr, Y Liu, D Das, PS Taimela, BL Compton  
US Patent 9,297,862 - 2016_, Us Patent (2021) [abs].

  * Compton, B, _UPS SYSTEMS AND METHODS USING COORDINATED STATIC SWITCH AND
    INVERTER OPERATION FOR GENERATOR WALK-IN – BL Compton US Patent 9,876,354
    - 2018_ , Google Patents (2021) [abs].

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

