

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Bryan A McGann

Clinical Professor of Law (Teaching)

Bryan McGann is a clinical professor of law, director of the Start-Up Ventures
Clinic, and faculty advisor to the Duke Law Coalition Against Gendered
Violence. Prior to joining the Duke Law faculty in 2016, McGann had a broad
career as a lawyer, entrepreneur, and commercial banker. He is of-counsel to
the Smith Anderson firm in Raleigh, an entrepreneur in residence at the
University of North Carolina, and a contributor to the Blackstone
Entrepreneurs Network.

McGann is the inventor and founder of the Pill Pockets® brand pet treats, the
world’s leading medicine delivery aid for animals. After building and
commercializing the brand, McGann’s company was acquired by Mars, Incorporated
and today the Pill Pockets® brand is sold across the United States and around
the world under various Mars’ divisions. He also co-owns Sundial Homes, a
general contracting firm building lake-front, residential property, and McGann
has recently been granted a U.S. patent on a medical brace to aid in the
rehabilitation and recovery of orthopedic surgical patients. Prior to his
practice of law, McGann was vice president of a regional commercial bank, and
is a graduate of the North Carolina School of Banking.

McGann received his LL.M. in Law and Entrepreneurship, _magna cum laude_ ,
from Duke University, and his J.D., with Honors, from the University of North
Carolina School of Law, where he served as Chief Justice of the Holderness
Moot Court Bench, graduated Order of Barristers, was recipient of the James
William Morrow, III Award, and is a member of the James E. and Carolyn B.
Davis Society. McGann also holds Ph.D., M.B.A. and B.S. degrees, and is
licensed to practice in all state courts of North Carolina, all federal courts
seated in North Carolina, and is a member of the Bar of the Supreme Court of
the United States. He is a member of the American, North Carolina, and Wake
County Bar Associations.

McGann is active in the community coaching four youth sports teams, and
holding leadership positions with his church and the Annual Fund of Cardinal
Gibbons High School where he is a member of both the Alumni and Athletic Halls
of Fame.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Clinical Professor of Law (Teaching)

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** Duke Law School 210 Science Dr, Box 90362, Durham, NC
    27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 613-7000
  * **Email Address:** bryan.mcgann@duke.edu

## Education

  * Ph.D. Walden University, 2004
  * J.D. University of North Carolina - Chapel Hill, 2001

## Courses Taught

  * EGRMGMT 520: Intellectual Property, Business Law, and Entrepreneurship
  * LAW 441: Start-Up Ventures Clinic
  * LAW 441A: Advanced Start Up Ventures Clinic
  * LAW 540: Startup Law: Representing the Company
  * LAW 640: Independent Research
  * LAW 816: Creating an Entity

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

