

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Charles Skender

Instructor in the Fuqua School of Business

C.J. Skender was born in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania in 1954. He captained three
sports at Susquehanna Township High School. C.J. holds academic degrees from
Lehigh University and Duke University. He attended Lehigh on a basketball
scholarship and graduated magna cum laude. C.J. worked as an auditor for
Deloitte Haskins and Sells in Philadelphia. He has attained eleven
professional designations in accounting, financial planning, insurance, and
management: CPA (Certified Public Accountant), CMA (Certified Management
Accountant), CCA (Certified Cost Analyst), CIA (Certified Internal Auditor),
ChFC (Chartered Financial Consultant), CLU (Chartered Life Underwriter), CFP
(Certified Financial Planner), AIAF (Associate in Insurance Accounting and
Finance), CFE (Certified Fraud Examiner), CFM (Certified in Financial
Management), and CBM (Certified Business Manager).

C. J. has served as a training consultant on three continents for IBM, Nortel,
Siemens, Starwood and Wells Fargo. He has developed and delivered various
executive education seminars as well as CPA, CMA, and CIA review courses. For
six years, he lectured simultaneously in the State, Carolina and Duke CPA
preparatory classes. For seven years, C. J. taught Financial Accounting and
Managerial Accounting on cable television in the Research Triangle area. His
scholarly work has been published in TAXES and Journal of Accounting
Education.

C. J. has received multiple teaching awards at the University of North
Carolina's Kenan-Flagler Business School (13), at Duke University's Fuqua
School of Business (5), and at North Carolina State University (5). He has
been included among the outstanding Fuqua faculty in four editions of the
Business Week Guide to the Best Business Schools. Thirty former students have
earned medals on the Uniform Certified Public Accountant Examination. C. J.
has taught more than 450 sections of college courses and 20,000 students
during his academic career. He was tapped into the Golden Chain at NCSU in
1985 and was named Alumni Distinguished Professor there in 1992. C. J. was
presented the Outstanding Educator Award by the North Carolina Association of
Certified Public Accountants in 1995. He was inducted into the Wells Fargo
Hall of Fame in 2003 for lifetime achievement. At the University of North
Carolina, C. J. has received three Weatherspoons (2000, 2004 and 2007) as well
as the James M. Johnston Teaching Excellence Award in 2005. His classes were
highlighted in businessweek.com, sportsillustrated.com andcnn.com in 2006 and
he was featured in "The Last Word" in the April 2008 Journal of Accountancy.

C. J. and his wife Mary Anne are the parents of two sons and one daughter:
Charles (1979), Timothy (1983), and Corey (1987). They reside in Raleigh,
North Carolina.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Instructor in the Fuqua School of Business

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** A224 Fuqua Sch of Bus, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-7819
  * **Email Address:** cjs6@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Fuqua Faculty Profile
    * See the Duke Law profile page

## Education

  * M.B.A. Duke University, 1981

## Courses Taught

  * ACCOUNTG 596: Accounting for Mergers and Acquisitions
  * ECON 174: Financial Accounting
  * ECON 274: Advanced Financial and Managerial Accounting
  * EGRMGMT 530: Finance in High Tech Industries
  * EGRMGMT 532: Advanced Corporate Finance for Technology-Based Companies
  * LAW 260: Financial Accounting
  * MMCI 511: Principles of Cost and Managerial Accounting

## Representative Publications

  * Paquette, LR; Skender, CJ, _Using a bankruptcy model in the auditing
    course: The evaluation of a company as a going concern_ , Journal of
    Accounting Education, vol 14 no. 3 (1996), pp. 319-329
    [10.1016/0748-5751(96)00024-3] [abs].

  *   *   *   *   *

Â© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

