

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Edward M Marshall

Adjunct Professor in the Pratt School of Engineering

Edward Marshall's career has focused on leadership development and education,
executive coaching, and consulting, helping corporations transform their
leadership cultures. He is Founder and Managing Partner of The Marshall Group,
LLC, a collaborative leadership and change consulting firm, based in Chapel
Hill, N.C., that helps leaders create collaborative leadership cultures for
sustainable business results. He has worked with C-suite executives at Fortune
500 companies like Microsoft, DuPont, Nationwide Financial, VMware, IBM,
Philips, and Marriott, as well as leadership of mid-sized firms as a coach,
consultant, and change facilitator. His work has taken him beyond North
America to clients in South Asia, Africa, Latin America, and Europe.

Edward is best known for the development of the award-winning, best practice
Collaborative Method™ that is a suite of services enabling organizations to
apply collaborative principles and practices at the organization, team, and
individual leader levels. This methodology won the Excellence in Organization
Development Award from the American Society for Training and Development. In
2015, he was recognized by Trust Across America with a Lifetime Achievement
Award as a Trust Thought Leader.

As a pioneer and leader in the field of collaborative leadership and cultural
transformation, Edward has authored two best-selling business books,
Transforming the Way We Work: The Power of the Collaborative Workplace, and
Building Trust at the Speed of Change, has been a contributing author for four
other books on trust and culture change, and since 1997 has been a nationally
syndicated author of the In the Workplace column for American Cities Business
Journals. His third book on collaborative leadership is in development.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Adjunct Professor in the Pratt School of Engineering

## Contact Information

  * **Email Address:** edward.marshall@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * CV
    * LinkedIn Profile
    * Personal Page

## Education

  * Ph.D. University of North Carolina - Chapel Hill, 1975

## Research Interests

Collaborative leadership in the 21st century. I am publishing a textbook on
the topic in August, 2020, _  
entitled: The New Age of Collaboration: Leadership for the 21st Century_

Climate change leadership, especially global leadership, policy, and
adaptation

Collaborative Teams and how they operate

## Courses Taught

  * EGRMGMT 540: Management of High Tech Industries
  * MENG 540: Management of High Tech Industries

## Representative Publications

  * Marshall, EM, _Building Trust at the Speed of Change The Power of the
    Relationship-based Corporation_ (2000) [abs].
  * Marshall, EM, _Transforming the way we work the power of the collaborative
    workplace_ (1995) [abs].

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

