

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Jeffrey D Ward

Clinical Professor of Law

Jeff Ward is director of Duke’s Center on Law & Technology (DCLT), which
coordinates Duke’s leadership at the intersection of law and technology with
programs such as the Duke Law Tech Lab, a pre-accelerator for legal technology
companies, and the Access Tech Tools initiative, a program to help students
and Duke’s community partners to employ human-centered design thinking and
available technologies to create tools to enhance access to legal services.

Ward focuses his scholarship and professional activities on the law and policy
of emerging technologies (blockchain, artificial intelligence, robotics, IoT,
etc.), the future of lawyering, and the socio-economic effects of rapid
technological change, with a focus on ensuring equitable access to the tools
of economic growth and the resources of the law.

Ward currently teaches Law & Policy Lab: Blockchain and Frontier Robotics &
AI: Law & Ethics, as well as Intellectual Property, Business Law, and
Entrepreneurship for Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering’s Masters of
Engineering Management Program.

Ward is involved with several law-tech leadership organizations, including the
Kauffman Foundation-supported Legal Technology Laboratory, the American
Association of Law Schools Section on Technology, Law, and Legal Education,
the North Carolina Bar Association’s Committee on the Future of Law. Through
this work and through his role as a 2017-2019 Duke Alumni Association “Faculty
Fellow,” Ward frequently presents nationwide on technology- and economic
development-related topics.

Prior to serving as director of the DCLT, Ward was director of the Start-Up
Ventures Clinic, supervising attorney in the Law School’s Community Enterprise
Clinic, and an associate with the Chicago office of Latham & Watkins, where he
focused on M&A and capital markets transactions and served as a Public
Interest Law Initiative Fellow with the at the Community Economic Development
Law Project of the Chicago Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, Inc.

Ward earned both his JD and his LLM in International & Comparative Law from
Duke Law School, his MA in Literature from Northern Illinois University, and
his BA in the Program of Liberal Studies (Great Books) and a concentration in
Philosophy, Politics, & Economics from the University of Notre Dame. Before
turning to the law, Ward worked first as a business consultant with a global
management-consulting firm in Chicago and then as an English teacher in the
Chicago suburbs.

Ward is licensed to practice in North Carolina and maintains his own law
practice, counseling start-ups and offering corporate and transactional legal
services to for-profit and non-profit business entities. He and his wife have
two children.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Clinical Professor of Law
  * Associate of the Duke Initiative for Science & Society

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** Duke Law School 210 Science Dr, Duke Box 90362,
    Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 613-7153
  * **Email Address:** ward@law.duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * See the Duke Law profile page

## Education

  * J.D. Duke University, 2009

## Courses Taught

  * AIPI 560: Legal, Societal, and Ethical Implications of AI
  * BIOETHIC 591: Topics in Science Policy
  * BIOETHIC 675S: Law and Policy Lab: Data Governance
  * BIOETHIC 700: Research Independent Study in Bioethics and Science Policy
  * BIOETHIC 703: Frontier AI & Robotics: Law and Ethics
  * EGRMGMT 520: Intellectual Property, Business Law, and Entrepreneurship
  * LAW 130: Contracts
  * LAW 475A: Health Data and Learning Health Networks
  * LAW 571: Future of Contracts
  * LAW 592: Frontier AI & Robotics: Law and Ethics
  * LAW 640: Independent Research
  * PUBPOL 890: Advanced Special Topics in Public Policy

## In the News

  * Is It Time to Regulate Social Media? Knight Foundation to Fund Duke Study
    (Nov 5, 2019 | Sanford School of Public Policy)
  * Innovation Incubator: Duke Law Stakes Out Leadership Role in Law and
    Technology (Jul 20, 2017 | Duke Law Magazine)
  * Duke law faculty offer 4 steps toward fixing college athletics (Apr 14,
    2014 | The News & Observer)

## Representative Publications

  * Ward, J; Kouser, T, _Health-Related Digital Autonomy: An Important, But
    Unfinished Step_ , American Journal of Bioethics, vol 21 no. 7 (2021), pp.
    31-33 [abs].
  * Ward, J, _Foreword: Black Box Artificial Intelligence and the Rule of Law_
    , Law and Contemporary Problems, vol 84 no. 3 (2021), pp. i-v [abs].
  * Ward, J; Reyes, C, _Digging into Algorithms: Legal Ethics and Legal
    Access_ , Nevada Law Journal, vol 21 no. 1 (2020), pp. 325-377 [abs].
  * Ward, J, _10 Things Judges Should Know About AI_ , Judicature, vol 103 no.
    1 (2019), pp. 12-18 [abs].
  * Ward, J, _When and How Should We Invite Artificial Intelligence Tools to
    Assist With the Administration of Law? A Note From America_ , Australian
    Law Journal, vol 93 no. 3 (2019) [abs].

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

