

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Joseph Holmes

Adjunct Associate Professor in the Pratt School of Engineering

Through 28 years of service via many roles — inventor, product developer,
manager, entrepreneur, strategist, board member, and professor — Joseph Holmes
has built a career surrounding the commercialization of technology.

Since 2000, he has owned and operated Acuity Edge — providing business-
strategy and innovation-management consulting services to corporate,
university, government, and investor clients. Holmes has led many
commercialization efforts including strategy dev't, opportunity evaluation,
investor due diligence, technology marketing, partnership dev't, IP valuation,
deal negotiations, and startup management. He has helped clients to manage
over 3000 inventions across many engineering and life-science fields leading
to hundreds of license deals, tens of startup companies, and millions in
client revenues. Directly or through partners, he has served organizations
including BASF, Deloitte Consulting, Ford, GE, Panasonic, Mayfield Fund,
Michigan State U., Motorola, MVC Capital, NASA, Nomura International, North
Carolina State U., Roche Diagnostics, Sherwin Williams, Siemens, Textron, the
U. of Illinois, and the USDA. He has provided commercialization training both
domestically and internationally for the Association of University Technology
Managers, the International Astronautical Federation, the Licensing Executive
Society, NASA, and the USPTO.

Since 2004, Holmes has taught Commercializing Technology Innovations (CTI) and
served as director of the Consulting Practicum Program (CPP) as an adjunct
professor in the Master of Engineering Management (MEM) Program at Duke. He
has also served as a voting director on the boards of Hospice of Harnett
County (2005-2011), Biovation Holdings (2012-2014), Biogenic Reagents
(2013-2016), and MBCOI (2015-2018).

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Adjunct Associate Professor in the Pratt School of Engineering

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 305 Teer Building, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 200-4231
  * **Email Address:** joseph.holmes@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * About the Commercializing Technology Innovations (CTI) Practicum - for Sponsors
    * About the Consulting Practicum Program (CPP) - for Sponsors
    * Industry-Based Practicums Offer Students Real-World Project Experiences
    * Joseph Holmes LinkedIn Profile

## Education

  * M.B.A. Duke University, 2003
  * M.S. North Carolina State University, 1998
  * B.S. North Carolina State University, 1992

## Courses Taught

  * EGRMGMT 556: Engineering Management Practicum
  * EGRMGMT 574: Commercializing Technology Innovations: Turning Visions into
    Value
  * EGRMGMT 591: Special Readings in Engineering Management

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

