

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# La Tondra A. Murray

Director, Online and Distance Education

As the Director of Online and Distance Education and an Adjunct Associate
Professor, Dr. Murray leads the development and implementation of strategic,
innovative online education initiatives for the Pratt School of Engineering in
collaboration with faculty, staff and external partners. Dr. Murray manages
the established Distributed Master of Engineering Management Program (d-MEMP),
providing administrative guidance and curricular oversight. She is committed
to positioning Duke Engineering as a globally recognized resource for world-
class digital learning experiences by launching new offerings and expanding
current programming.

Dr. Murray has ~18+ years of management experience and previously held
technical leadership positions at a variety of organizations including: NASA,
AT&T Bell Laboratories, Lucent Technologies, and IBM. She is a seasoned,
credentialed Executive Coach as well as an experienced Gallup Certified
Strengths practitioner. Dr. Murray actively advises, coaches and mentors Pratt
graduate students with a focus on leadership development.

Dr. Murray earned her doctorate in Industrial Engineering with an emphasis on
Cognitive Ergonomics and User Interface Design from North Carolina State
University. She additionally received undergraduate degrees in Computer
Science and Electrical Engineering from Spelman College and the Georgia
Institute of Technology respectively.

Dr. Murray was recognized as the 2013 recipient of the Pratt School's Capers
and Marion McDonald Award for Excellence in Mentoring and Advising. She was
also the recipient of a best paper award by the Engineering Management
Division of the American Society of Engineering Education (ASEE) in 2013. Dr.
Murray holds several human factors design methodology patents and has authored
a number of published technical papers.

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 3120 Fitzpatrick Center
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 613-6793
  * **Email Address:** latondra.murray@duke.edu

  *   *   *   *   *

Â© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

