

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Robb Eric Olsen

Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Pratt School of Engineering

I am an **innovation scientist** and **engineer** with a broad and deep
background in rigorous, human(ity)-centered design & innovation across
industry and academia, with a passion for building new innovation curriculum,
capability and ecosystems at the academic/industry/government/NGO
intersection.

At Duke I am helping **craft the design & innovation strategy for Pratt**,
working with Dean Jerry Lynch, and creating new capstone/graduate course
offerings in innovation, starting with **eLuminate Studio** (Special Topics in
Engineering, 590-01), with Associate Dean Linda Franzoni and several major
industry partners.

**Background  
**  
I worked in and eventually led Procter & Gamble's ground-breaking **_Products
Research_** discipline (founded in 1923, 1500 scientists and engineers around
the world), mining the globe for the best, most effective design & innovation
science, frameworks and methods, testing these in the crucible of global
markets, and integrating the results into new innovation paradigms.

As founder and leader of P&G's University Accelerated Innovation program, I
worked with and taught at several leading universities, including
Northwestern, where I was the first Industry Innovator in Residence at the
Segal Design Institute, and University of Michigan, working with their Design
Science program. The _**CPG Product & Business Innovation Studio** _program I
created at Northwestern is still in operation in partnership with P&G.

I also created and led P&G's successful _**Behavioral Science for
Innovation**_ initiative, crafting P&G's first broadly scaled behaviorally-
based research protocols, while funding and co-leading new behavioral science
research with partners at University of Michigan Bio-social Methods
Collaborative and NTU Singapore DEON Lab.

In my 35 years at Procter & Gamble I helped build some of the world’s largest
and most iconic brands, and also some of the smallest. I led global
communities of thousands and teams of a few visionary individuals. I created
and launched many successful product initiatives, & crafted numerous patented
product designs (47 granted patents globally). I regularly sought out non-
traditional leadership roles as these were where I could make the greatest
difference, learn the most, and keep pushing the boundaries of what’s
possible.

I retired from P&G in December, 2017.

I created TransOrbital Dynamics, a collaborative innovation consultancy, in
2019, to help scale innovation knowledge and expertise. I’ve helped client
partners discover new product platforms, strengthened organization design for
innovation, and built new partnerships between industry, academia the
military. TransOrbital Dynamics has many successful offerings, for example,
the AIM HI Certified Professional Innovator course (USAF/ANG) and VentoriumTM
(industry, academia) Hybrid StartupTM innovation programs create fundable
transformative and disruptive propositions on fast cycles, while creating new
innovation talent ready to take on the next big challenge.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Pratt School of Engineering

## Contact Information

  * **Email Address:** olsen.robb@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Founder, TransOrbital Dynamics LLC
    * Robb Olsen LinkedIn Profile

## Education

  * M.S. Procter and Gamble, 1988
  * B.S. The University of Toledo, 1982

## Courses Taught

  * EGR 590: Special Topics in Engineering
  * EGRMGMT 590: Advanced Topics in Engineering Management
  * EGRMGMT 591: Special Readings in Engineering Management

## In the News

  * ‘Aiming High’ to Innovate With the Department of Defense (Feb 7, 2023 |
    Pratt School of Engineering)

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

