

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Seth Alain Watkins

Adjunct Associate Professor in the Pratt School of Engineering

Since 2011, Seth A. Watkins has served on the adjunct faculty in the Duke
Master of Engineering Management Program (MEMP).

He also held an appointment, most recently as Adjunct Professor, in Duke's
Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
(1997-2017). As an alumnus, he served on the Board of Visitors of the Pratt
School of Engineering at Duke from 2008-2016. He received the Engineering
Distinguished Service Award (2015) from Duke's Engineering Alumni Association
as well as the Charles A. Dukes Award for Outstanding Volunteer Service (2002)
from the Duke Alumni Association.

Seth was a student at Duke for 11 years. He received both a PhD and JD from
Duke, and his research for the former particularly focused on high-temperature
superconductors. As an undergraduate at Duke, Seth completed a double major in
mechanical engineering and materials science, as well as public policy.

Among the courses that Seth previously taught are dynamic systems/control
systems and advanced mechanical systems design. Long ago, Seth was the first
to mainstream the teaching of computer-aided design (CAD) at Pratt,
implemented in undergraduate, mechanical engineering coursework. His current
courses focus on design thinking as well as law and entrepreneurship for
engineers. Seth's courses draw upon his experiences outside Duke, during which
he often has been embedded in his clients' product-related teams, bridging the
gap between engineering and legal aspects in areas such as invention, risk,
and liabilities that may arise.

He has a private law practice located in Washington, D.C. He is licensed to
practice law in the District of Columbia and Virginia. Prior to forming his
own firm, Seth practiced in a large general practice firm as well as boutique
intellectual property and international trade firms. He represents clients
concerning a diverse array of issues before the courts and administrative
agencies, in transactional and counseling matters, and in other considerations
that lend themselves to legal advice and advocacy.

His law practice has included bench and jury trials, appellate briefings and
arguments, and high-stakes advocacy from the perspectives of both small and
large clients. He represents plaintiffs, defendants, intervenors, and amicus
parties, handling matters of a private, sensitive nature as well as those
subject to the public's scrutiny. He maintains an active federal court
practice litigating against the federal government.

Among Seth's intellectual property representations, he has: litigated
technology cases with billions of dollars and thousands of jobs on the line;
filed actions involving unfair trade acts; asserted claims of unfair
competition and false advertising; prosecuted hundreds of patent matters at
the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office; handled federal government contract
matters including End User Licensing Agreement preparation; represented an
Asian foreign government's embassy in the United States, and the country's
monarch, in a matter before the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office; represented a
major foreign government filing as amicus curiae in an appellate matter
involving trade secret misappropriation; represented a group of world-class
scientists in a formerly communist, Eastern European country who sought to
apply capitalism to their inventions; and even led a client's acquisition of a
hydroelectric facility licensed by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
(FERC).

He also teaches intellectual property law courses (from 2007-2011 and
2018-present) at The Catholic University of America, Columbus School of Law in
Washington, DC.

Seth has a substantial _pro bono_ practice particularly focused on veterans
and efforts in the wounded warrior community.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Adjunct Associate Professor in the Pratt School of Engineering

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 144 Hudson Hall, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5310
  * **Email Address:** seth.watkins@duke.edu

## Education

  * J.D. Duke University, 1999
  * Ph.D. Duke University, 1996
  * M.S. Duke University, 1993
  * B.S.E. Duke University, 1992

## Courses Taught

  * EGRMGMT 520: Intellectual Property, Business Law, and Entrepreneurship
  * EGRMGMT 590: Advanced Topics in Engineering Management
  * EGRMGMT 591: Special Readings in Engineering Management

## In the News

  * Duty to Country: America’s Broken Promise, Gold Winner, MUSE Creative
    Awards (Jan 1, 2021 | MUSE)
  * They Fought and Died for America. Then America Turned Its Back. (Jul 3,
    2018 | narratively)
  * World War II Vet Inks Settlement on Long-Awaited Benefits (Oct 24, 2017 |
    Courthouse News Service)
  * Woman, 90, Seeks Benefits She Says She’s Been Owed Since WWII (Jul 27,
    2017 | Courthouse News Service)
  * ProPublica Files Lawsuit Seeking VA Correspondence Related to Agent Orange
    (Jan 19, 2017 | ProPublica)
  * Newshounds Want Records on Agent Orange Doctor (Dec 20, 2016 | Courthouse
    News Service)
  * Steptoe & Johnson Lawyer Fights for Records in Murder Case (Oct 7, 2008 |
    Blog of LegalTimes)
  * Keeping Score (Apr 30, 2007 | law.com)

## Representative Publications

  * Cocks, FH; Klenk, PA; Watkins, SA; Simmons, WN; Cocks, JC; Cocks, EE;
    Sussingham, JC, _Lunar ice: Adsorbed water on subsurface polar dust_ ,
    Icarus, vol 160 no. 2 (2002), pp. 386-397 [10.1006/icar.2002.6972] [abs].
  * Cocks, FH; Watkins, SA; Walker, MJ; Lutz, TA; Sussingham, JC, _A high-
    resolution solar telescope using dark-lens diffractive optics_ , Solar
    Physics, vol 198 no. 2 (2001), pp. 211-222 [10.1023/A:1005221126857]
    [abs].
  * Sussingham, JC; Watkins, SA; Cocks, FH, _Forty years of development of
    active systems for radiation protection of spacecraft_ , Journal of the
    Astronautical Sciences, vol 47 no. 3-4 (1999), pp. 165-175 [abs].
  * Watkins, SA; Hadley Cocks, F, _X-ray and neutron diffraction of yttrium-
    barium-copper-oxide: Modeling diffraction intensity variations produced by
    surface leaching_ , Journal of Materials Research, vol 14 no. 7 (1999),
    pp. 2773-2777 [10.1557/JMR.1999.0370] [abs].
  * Watkins, S, _Tailormade for tomorrow's market_ , Textile Asia, vol 30 no.
    7 (1999), pp. 43-45 [abs].

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

