

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Theodore Ryan

Executive in Residence in the Pratt School of Engineering

Ted has more than 40 years of experience as management consultant and coach to
top-tier organizations, focusing on executive coaching and development;
leadership and management development; organizational effectiveness;
evaluation processes; business ethics; aligning corporate culture to strategy,
mission, vision and values; and selection process development.

Currently, Ted teaches the core Management and Leadership course to Master of
Engineering Management/Master of Engineering students at the Pratt School of
Engineering. For twelve years, he taught the business ethics course at Fuqua
School of Business to daytime MBA students.

Ted’s clients have included Accenture, American Museum of Natural History,
Bank of America, Central Park Conservancy, Clariant Corporation, Deutsche
Back, The Federal Reserve bank of New York, FHI 360, GE, Chase Bank
[predecessor of JP Morgan Chase], ImageQuix, Lenovo, Mastercard, McKim &
Creed, Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley, The New York Times, PepsiCo and the U.S.
State Department. Ted’s work with these clients took place in intern

Ted has created and delivered numerous leadership development programs for
executives and managers at major global corporations and not-for-profits in
the US, Europe, Asia and Latin America. At Morgan Stanley, Ted was the lead
consultant in creating and implementing Wall Street’s first computer-driven
360 performance evaluation process. Also at Morgan Stanley, Ted created and
conducted a series of offsite leadership programs, for all officers, globally,
in the administrative, auditing, finance, human resources, legal, operations
and systems areas. One of the core modules focused on how to create and lead
effective cross-cultural teams.

Ted helped deliver Bank of America’s executive leadership program to several
hundred senior and high-level executives, and was the lead consultant in
creating a world-class investment bank [Banc of America Securities] as a
subsidiary of Bank of America.

Ted led the creation of the hiring processes for Accenture [for both its new-
hire and mid-career consultant hiring], Chase Bank and Merrill Lynch. Ted’s
proprietary Select for Success™ hiring skills program has been delivered to
scores of clients globally.

At McKim & Creed, a civil engineering firm, Ted helped lead a successful
C-suite transition.

Ted’s core professional interests center on helping individuals and
organizations achieve high performance in ways that bring full personal
development, team and organizational well-being and a positive impact on
society. A current research and consulting interest is leveraging the dynamics
that drive superior performance, high ethics and positive treatment of
stakeholders, including employees and customers. Ted is also Chief Learning
Officer for Choosing High Performance™, a consultancy for helping clients
achieve high performance and well-being.

Ted recently wrote an element [a digital chapter] for Cambridge University
Press’s extensive new series, Reinventing Capitalism in the 21st century. The
element is titled, “The Failure of Shareholder Value Theory and the Contours
of a Humane Capitalism.” It will be published soon. Ted has been asked to
write another chapter for the series, which will provide a roadmap for Boards
and CEOs who are striving to transform their organizations from a focus on
shareholder value to that of being purpose-driven for the well-being of all
stakeholders.

Ted has served on various boards, including the Episcopal Church Foundation,
Hollow Rock Racquet and Swim Club, and the Rick Herrema Foundation, a non-
profit near Fort Bragg in NC, serving military families. On these Boards, Ted
served as Chair of the Governance and Strategy Committees. Ted has also worked
with US Special Forces officers on ethical leadership and coaching.

Ted earned a B.A., High Honors, at Wheaton College (Ill.) in Philosophy and
Anthropology; a Master of Divinity, at Princeton Theological Seminary, with a
focus on Counseling and Developmental Psychology; a Ph.D. at Columbia
University, in Clinical, Vocational and Organizational Psychology; and did
Ph.D. studies at Princeton University, in Ethics, Personality, Society &
Culture.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Executive in Residence in the Pratt School of Engineering

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 305 Teer Engineering, Box 90271, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5386
  * **Email Address:** theodore.ryan@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Fuqua Faculty Profile

## Education

  * Ph.D. Columbia University, 1977

## Courses Taught

  * EGRMGMT 540: Management of High Tech Industries
  * MENG 540: Management of High Tech Industries

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

