

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Tony Michael O'Driscoll

Adjunct Professor of Business Administration

Tony O’Driscoll is a professor, speaker, author, and advisor whose engaging
message emphasizes that the key digital-age differentiator is not technology,
but people.

Tony has spent the bulk of his professional and academic career at the nexus
of Business, Innovation, Technology and Learning, creating and implementing
strategies that enable organizations to realize the full potential of their
most valuable asset: Human Beings.

Dr. O’Driscoll’s current appointments as Adjunct Professor at Duke
University’s Fuqua School of Business and the Pratt School of Engineering
coupled with his role as Research Fellow at Duke Corporate Education afford
him the unique opportunity to apply cutting-edge academic research to address
increasingly complex business challenges.

During his 18-year corporate career, Tony held several strategic leadership
positions. At Duke Corporate Education, he launched the company’s Asian
operation and led innovation at CE Labs. At IBM, he was a founding member of
IBM Global Service’s Strategy and Change consulting practice where he
consulted at the highest level with business executives on creating
competitive advantage in increasingly complex environments. He also served as
a member IBM’s Almaden Services Research Group where he investigated the
changing roles of leadership, innovation, and collaboration as enterprises
become more global, virtual, open and digitally mediated. At both IBM and
Nortel Networks, Tony had strategic responsibility for crafting and
implementing enterprise-level learning, transformation, and human performance
improvement strategies.

Dr. O’Driscoll is a frequently invited speaker at both corporate and academic
conferences. He has been a keynote speaker, workshop leader, moderator,
speaker and panelist at over 130 national and international conferences. He
has also provided expert analysis and interviews to media outlets such as The
Wall Street Journal, Business Week, Wired Magazine, TheFinancial Times, India
Today, Chief Learning Officer Magazine, Training Magazine and for industry
analysts such as Gartner and Forrester.

Tony has authored and co-authored articles for business periodicals such as
Harvard Business Review, The Financial Times, Strategy and Business, and
Dialogue and writes a column for Training Magazine. He has also published two
books on Learning and Organization Performance: Learning in 3D: Adding a New
Dimension to Enterprise Learning andCollaboration, and Achieving Desired
Business Performance. His next book, Everyday Superheroes - to be released
inMarch 2022 - proposes a revolutionary People-Centered Transformation (PCT)
approach to enable sustained and sustainable organization agility.

Dr. O’Driscoll has contributed to science via publications in journals such as
Management Information Sciences Quarterly, Journal of Management Information
Systems, Performance Improvement Quarterly and the Journal of Product and
Innovation Management. His current research and practice examines how rapidly
emerging technologies are disrupting existing industry structures and business
models. He specifically focuses on how to develop leadership systems that
enable organizations to adapt and evolve in increasingly unpredictable and
turbulent business environments.

Along with his teaching, research and formal speaking engagements, Dr.
O’Driscoll maintains an active consulting practice. His client list includes
Fortune 500 companies across a broad range of industries including High-
Technology, Banking, Biotechnology, Software Development, Gaming, Energy,
Retail and Professional Services.

Dr. O’Driscoll holds an Ed.D. in Organization Learning and an M.S. in
Management from North Carolina State University. His B.S. in Electrical
Engineering is from Virginia Tech.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Adjunct Professor of Business Administration

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** W205 Fuqua School of Business, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-7772
  * **Email Address:** tony.odriscoll@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Tony's Professional Website

## Education

  * Ed.D. North Carolina State University, 1998
  * M.B.A. North Carolina State University, 1994
  * B.S.E.E. Virginia Polytech Institute and State University, 1991

## Courses Taught

  * EGRMGMT 510: Marketing
  * EGRMGMT 542: Competitive Strategy in Technology-Based Industries
  * EGRMGMT 590: Advanced Topics in Engineering Management
  * FUQINTRD 679G: Global Markets and Institutions 1
  * FUQINTRD 680G: Global Markets and Institutions 2
  * FUQINTRD 681G: Global Markets and Institutions 3
  * STRATEGY 559Q: People Analytics
  * STRATEGY 895F: Fuqua Client Consulting Practicum
  * STRATEGY 899: Independent Study

## Representative Publications

  * Kapp, K; O'Driscoll, T, _Designing virtual immersive environments_ , T and
    D, vol 64 no. 4 (2010), pp. 30-32 [abs].
  * Reeves, ; Malone, ; O'Driscoll,, _Letter to the editor_ , Harvard Business
    Review, vol 86 no. 9 (2008), pp. 130-131 [abs].
  * Reeves, B; Malone, TW; O'Driscoll, T, _Leadership's online labs_ , Harvard
    Business Review, vol 86 no. 5 (2008) [abs].
  * O'Driscoll, T; Sugrue, B; Vona, MK, _The C-level and the value of
    learning_ , T and D, vol 59 no. 10 (2005), pp. 70-78 [abs].
  * Sugrue, B; O'Driscoll, T; Blair, D, _What in the world is WLP?_ , T and D,
    vol 59 no. 1 (2005), pp. 51-52 [abs].

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

