

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2019

# Pratt in Costa Rica

July 12, 2019 | By Sabrina Qi

Despite long, intense classes, the engineering-focused Pratt in Costa Rica
study away class offers students a whole new world of learning opportunities

Pratt in Costa Rica is one of several study abroad options for engineering
students. What's special about this program is that it allows students who
cannot fit an entire semester abroad into their academic schedule the
opportunity to experience learning in a different setting and culture.
Students have two course options. The first is a combination of Math 353A
(Ordinary and Partial Differential Equations) and Spanish 92A (Culture and
Language in Costa Rica), while the second includes BME 271A (Signals and
Systems) and Spanish 92A.

Last summer, the students' days started with three hours of Spanish class in
the mornings from Monday to Thursday, with students placed into beginner,
intermediate, advanced or native Spanish sections. With fewer than five people
in each class, the students were able to learn and practice more Spanish
within a shorter period of time. Topics covered included common conversational
phrases and vocabulary pertinent to simple tasks like ordering food and giving
directions to drivers.

In her experience last summer, participant Emilia Grzesiak felt that the
program helped her became more comfortable conversing with her mother, who was
only able to communicate in Spanish. For Libby Bucholz, assistant professor of
the practice of biomedical engineering and the instructor for BME 271A, it was
an opportunity to delve past simple vocabulary in her Advanced Spanish class
and explore Costa Rican culture and history.

One aspect of Costa Rican culture that fascinates Bucholz is the annual
pilgrimage of millions of citizens to the sacred stone of La Negrita (the
Patron Saint of Costa Rica) in San José, an event she was able to witness in
person during Pratt in Costa Rica. The millions of worshippers, each hoping to
be cured of their illnesses and problems by La Negrita, are led by a priest in
a large celebration after the pilgrimage. They leave behind a shrine of
millions of tokens representing wishes they hope La Negrita can grant.

After Spanish class and a 90-minute lunch break, students continued to their
technical classes. These took on a different structure from similar classes
offered during the academic year. Students stayed in their engineering or math
class for three hours in the afternoon from Monday to Thursday.

Grzesiak explains that even though students would learn a week's worth of
material per class, they didn't feel as rushed as during the year since more
time was being spent in class. And because Bucholz was able to spend so much
time with the same seven students each day, she was able to understand each
student's learning habits better than she could during the school year. The
longer instruction time also allowed Bucholz the opportunity to work closely
with the students on problem sets and MATLAB assignments, further reinforcing
information taught in lecture during these "built-in office hours." These
three-hour classes were by no means endured without any frustration; however,
being able to share the sense of accomplishment with her students after
working out problems with them is what made the long classes valuable.

Following technical class, students took a break from their studies by
attending cultural classes like salsa lessons and cooking classes. After all
of the day's classes were over, students typically convened at a coffee shop
close to campus to study for the remainder of the day before heading home to
their host families.

At the end of the program, the students worked on a MATLAB project,
implementing tools they had learned throughout the summer in a real-world
application. The math class made a project out of their trip to a natural
reserve, where they were able to take frequency information from several
suspension bridges and model a bridge's oscillations in both damped and
undamped conditions. The signals and systems class made a project out of their
trip to Monte Verde, where they used a spectrogram to make "fingerprints" for
various bird sounds, utilizing MATLAB to correlate with the spectrograms and
properly identify bird calls. Bucholz expressed pride in her students for
going from very little MATLAB experience to mastering MATLAB in a real-world
application.

Having four days of classes left the students three days each week to explore
Costa Rica. They participated in planned excursions, including opportunities
to explore the city of San José, tour a coffee plantation, visit Irazu volcano
and visit the cloud forest Monte Verde, described by Bucholz as "probably the
most beautiful place I've ever been." Additional trips planned by the students
included visits to Montezuma Waterfall, Manuel Antonio National Park and a
chocolate plantation.

Bucholz emphasizes how grateful she was for the opportunity to spend time with
her students outside of the classroom setting. In experiencing a good balance
of academics and adventure with the students, she saw students grow and find
their voice both inside and outside the classroom.

**Sabrina Qi is a junior majoring in biomedical engineering and minoring in
global health.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2019

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

