

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2019

# Tiny Organisms, Huge Possibilities

July 11, 2019 | By Ana Luiza Mees

Researchers across Duke University are working to harness the power of
microbiomes in many different arenas

As the global population rises, laboratories across the world are working to
develop methods to reduce human impact on the environment. At Duke University,
Claudia Gunsch, the Theodore Kennedy Associate Professor of Civil and
Environmental Engineering and director of IBIEM (Integrative Bioinformatics
for Investigating and Engineering Microbiomes), an interdisciplinary graduate
training program, currently leads cutting-edge research that unites biology,
genomics and bioinformatics to tackle problems like pollution.

Gunsch began her research as an undergraduate student. After taking her first
microbiology class, she became fascinated with the field’s unpredictable
nature. As an undergraduate, she spent hours doing biological research in
laboratories before dedicating her time to studying pollutant-degrading
microbes as a graduate researcher.

In Gunsch’s laboratories today, graduate and undergraduate students sequence
microbe genomes and modify them by transferring useful genes to other species
already thriving in target habitats. By finding ways to stimulate the desired
species’ activities, it is possible to increase their rates of
bioremediation—the process of using living organisms to neutralize or remove
contaminants from a certain environment.

The researchers are also trying to understand how microbes collaborate, which
could explain beneficial and harmful adaptations, such as antibiotic
resistance. Because the surge in antibiotic-resistant bacteria has resulted in
illnesses that are untreatable with available resources, this is one of the
most urgent threats to public health.

After decades of studying microbiomes—highly structured communities of
microorganisms—Gunsch demonstrates optimism for the future of her field by
saying, “In the past, I would take two years or more to identify a single gene
related to the degradation of a pollutant. Now, with new technology available
such as machine learning and computation, scientists are able to work at a
much faster pace.”

Other researchers at Duke University are studying microbiomes to improve
people’s lives and the environment. For example, Lawrence David, assistant
professor of molecular genetics and microbiology in the Duke Center for
Genomic and Computational Biology, guides a research group that focuses on
understanding how diet can be used to shape human-associated microbial
communities.

To pursue their nutrition work, David’s research group combines device
development, microbial ecology, gene sequencing and computational analysis.
His group is currently exploring the effects of over-the-counter nutritional
supplements in both health and disease.

Another example of Duke researchers working with microbiomes is Adela Rambi
Cardones, associate professor of dermatology at the Duke University School of
Medicine, who leads a research group that is interested in understanding how
alterations in cutaneous microbial flora and the associated human immune
response promotes autoimmune disorders.

When people restrict their thoughts on microorganisms to the human variety,
they forget about the fascinating and complex environmental microbiomes
located everywhere from the soil to the air to a table surface. Researchers at
Duke University aspire to gain a better understanding of both environmental
and human microbiomes, like how they interact, what controls them and what
they affect. This could lead to impressive outcomes and discoveries.

**Ana Luiza Mees is a first-year student expecting to double major in
electrical and computer engineering and computer science.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2019

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

