

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2019

# Saving the World One Toy at a Time

July 12, 2019 | By Ryan Piersma

With outreach in the Durham community as well as online, Project Tadpole makes
playtime accessible for children with disabilities

Despite the intense intellectual demands of an engineering degree, some
diligent and community-minded Pratt students have found the time to give back
to the city of Durham in a creative and unique way. Project Tadpole is a club
built around applying engineering skills to modify toys for the benefit of
disabled children.

The engineering gurus of Project Tadpole partner with local organizations such
as the Durham Public Schools or the Lenox Baker Children’s Hospital to upgrade
toys. These toys have various sources and applications— some originate
directly from retailers while others are specialized tools used by learning
specialists or medical personnel.

However, the members of the club know it won’t stop there. The club envisions
a future in which they can supply the knowledge necessary to make toys
accessible for the disabled to anybody with the desire to contribute by means
of both live and video tutorials. They have successfully conducted events in
the past to teach local community members skills like soldering wires or how
specific modifications can make a toy accessible. They are also in the midst
of recording new video tutorials as part of a more global outreach process.

Project Tadpole is striving to provide access to skills typically cultivated
at higher-education institutions to the general public in a similar manner to
the extensive knowledge given through nonprofit organizations like the well-
known Khan Academy. “Next, we hope to reach even greater audiences, so that if
someone from Texas was interested in modifying toys for their kids, they could
go to our website and follow our video tutorials,” says current club co-
president Martin Li.

A club with such a unique purpose is sure to have an equally unique culture.
Working out of the “sub-basement” of the Teer Engineering Building, as many as
15 members of Project Tadpole come together each week to build toys while
enjoying each other’s company and the harmony of a common goal.

“I joined Project Tadpole because one of my good friends told me to check it
out with them. It was pretty fun taking apart things and putting them back
together, so I just ended up going back again and again,” explained Li,
further emphasizing the duality of the club’s laid-back nature and the
determined focus of its members to give back to the community. The culture of
Project Tadpole is healthily distributed between these two aspects,
simultaneously nurturing its members’ skills as they learn how to contribute
to its projects while allowing them to step outside of the surrounding high-
pressure academic environment.

Despite all these amazing declarations, one may still be left wondering, “But
aren’t there a proliferation of other clubs that perform the same functions at
a university like Duke?” Project Tadpole begs to differ—when asked about what
distinguished Project Tadpole from other engineering clubs at Duke, Li was
quick to respond.

“Project Tadpole aims to improve the local community. In contrast to other
engineering clubs which often revolve around an internal project of building a
prototype or a product, our product is more of a service to the community,”
said Li. “We’re able to help improve the lives of other people and are
constantly trying to come up with new ways to do so.”

Wish the members of this club luck as they ambitiously reach out further into
the Durham community and beyond—to Texas, new countries and even new
continents as they aspire to continue improving the quality of life and fun
that disabled children are able to experience as they grow up. And while
you’re at it, maybe the audacious creativity behind Project Tadpole will give
you your own inspiration to see how your skills could benefit the greater
community and provide to those in need.

**Ryan Piersma is a junior studying electrical engineering and computer
science.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2019

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

