

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2019

# Piloting Project Edge for First-Year Students

July 11, 2019 | By Caroline Salzman

New program Project Edge looks to introduce first-year students to Duke and
entrepreneurship before classes even begin

Who would want to give up a week of their summer and go to school early?

Despite confusing many of their peers, there’s no shortage of first-year
students who choose to come to Duke a week early to participate in pre-
orientation programs designed to acclimate first-year students to college.
This year was the first for the pre-orientation program called Project Edge.

Project Edge is a week-long program led by returning students staff that
exposes first-year students to innovation, entrepreneurship and practical
design. It helps them get to know people at Duke, become aware of the
professional business and entrepreneurship resources available on and off
campus, and learn skills and processes important to innovation.

A typical day of the program starts with a group lecture at the Bullpen, an
extension of Duke’s campus in downtown Durham, where an entrepreneur,
professor, former student or other professional speaks to the students about
business and entrepreneurship. Following the presentation, the group has lunch
and works on a team project.

At the beginning of the week, the students are split into teams of three with
one upperclassman mentor. Each team is tasked with creating a business to
address an issue affecting Duke. Some of the issues this year included
connecting Duke students to the city of Durham, reducing the amount of food
waste on Duke’s campus, and increasing voter participation among Duke
students.

To help connect Duke students to Durham, one team designed a Google Chrome
extension that gives students access to more information about what events are
going on in the city and how they can participate. Another team came up with
the idea of creating an app that would reduce the amount of food waste on
Duke’s campus. The app would be attached to the students’ Duke Hub and help
students earn extra food points as part of a reward program every time they
did not waste food. Another team also designed an app to increase voter
participation among Duke students.

Jonathan Riley, a first-year member of this team, explained that the whole
thought process behind this app was “to make the very complicated process of
registering and voting easier for the Duke student.” First, the user would
choose where they wanted to vote, then the app would lead them to either the
voter application for North Carolina or the absentee ballot form of their
state of choice. The app would also clearly show all of the deadlines to
ensure no confusion. There was also an incentive associated with the app: the
more times you voted or shared the app with other people, the more points you
earned, which could be redeemed at local stores.

Besides the smaller team-based groups, there were also larger social groups
within the program composed of eight students and four leaders. This created a
sense of community within the program and allowed everyone to get to know each
other very well.

Throughout the program, first-year student Megan Wang learned a variety of
skills including “team-building skills, prototyping skills and 3D printing.”
Meanwhile, Kassen Qian discovered that “entrepreneurship is a process—it is
about putting in the work and having dedication.”

Being able to see the workspaces of different startups and talk with
entrepreneurs about their careers gives students insights into the qualities
necessary to be an entrepreneur. Since the program was in its pilot year this
summer, it was not perfect, but Kassen Qian felt that it was even better that
way, since “entrepreneurship is all about adapting to the current situation.”
The pilot status of the program also meant that there were only 20 first-year
participants. In the future, hopefully many more students will have the
opportunity to participate in Project Edge.

**Caroline Salzman is a first-year student majoring in biomedical
engineering.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2019

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

