

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Undergraduate » Undergraduate Research

# Caroline Heitmann: Building With Intention

Challenge: Restoring and Improving Urban Infrastructure

Major: Civil Engineering (Structural Concentration), Certificate in
Architectural Engineering

Advisor: Henri Gavin

View GCS portfolio »

* * *

## What are your ambitions as an engineer?

I want to work as a structural engineer, contributing to sustainability and
our built environment in a meaningful way. I want to focus on being as
innovative as possible, and not being anchored by the traditional practices of
the past.

One thing I'm interested in is climate change. Disasters are getting worse–how
do we design our buildings to be strong enough to stand up to these ever-
increasing thresholds? Being able to design and provide shelter for people
while they're in terrible circumstances is incredibly important, and a big
responsibility.

## What made you apply to become an NAE Grand Challenge scholar?

I really liked the idea of having like a grand challenge that a community of
engineers is working towards, and the fact that you could make the challenge
your own.

I’m someone who likes to plan and stay organized, so having a unifying idea to
guide all my activities at Duke was very appealing. At the same time, the
parameters of the program are very flexible, so I didn't feel like hemmed in
to one particular area of exploration and study.

## Tell us about your thesis project, “Stability & Dynamics of Tensegrity.”

Tensegrity is a structural form; in simple terms, it’s a structure made of
bars that are always in compression and cords that are always in tension. It’s
typically seen as an art form, but it’s increasingly being used for other
applications because it’s low cost and efficient.

I really wanted to take the idea of tensegrity a step further, with some sort
of resilient, sustainable design. I was thinking about the intersection among
infrastructure, which is my grand challenge, and structural engineering, and
energy—how might we use a structural form like tensegrity to improve energy
resilience?

We came up with the idea of using a solar panel built on a tensegrity model.
There are many tensegrity shapes, and I played around with different shapes
for the foundation, but we settled on a basic Snelson prism.

The model is very adaptable. Because it can change form easily, it can track
the sun throughout the day, maximizing its solar irradiance intake.

It's a simple-looking design, but it's really exciting to see it come to
fruition, because I had so many questions in the beginning: How is this going
to happen? Where is the sun during the day and how will we calculate what
angle the panel should be at, to remain perpendicular to the sun? But it did
come together! I did a lot of background research last semester, and we did
the bulk of the computational modeling in Matlab this semester. Then I built
the small model of the design that you see here.

Overall, we found that a tensegrity-based solar panel support system is 36%
more effective than a south-facing, horizontal panel, 21% more effective than
than a horizomtal panel inclined at 34 degrees (assuming the solar panel is
located at Duke Chapel), and 15% more effective than a panel rotating about
its polar axis.

## Did the pandemic year affect your work?

It did affect what I had planned for my global experience. I was supposed to
working in a lab in Nuremberg, Germany, last summer, researching smart cities
and human-centered design, and trying to understand how the indoor landscape
affects human health through a program called DAAD Rise. I was hopeful that I
could do the work remotely, but it didn’t pan out.

My global experience is therefore projected—I’m beginning a master’s degree in
civil engineering at École polytechnique fédérale de Lausanne, in Switzerland,
in September 2021. I plan to focus on structural engineering to continue
exploring how structures can be strengthened against worsening stressors.

## Would you recommend the program to new engineering students? If so, why?

I would definitely recommend it. I feel like the program shaped my Duke career
in a positive way, in the sense that it complemented my classes and reminded
me to think outside of the bare-bones, grade-oriented, academic landscape. It
made me think deeply about what I wanted to do and how I wanted to apply
engineering in the future.

Apply to be a Grand Challenge Scholar

Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate experience »

## Undergraduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 20, 2023 | Bass Connections

### Taking the Bull City by the Horns

February 22, 2023 | The Chronicle

### Sydney Hunt of Duke ECE Among Duke Young Trustee Finalists

View all undergrad news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

