

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

# Academic Departments & Research Centers

## Academic Departments

### Biomedical Engineering

Duke BME is consistently ranked among the top graduate biomedical engineering
programs

#### Research Areas of Focus

  * Bioelectric Engineering
  * Biomaterials
  * Biomechanics and Mechanobiology
  * Biomedical and Health Data Sciences
  * Biomedical Imaging and Biophotonics
  * Biomedical Technology Design (MedTech)
  * Biosensors and Bioinstrumentation
  * Computational Modeling of Biological Systems
  * Drug and Gene Delivery
  * Immune Engineering
  * Neural Engineering
  * Synthetic and Systems Biology
  * Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine

Visit bme.duke.edu

### Civil & Environmental Engineering

Duke CEE is pursuing discoveries that improve the fundamental health, safety
and resilience of society

#### Research Areas of Focus

  * Computational Mechanics and Scientific Computing
  * Environmental Health Engineering
  * Geomechanics and Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
  * Hydrology and Fluid Dynamics
  * Risk & Resilient Systems

Visit cee.duke.edu

### Electrical & Computer Engineering

Duke ECE is conducting advanced research in all major areas of electrical and
computer engineering

#### Research Areas of Focus

  * Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning
  * Metamaterials
  * Quantum Computing
  * Nanoelectronic Materials and Devices
  * Sensing and Imaging
  * Trustworthy Computing

Visit ece.duke.edu

### Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science

Duke MEMS is designing the future of mechanical systems and materials

#### Research Areas of Focus

  * Aerodynamics and Aeroelasticity
  * Autonomous Systems
  * Biomechanics and Biomaterials
  * Computation & Artificial Intelligence
  * Energy Systems and Materials
  * Soft Matter and Nanoscale Materials

Visit mems.duke.edu

_Duke MEMS also participates collaboratively in the Duke Materials Initiative
and in Duke's University Program in Materials Science and Engineering. More
atdmi.duke.edu »_

* * *

## Research Centers

### Accelerating Innovation

#### EnE: Institute for Enterprise Engineering

Duke Engineering's Institute for Enterprise Engineering provides working
professionals with high-impact skills

#### For Working Professionals

  * Executive Short Courses

  * 4-Course Graduate Certificates
  * Online Master's Degrees
  * Through education partner _Coursera_ :
    * Online Certificates
    * Online Specializations

#### Topic Areas

  * Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML)
  * Blockchain
  * Computing Fundamentals
  * Cybersecurity
  * Engineering Management
  * Financial Technology (FinTech)
  * Game Design, Development & Innovation

Go to **ene.duke.edu** »

#### EngEn: Duke Engineering Entrepreneurship

Duke EngEn is a bold initiative that integrates needs-driven design
experiences, entrepreneurial education, startup resources, and a leadership
team of successful entrepreneurs to deliver technological solutions to
societal needs in health, defense, climate and beyond.

Go to **engen.duke.edu** »

#### GUIde Consortium for Aeroelasticity

Government, university and industry (GUI) consortium addressing challenges
related to controlling the vibration of bladed disks.

Visit **aeromech.pratt.duke.edu** »

### Advanced Computing & Intelligent Systems

#### Agile Waveform Design for Communication Networks in Contested
Environments UCE

A US Air Force Research Laboratory-Air Force Office of Scientific Research
University Center of Excellence

A five-year, $5 million AFOSR program at Duke to develop methodologies for
novel waveform design and optimization techniques that are both agile to
changing network dynamics and robust to adversaries in contested environments,
with provable bounds on performance.

More »

#### NSF AIICE: Identity-Inclusive Computing Education

A National Science Foundation INCLUDES project

This $10 million NSF project at Duke aims to develop tools and strategies in
computing education that increase the entry, retention and course or degree
completion rates of high school and undergraduate students from historically
underrepresented groups. It is led by led by Nicki Washington, professor of
the practice in Computer Science, and Shaundra Daily, professor of the
practice in Electrical & Computer Engineering and in Computer Science.

More about AIICE »

#### NSF ATHENA: Edge Computing Leveraging Next-Generation Networks

Supported by the National Science Foundation

An NSF-supported project led by Duke that brings together a multidisciplinary
team of scientists, engineers, statisticians, legal scholars and psychologists
from seven universities. It will transform the design, operation and service
of future systems from mobile devices to networks. It is committed to
educating and developing the workforce, cultivating a diverse next generation
of edge computing and network leaders whose core values are driven by ethics
and fairness in AI. As a nexus point for the community, this institute will
spearhead collaboration and knowledge transfer, translating emerging technical
capabilities to new business models and entrepreneurial opportunities.

Go to **athena.duke.edu** » _  
_

#### IARPA EURIQA: Error-Corrected Universal Reconfigurable Ion-trap Quantum
Archetype

Supported by the Intelligence Advanced Research Projects Activity

A five-year, $31.9 million IARPA project at Duke to address qubit degradation
with ion technology for quantum information applications.

Go to **euriqa.pratt.duke.edu** »

#### NSF STAQ: Software-Tailored Architecture for Quantum Codesign

Supported by the National Science Foundation

A Duke-led, seven-university, $15 million NSF collaboration with the goal of
building the world’s first practical quantum computer.

STAQ involves physicists, computer scientists and engineers from Duke, the
University of Maryland, the University of Chicago, Tufts University, the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the University of California-Berkeley
and the University of New Mexico.

Visit **staq.pratt.duke.edu** »

#### QSA: Quantum Systems Accelerator

A US Department of Energy Quantum Information Science Research Center

Duke is one of 14 U.S. institutions in a five-year, $115 million effort by DOE
to forge the technological solutions needed to harness quantum information
science for discoveries that benefit the world.

More about QSA at Duke »

#### Spectator Qubit MURI

A US Army Research Office Multidisciplinary University Research Initiative

This team of researchers, led by Duke, received more than $9 million from the
ARO to investigate the “spectator qubit” approach to improving quantum
computing systems.

More about Spectator Qubit MURI »

### Materials Discovery & Development

#### DMI: Duke Materials Initiative

DMI provides strategic leadership by harnessing the distinct combination of
interdisciplinary expertise in technical and societal disciplines, research
focus, development of advanced experimental and computational tools and
paradigm-shifting education available at Duke.

Visit **dmi.duke.edu** »

#### SPICES: Spinodal-Hardened High-Entropy Ceramics MURI

An Office of Naval Research Multidisciplinary University Research Initiative

Led by Duke, ONR SPICES MURI will create AI tools to design recipes for a new
class of materials tailored to super-hard, high-temperature applications. Read
an article about SPICES research »

Visit **materials.duke.edu** »

#### Meta-Imaging MURI

A US Air Force Office of Scientific Research Multidisciplinary University
Research Initiative

This AFOSR MURI, led by Duke, exploits breakthroughs in the fields of
metasurfaces, computational design, fundamental modal optics, and information
theory to enable a new paradigm for sensing, processing and computing by
utilizing metasurfaces to detect additional degrees of freedom of the light
field and process the information at the speed of light—all while reducing the
size and weight of imaging systems.

Visit **meta-imaging.pratt.duke.edu** »

#### CMIP: Metamaterials and Integrated Plasmonics

A Duke research enterprise exploring the capabilities and limitations of
electromagnetic metamaterials.

Visit **metamaterials.duke.edu** »

#### FIP: Fitzpatrick Institute for Photonics

A Duke-based research and training effort focused on information science,
quantum optics, optoelectronics, information spaces and biophotonics.

Visit **fitzpatrick.duke.edu »**

#### X-Ray Diffraction Scanner

Sponsored by the US Department of Homeland Security

Designing and developing a new type of security scanner that can detect an
object's shape and molecular composition.

More about the Duke X-Ray Diffraction Scanner »

### Personal, Environmental & Population Health

#### CAGT: Advanced Genomic Technologies

CAGT at Duke is a team of world-leading engineers, scientists, and physicians
working to integrate advanced genomic technologies, adapt them to help unravel
disease biology, and discover new drug targets to catalyze a more robust
biotechnology enterprise.

Visit **cagt.pratt.duke.edu** »

#### NIH CBTE: Biomolecular and Tissue Engineering

  

Supported by the National Institutes of Health

CBTE, supported by the NIH National Institute for General Medical Science,
coordinates interdisciplinary discovery and training across three areas:
protein engineering, cellular engineering and tissue engineering.

Visit **cbte.pratt.duke.edu** »

#### IGVF Characterization Center

Supported by the National Human Genome Research Institute

An $8.6 million award from the NHGRI Impact of Genomic Variation on Function
(IGVF) Consortium funds the IGVF Characterization Center at Duke. It is
designed to be a generator of data informing how genetic variation impacts
gene regulation and phenotypes.

More about IGVF Characterization Center at Duke »

#### DARPA MEMENTO: Mapping Epigenetic Memory of Exposure to Observe

Supported by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency

Led by co-principal investigators at Duke with expertise in biomedical
engineering and infectious disease medicine. DARPA-supported Memento is
working to develop a genetic test for exposure to weapons of mass destruction.

More about MEMENTO »

#### WaSH-AID: Water, Sanitation, Hygiene and Infectious Disease

Sponsored in part by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation

WaSH-AID facilitates the development and sustainable deployment of novel
technology-based health solutions for developing regions across the globe.

Visit **washaid.pratt.duke.edu** »

### Resilient Systems & the Environment

#### NSF PreMiEr: ERC for Precision Microbiome Engineering

An NSF Engineering Research Center (ERC)

The **NFS Engineering Research Center for Precision Microbiome Engineering** ,
or PreMiEr, aims to develop diagnostic tools and engineering approaches that
promote building designs for preventing the colonization of harmful bacteria,
fungi or viruses while encouraging beneficial microorganisms.

PreMiEr is funded by a five-year, $26 million grant from the National Science
Foundation (NSF), renewable for a second five-year, $26 million term.

More about **NSF PreMiEr »**

#### NSF INFRAMES: Assessing Materials for Environmental Sustainability

A National Science Foundation AccelNET program

Building on the work of the Center for the Environmental Implications of
NanoTechnology (CEINT), this five-year, $1.6 million NSF program of US and
international partners will create a network of networks to address questions
about the environmental impacts of novel materials.

More about **INFRAMES** »

#### Duke Center on Risk

A multidisciplinary group developing innovative methods, technologies,
policies, and practices to confront risks faced by society, both familiar and
emerging, including climate change, pollution, pandemic disease, food safety,
cyber‐attacks, financial shocks, accidents, and terrorism.

More about the **Center on Risk »**

## Affiliated Programs at Duke

### Minor in Energy Engineering

Rigorous exposure to fundamentals of energy engineering—for undergraduate
students.

Go to **energy.pratt.duke.edu** »

### University Program in Materials Science & Engineering

Exceptional PhD and master's degree opportunities among Duke's vast
multidisciplinary strengths in materials research.

Visit **dmi.duke.edu** »

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

