

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

# Faculty Profiles

Duke Engineering faculty rank among the top in the nation in scholarly
research productivity

  * Visit our department and program websites »
  * See open positions and job opportunities »

## Collaborate With Duke Engineering

To explore a research opportunity or an industry partnership —

contact us

Filter by Department

All Faculty

Biomedical Engineering

Civil & Environmental Engineering

Electrical & Computer Engineering

Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science

### Wilkins Aquino

Anderson-Rupp Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Computational mechanics, finite element methods,
computational inverse problems and their applications in engineering and
biomedicine, scientific computing, computational acoustics and acoustics-
structure interaction, coupled chemo-mechanics (e.g., electrochemistry-
mechanics).

### Gaurav Arya

Professor in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering and
Materials Science

Research Interests: Molecular modeling, molecular simulations, statistical
mechanics, coarse-graining, machine learning, polymer and colloidal physics,
polymer-nanoparticle composites, chromatin biophysics, DNA nanotechnology,
viral DNA packaging, single-molecule force spectroscopy, nanoscale...

### Roger C. Barr

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Bioelectricity and biomedical computing.

### Matthew L Becker

Hugo L. Blomquist Distinguished Professor of Chemistry

Research Interests: Polymer chemistry; bioconjugate chemistry; molecular
imaging and additive manufacturing; materials for bone, soft tissue, neural
and vascular tissue engineering; drug and protein delivery; degradable
materials for flexible electronics

### Adrian Bejan

J.A. Jones Distinguished Professor of Mechanical Engineering

Research Interests: Thermodynamics, applied physics, life & evolution in
nature, constructal law.

### Michael Howard Bergin

Sternberg Family Professor of Civil & Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Aerosols are generated by a variety of natural and
anthropogenic sources. I am interested in the processes that emit, transform
and deposit particulate matter. A current focus of my research is how
particles in the atmosphere directly modify the surface radiation balance of
the...

### Tyler K Bletsch

Assistant Professor of the Practice in the Department of Electrical and
Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Software security, robotics, project-oriented education,
and datacenter efficiency

### Donald B. Bliss

Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Fluid mechanics, aerodynamics, acoustics, and structural
dynamics

### Volker Blum

Associate Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science

Research Interests: Computational predictions and understanding of new
materials related to energy and electronics, as well as molecular structure
and spectroscopies, based on the "first principles" of quantum mechanics. Much
of this work is directly connected to ongoing developments of new...

### Fred K. Boadu

Associate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: How the engineering, environmental and petrophysical
properties of porous media (soils, fractured rock, biological tissues) affect
measurable geophysical responses, and subsequently develop methodologies by
which these properties can be obtained from non-invasive geophysical...

### John A. Board

Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: High performance scientific computing and simulation,
novel computer architectures, cluster computing and parallel processing;
ubiquitous computing.

### Mark Edward Borsuk

Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Mathematical models for integrating scientific information
on natural, technical, and social systems; Bayesian network modeling with
regular application to environmental and human health regulation and decision
making; novel approaches to climate change assessment, combining...

### Andrew Bragg

Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Fundamental and applied problems in fluid dynamics,
especially turbulence, and its role in environmental systems.

### Leila Bridgeman

Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Robust and optimal control, linear matrix inequalities
(LMIs), model predictive control (MPC), delayed systems, input-output
stability, passivity.

### L. Catherine Brinson

Sharon C. and Harold L. Yoh, III Distinguished Professor

Research Interests: Mechanics of materials, with emphasis on complex
hierarchical materials and polymer based systems, and merging concepts of data
science into materials. Nanoscale and bulk scale experimental
characterization, modeling and simulation of the behavior of materials,
including...

### Martin A. Brooke

Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Analog, RF, and optoelectronic circuits. Sensor interface
circuits. Deployable sensor systems

### April S. Brown

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

### Kenneth R Brown

Michael J. Fitzpatrick Distinguished Professor of Engineering

Research Interests: Quantum error correction, quantum control, quantum
computer architecture, ion trap quantum computing, and the spectroscopy of
sympathetically cooled molecular ions

### Elizabeth K Bucholz

Associate Professor of the Practice in the Department of Biomedical
Engineering

### Nenad Bursac

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Embryonic and adult stem cell therapies for heart and
muscle disease; cardiac and skeletal muscle tissue engineering; cardiac
electrophysiology and arrhythmias; genetic modifications of stem and somatic
cells; micropatterning of proteins and hydrogels.

### Robert Calderbank

Charles S. Sydnor Distinguished Professor of Computer Science

Research Interests: Error control codes for quantum computing, wireless
communication and the internet of things, coding theory for computer
architecture, signal processing, machine learning

### Lawrence Carin

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Applied statistics and machine learning

### David Carlson

Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Machine learning, predictive modeling, health data
science, statistical neuroscience

### Nathaniel Chaney

Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Hydrology, Earth system science, soil science, ecology,
geomorphology, numerical modeling, high performance computing, machine
learning, environmental data delivery and data assimilation.

### Pranam D. Chatterjee

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Integration of computational and experimental
methodologies to design novel proteins for applications in genome editing,
targeted protein modulation, and reproductive bioengineering

### Boyuan Chen

Assistant Professor in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering
and Materials Science

Research Interests: Robotics, computer vision, machine learning, AI for
science

### Chuan-Hua Chen

Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Experimental and theoretical research coupling
physicochemical hydrodynamics with interfacial engineering

### Tingjun Chen

Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Wireless networking, next-generation wireless and optical
networks, edge cloud and computing, Internet-of-Things (IoT), mobile and
embedded systems, platforms and testbeds

### Yiran Chen

Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Emerging memory and storage technologies Embedded systems,
CPS, edge computing, and mobile applications Neuromorphic computing, deep
learning and system security Low power circuit and system

### Ashutosh Chilkoti

Alan L. Kaganov Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Focused on biomolecular materials and biointerface science
and emphasizes the development of applications that span the range from
bioseparations, biosensors, biomaterials, and targeted drug delivery.

### F. Hadley Cocks

Professor Emeritus in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering and
Materials Science

Research Interests: A wide variety of areas in materials science, including
crystal growth, mechanical properties of kidney stones, lunar science,
diffraction optics, materials for radiation detection, and radiation
shielding.

### Joel Collier

Theodore Kennedy Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: The design of biomaterials for a range of biomedical
applications, with a focus on understanding and controlling adaptive immune
responses. Most materials investigated are created from molecular assemblies-
proteins, peptides or bioconjugates that self-organize into useful...

### Leslie M. Collins

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Physics-based machine learning algorithms for big data,
including developing remediation strategies for the hearing impaired and
sensor-based algorithms for the detection of hazardous buried objects

### Steven A. Cummer

William H. Younger Distinguished Professor of Engineering

Research Interests: Theoretical and experimental electromagnetic problems
related to geophysical remote sensing and engineered electromagnetic
materials.

### Mary "Missy" Cummings

Adjunct Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Human-unmanned vehicle interaction, human-autonomous
system collaboration, human-systems engineering, public policy implications of
unmanned vehicles, and the ethical and social impact of technology.

### Stefano Curtarolo

Edmund T. Pratt Jr. School Distinguished Professor of Mechanical Engineering
and Materials Science

Research Interests: Artificial Intelligence Materials Science; Autonomous
Materials Design; Computational materials science; High-Entropy Disordered
Systems; Materials for Energy Applications; Materials for Aerospace
Applications. Prof. Curtarolo multidisciplinary research makes use of state-
of-the...

### Shaundra Daily

Professor of Practice in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Identity-inclusive computing, Human-centered design &
engineering, justice-centered STEM education

### Laura Elizabeth Dalton

Assistant Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: 4D Imaging; Carbon sequestration in porous materials;
sustainable material development; structural integrity of carbon capture and
storage wells; reactive transport in porous materials

### Ingrid Daubechies

James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Mathematics and Electrical and
Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Wavelet theory, signal processing, machine learning,
computational geometry, time-frequency analysis

### George Delagrammatikas

Professor of the Practice in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and
Materials Science

Research Interests: Engineering Education, Automotive Engineering, Design
Optimization, Thermal Fluid Sciences, Experimental Methods, Prototyping

### Olivier Delaire

Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Olivier Delaire investigates atomic dynamics in materials,
focusing on problems at the interface of Materials Science, Physics and
Chemistry. His research group utilizes a range of experimental and
computational approaches, including neutron and x-ray scattering
techniques,...

### Marc Deshusses

Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Design, analysis and application of remediation, waste-to-
energy and decentralized sanitation processes, including novel reactors and
processes for air, water and solid wastes treatment.

### John Everett Dolbow

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Modeling quasi-static and dynamic fracture of structural
components, the evolution of interfaces with nonlinear constitutive laws, and
developing models for stimulus-responsive hydrogels

### Earl H. Dowell

William Holland Hall Distinguished Professor

Research Interests: Aeroelasticity, acoustics, nonlinear dynamics, structural
dynamics, and unsteady aerodynamics.

### Jessilyn Dunn

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Use of large-scale biomedical datasets to model and guide
personalized therapies.

### Timothy Dunn

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Machine learning, computer vision, neurobiology, animal
behavior, computational neuroscience, prognostic modeling, traumatic brain
injury

### Richard B. Fair

Lord-Chandran Distinguished Professor of Engineering

Research Interests: Microfluidic systems for lab-on-a-chip applications based
on electrowetting technology

### Sina Farsiu

Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Focused on medical imaging and machine learning to improve
the overall health and vision outcome of patients with ocular and neurological
diseases (e.g., age-related macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathy,
Alzheimer, and ALS) through earlier and personalized therapy.

### Paul J Fearis

Associate Professor of the Practice in the Department of Biomedical
Engineering

Research Interests: Innovation & product development processes, design for
manufacture

### P. Lee Ferguson

Associate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Environmental analytical chemistry and applications of
high resolution mass spectrometry to trace organic contaminant analysis,
environmental fate and effects of carbon nanomaterials in the aquatic
environment, proteomics in environmental toxicology, and mechanisms of...

### Aaron D. Franklin

Addy Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Nanomaterials in electronic devices, nanofabrication,
printed electronics and internet of things (IoT), biosensing

### Linda Franzoni

Professor of the Practice in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Acoustics of enclosures, underwater acoustics, structural
dynamics and vibration.

### Ken Gall

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Materials science, mechanical properties, metals and
polymers. Specialties: Shape memory materials, biomaterials, 3D printing.

### Henri P. Gavin

Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Structural dynamics, earthquake engineering, seismic
hazard mitigation for building contents, nonlinear dynamics, system
identification, optimal control with application to systems with controllable
damping.

### Michael E. Gehm

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Primarily computational and compressive sensing and
measurement in all modalities (with special emphasis in
Electromagnetic/Optical from RF to x-ray and all forms of Mass spectrometry),
with side interests in optical physics, high-performance x-ray simulation, and
rapid-...

### Sharon Gerecht

Paul M. Gross Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: stem cells, biomaterials, hypoxia, blood vessels, physics
of cancer, regenerative medicine

### Charles Gersbach

John W. Strohbehn Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Gene therapy, genomics and epigenomics, biomolecular and
cellular engineering, regenerative medicine, and synthetic biology.

### Jeffrey Glass

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Electronic materials and the associated
devices/instruments improved by these materials, especially electrode
applications in miniature mass spectrometry, energy conversion and storage and
liquid waste disinfection for developing regions. Electrochemical measurements
and...

### Neil Gong

Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Security, privacy, and machine learning.

### Yiyang Gong

Assistant Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Recording and understanding brain activity by developing
novel combinations of optical microscopy and genetically encoded sensors.
Using these technologies, we wish to dissect neural circuit function and
investigate how neural activity drives complex behaviors.

### Maria Gorlatova

Nortel Networks Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Architectures, algorithms, and protocols for emerging
mobile pervasive systems and the Internet of Things. Our work crosses
traditional discipline boundaries and requires thinking across multiple layers
of system and protocol stacks. We are focusing on breaking the barriers for...

### Warren M. Grill

Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Neural engineering and neural prostheses and include
design and testing of electrodes and stimulation techniques, the electrical
properties of tissues and cells, and computational neuroscience with
applications in restoration of bladder function, treatment of movement
disorders...

### Johann Guilleminot

Assistant Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Computational mechanics, mechanics of heterogeneous
materials, molecular dynamics simulations and atomistic-to-continuum coupling,
stochastic solvers, statistical inverse problem and model validation,
stochastic analysis, uncertainty quantification in science and engineering

### Claudia K. Gunsch

Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Identifying genetic adaptation mechanisms resulting from
anthropogenic contaminant exposure; developing biosensors capable of pathogen
and contaminant detection in water and air; studying the impact of emerging
contaminants on aquatic microbial ecology; and the development of...

### Michael Richard Gustafson

Associate Professor of the Practice of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Computational methods for image analysis and information
extraction, discrete event simulations, curriculum development and deployment

### Kenneth C. Hall

Julian Francis Abele Distinguished Professor

Research Interests: Unsteady aerodynamics, structural dynamics, and
aeroelasticity of turbomachinery and aerospace vehicles. Novel approaches to
modeling complex physical phenomena using computational fluid dynamics.
Optimization and sensitivity analysis. Fluid dynamics of animal propulsion.

### Craig S. Henriquez

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Large-scale computing, heart modeling, and brain modeling.

### Andrew Douglas Hilton

Professor of the Practice in the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering

Research Interests: Computer architecture, specifically architectural support
for security and energy-efficient performance

### Brenton D. Hoffman

James L. and Elizabeth M. Vincent Associate Professor of Biomedical
Engineering

Research Interests: Focused on understanding, on a molecular level, how
mechanical and chemical cues from the environment are detected, integrated,
and manipulated by cells to dictate physiological and patho-physiological
responses important in vascular biology.

### Roarke Horstmeyer

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Computational optics, machine learning, and designing new
algorithms for image processing. A main focus is to improve how we capture and
use images of microscopic phenomena within a range of biomedical contexts. In
general, I like to create new optical devices that can improve...

### Nico Hotz

Associate Professor of the Practice in the Department of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Interfacial transport phenomena and thermodynamics in
energy technology, including phenomena at the micro- and nanoscale.
Thermodynamics aspects of photovoltaics, novel sustainable energy conversion
technologies, and chemical reactions are an essential part of my research.
My...

### Laurens E. Howle

Professor with Tenure in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering
and Materials Science

Research Interests: Hydroelastic modeling of deformable structures, transport
in thermal and chemical systems, experimental and computational fluid
dynamics, nonlinear and complex systems, heat and mass transport in biological
systems, stability of fluid motions, machine learning, data mining,...

### Po-Chun Hsu

Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Smart multifunctional textiles, camouflage fabrics,
stimuli-responsive polymer, wearable electronics, photon management, radiation
heat transfer, solar desalination and water harvesting, electrochemical
devices, electrospinning and fiber fabrication

### Heileen Hsu-Kim

Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Aquatic chemistry and geochemistry, trace element
environmental chemistry, nanogeoscience, mercury biogeochemistry, water-
particle surface processes.

### Tony Jun Huang

William Bevan Distinguished Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science

Research Interests: Acoustofluidics, microfluidics, lab-on-a-chip, biomedical
micro-electro-mechanical systems (BioMEMS), optofluidics, plasmofluidics.

### Tomasz Hueckel

Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Mechanics of materials, theoretical soil mechanics, rock
mechanics, theory of plasticity, multi-physics processes in geomechanics,
nuclear waste disposal, energy and environmental geomechanics.

### Lisa Gresham Huettel

Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School Professor of the Practice of Electrical and
Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Engineering education, pedagogy and curriculum
development, applications of statistical signal processing

### Joseph A. Izatt

Michael J. Fitzpatrick Distinguished Professor of Engineering

Research Interests: Biomedical optics and spectroscopy, coherence-based
imaging and microscopy, novel instrumentation for minimally invasive medical
diagnostics, and real-time image-guided robotic microsurgery.

### William T. Joines

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Electromagnetic field and wave interactions with materials
and structures

### Nan Marie Jokerst

J. A. Jones Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

### Akhenaton-Andrew Dhafir Jones

Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Biofilms, cardiovascular infections, infectious diseases,
biomaterials, antibiotics, porous media flows, fate and transport of
nanomaterials in biofilms, water quality sensors, environmental systems
analysis, environmental equity, environmental justice

### Zbigniew J. Kabala

Associate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Dr. Kabala's principal research interests cover stochastic
and deterministic theory of fluid flow and contaminant transport in saturated
and unsaturated heterogeneous porous media, theory of related measurements,
field and laboratory studies in subsurface hydrology, stochastic...

### Gabriel G. Katul

Theodore S. Coile Distinguished Professor of Hydrology and Micrometeorology

Research Interests: Describing the reciprocal influences between the biosphere
and the atmosphere are becoming a scientific imperative as human-induced
changes in land surface characteristics are impacting the composition of the
atmosphere, which in turn is threatening to excite changes in weather...

### David F. Katz

Nello L. Teer, Jr. Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering, in the
Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School of Engineering

Research Interests: Methods for prophylaxis against STD's, emphasizing topical
microbicides and contraception; biofluid mechanics; rheology and transport
phenomena; biophysical aspects of mammalian sperm motility, sperm transport,
and fertilization; and biomechanical functioning of the vitreous of...

### Cameron M Kim

Assistant Professor of the Practice in the Department of Biomedical
Engineering

### Jungsang Kim

Schiciano Family Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer
Engineering

Research Interests: Quantum Computing with Trapped Ions, Quantum Information
Science, Novel Photonic Devices, Application of Quantum Computers

### Josiah D. Knight

Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Fluid mechanics, thermodynamics, heat transfer, and
dynamics

### Jeffrey L. Krolik

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Physics-based and statistical signal processing, sensor
array processing, radar and sonar systems, pervasive distributed processing

### Aaron M Kyle

Professor of the Practice in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

### Hai "Helen" Li

Clare Boothe Luce Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Neuromorphic computing systems Machine learning
acceleration and trustworthy AIEmerging memory technologies, circuit and
architecture Low power circuits and systems

### Xin Li

Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Integrated circuits, signal processing and data analytics

### Genevieve Lipp

Assistant Professor of the Practice in the Department of Electrical and
Computer Engineering

### Natalia Litchinitser

Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Nanophotonics; Photonic Metamaterials; Nonlinear Optics;
Fiber Optics; Photonic Crystal Fibers

### Qing Huo Liu

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Computational electromagnetics and acoustics; inverse
problems, and their application in geophysics, nanophotonics, and biomedical
imaging

### Jerome Peter Lynch

Vinik Dean of Engineering

Research Interests: Prof. Lynch's research interests are in advancing cyber-
physical system architectures that combine sensing, computing, and control to
create intelligent civil infrastructure systems. He is best known for his
research portfolio in structural health monitoring (SHM) that...

### Michael D Lynch

Associate Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Focused on genetically engineering microbes to shut off
their growth circuits and turn on new pathways to produce different
compounds—improving production of biofuels, pharmacological molecules and
industrial chemicals.

### Brian Mann

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Nonlinear dynamics and vibration utilizing analytical,
numerical, and experimental techniques. Fundamental investigations of
phenomenon and application areas where dynamical systems theory plays an
important role.

### Piotr E. Marszalek

Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Investigating relationships between structural and
mechanical properties of biopolymers (polysaccharides, DNA, proteins), at a
single molecule level.

### Iman Marvian

Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Quantum information and computation theory

### Hisham Z. Massoud

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Ultrathin gate dielectrics for CMOS ULSI – the technology,
physics, modeling, simulation, and characterization of ultrathin-oxide MOSFETs

### Cameron C McIntyre

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Neural engineering, computational neuroscience, brain
imaging, and the design of human neuromodulation systems. Special expertise in
the biophysics of brain stimulation and recording.

### Maiken Mikkelsen

James N. and Elizabeth H. Barton Associate Professor of Electrical and
Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Quantum nanophotonics, plasmonics, light-matter
interactions in artificially structured nanoscale materials, hybrid molecular-
scale materials and spin phenomena in the solid state

### David Mitzi

Simon Family Distinguished Professor

Research Interests: Making emerging photovoltaic materials more effective,
cost-efficient and competitive for the energy market.

### Samira Musah

Assistant Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPS cells), disease
mechanisms, regenerative medicine, molecular and cellular basis of human
kidney development and disease, organ engineering, patient-specific disease
models, biomarkers, therapeutic discovery, tissue and organ
transplantation,...

### Barry S. Myers

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: An expert in head and neck impact injury biomechanics, Dr.
Myers is interested in translational research innovation—overseeing programs
to advance faculty research to market.

### Joseph C. Nadeau

Professor of the Practice in Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Theoretical and applied mechanics, micromechanics,
composite materials, and probabilistic methods

### David Needham

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Needham’s research and development is nothing if it is not
collaborative. Highlights: Anti-cancer drug delivery inspired by how cancer's
survive and spread due to their consumption of Lipoprotein particles from the
blood-stream (LDLs and VLDLs) hence his approach:...

### Xiaoyue Ni

Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Flexible electronics, precision measurement, non-
destructive testing, deformation physics of random media, mechanical
metamaterials, robotic materials and smart structures, machine learning

### Kathryn Radabaugh Nightingale

Theo Pilkington Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Ultrasonic and elasticity imaging, specifically nonlinear
propagation, acoustic streaming and radiation force; the intentional
generation of these phenomena for the purpose of tissue characterization;
finite element modeling of normal and diseased tissue when exposed to...

### Mikhail A. Nikiforov

Professor of Pathology

Research Interests: The main objectives of Professor Nikiforov’s research
program includes identification and therapeutic exploitation of mechanisms
underlying the deregulated transcription programs and metabolism in melanoma
and multiple myeloma, two malignancies with no curative treatment....

### Crystal Noel

Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Quantum computing and simulation with trapped ions,
integrated photonics for scalable trapped ion systems, and electric-field
noise from surfaces

### Loren W. Nolte

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Bayesian approach to signal detection, classification,
estimation, tracking and decision and sensor fusion. Applications in ocean
acoustics, and in medical imaging for cancer research.

### Douglas Nowacek

Randolph K. Repass and Sally-Christine Rodgers University Distinguished
Professor of Conservation Technology in Environment and Engineering

Research Interests: Marine mammal behavioral and acoustic ecologyOcean
noiseOffshore renewable energy

### Siobhan Rigby Oca

Assistant Director for Robotics and Autonomy in the Thomas Lord Department of
Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

### Willie John Padilla

Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Theoretical and experimental investigation of
electromagnetic metamaterials and metasurfaces, and their application to
imaging and sensing at microwave, terahertz, and infrared frequencies

### Miroslav Pajic

Dickinson Family Associate Professor

Research Interests: Design and analysis of autonomous cyber-physical systems
(CPS), and in particular, embedded systems, AI, learning and controls, CPS
security and high-assurance autonomy, with various application domains
including robotics, automotive, and medical systems

### Mark L. Palmeri

Professor of the Practice in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Ultrasonic imaging, specifically using acoustic radiation
force to characterize the mechanical properties of tissue, and finite element
analysis of soft tissue response to impulsive radiation force excitation.
Other research interests include ultrasonic bioeffects and mechanical...

### Christine K. Payne

Yoh Family Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Molecular mechanisms by which cells interact with
materials, specifically nanoparticles and conducting polymers, with
applications in nanomedicine and environmental exposure

### Jian Pei

Professor of Computer Science

### Henry Pfister

Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Information theory, communications, probabilistic
graphical models, machine learning, and deep neural networks

### Nimmi Ramanujam

Robert W. Carr, Jr., Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Innovating on optical strategies to peer into the
biological landscape of thick tissues. Technologies being developed in her lab
leverage principles of optical spectroscopy, optical sectioning microscopy,
and molecular imaging. Her research group is developing and applying these...

### Amanda Randles

Alfred Winborne and Victoria Stover Mordecai Assistant Professor of Biomedical
Sciences

Research Interests: Biomedical simulation and high-performance computing

### Galen Reeves

Associate Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Information theory, high-dimensional statistical
inference, statistical signal processing, compressed sensing, machine learning

### Michael Reiter

James B. Duke Distinguished Professor

Research Interests: Prof. Reiter's research interests include all areas of
computer and communications security, fault-tolerant distributed computing,
and applied cryptography.

### Daniel Reker

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Integration of active machine learning, biomedical data
science, and biochemical experiments for the analysis and design of
personalized therapeutic opportunities.

### Eric S Richardson

Associate Professor of the Practice in the Department of Biomedical
Engineering

Research Interests: Innovation, Medical Device Design, Design Ethnography,
Design Pedagogy, Global Health Technologies, Entrepreneurship.

### Christ D Richmond

Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

### Michael Rizk

Assistant Professor of the Practice of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: First-year engineering education, with a focus on design

### Tania Roy

Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Neuromorphic computing • high-energy electronics

### Michael Rubinstein

Aleksandar S. Vesic Distinguished Professor

Research Interests: Polymer theory and computer simulations

### Cynthia D. Rudin

Earl D. McLean, Jr. Professor

Research Interests: Machine learning, interpretability and transparency of
predictive models, causal inference, energy, criminal justice, healthcare

### Sophia Santillan

Associate Professor of the Practice in the Thomas Lord Department of
Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Engineering education, nonlinear systems, structural
mechanics and numerical methods.

### Guillermo Sapiro

James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Image and video processing, computer vision, computer
graphics, computational vision, biomedical imaging, brain imaging, cryo-
tomography of viruses, computational tools in cryo-tomography, computational
tools in early diagnosis of psychiatric disorders, differential geometry
and...

### Ann Saterbak

Professor of the Practice in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Innovations in undergraduate engineering education,
particularly new pedagogical methods that broaden students’ problem solving
skills and design thinking.

### David E. Schaad

Professor of the Practice of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Sustainable engineering, community development, water and
wastewater treatment design, stormwater retention/detention and treatment
design, hazardous waste remediation, urban hydrology, constructed wetland and
stream restoration design, ecological stabilization, sustainable...

### Guglielmo Scovazzi

Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Finite element methods, computational fluid and solid
mechanics, multiphase porous media flows, computational methods for fluid and
solid materials under extreme load conditions, turbulent flow computations,
instability phenomena.

### Tatiana Segura

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: The design of biomaterials to promote endogenous repair
and reducing inflammation through the design of the geometry of the material,
and delivering genes, proteins and drugs.

### Rebecca Simmons

Associate Professor of the Practice in the Department of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science

### Walter Neal Simmons

Gendell Family Professor of the Practice

### David R. Smith

James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Theory, simulation and demonstration of novel
electromagnetic metamaterials across the spectrum, from microwave through
optical. Applications of metamaterials for antennas and imaging devices, with
a focus on security imaging and satellite imaging. General studies on
advanced...

### Marc A. Sommer

Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Neuronal circuits of the brain, including recording from
single neurons and studying the effects of inactivating or stimulating well-
defined brain areas. His goals are to understand how individual areas process
signals and how multiple areas interact to cause cognition and...

### Daniel J. Sorin

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Computer architecture, designing microarchitectures so
that they are easier to verify, improving computer system fault tolerance,
developing memory systems for multicore processors, and designing special-
purpose accelerators

### Adrienne Stiff-Roberts

Jeffrey N. Vinik Professor

Research Interests: Thin-film deposition, MAPLE, hybrid perovskites, hybrid
nanocomposites, organic thin films

### Michael Raphael Tadross

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Our goal is to bridge the gap between the study of brain
as a computational device and the search for novel neuropathological
treatments. We develop technologies to manipulate molecules, cells, and
synapses in the brain, and deploy these reagents in mouse models of disease.

### Stacy L. Tantum

Associate Professor of the Practice in the Department of Electrical and
Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Signal detection and estimation theory, statistical signal
processing, pattern recognition and machine learning, remote sensing, matched-
field processing, and ocean acoustics

### Vahid Tarokh

Rhodes Family Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Foundations of AI, Foundations of Signal Processing,
Learning Representations, Transfer Learning, Meta-Learning, Physics Infused
Learning, Extreme Value Theory, Dependence Modeling, Hypothesis Testing,
Sequential Analysis.

### Gregg E. Trahey

Robert Plonsey Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Medical ultrasound, image guided surgery, adaptive
imaging, imaging of tissue's mechanical properties, and radiation force
imaging.

### Kishor S. Trivedi

Hudson Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Markov models, Fault trees, Stochastic Petri nets,
Reliability Modeling, Availability Modeling, Performability modeling,
Survivability modeling, Cyber Security, Software reliability, Software Fault
Tolerance, Software Aging and Rejuvenation

### George A. Truskey

R. Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Distinguished Professor of Biomedical
Engineering

Research Interests: Cardiovascular tissue engineering, mechanisms of
atherogenesis, cell adhesion, and cell biomechanics.

### Shyni Varghese

Professor of Biomedical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering & Materials
Science and Orthopaedics

Research Interests: Musculoskeletal tissue repair, disease biophysics and
organ-on-a-chip technology

### Manolis Veveakis

Associate Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Theoretical and applied mechanics, Geomechanics,
Irreversible Thermodynamics. Emphasis on the multiphysical modelling of
plasticity of solids, solid-fluid interactions, friction laws and rheology of
geomaterials

### Lawrence N. Virgin

Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Study of the behavior of nonlinear dynamical systems,
including the investigation of the fundamental nature of nonlinear systems
based on a mathematical description of their underlying equations of motion
and the application of recent results from nonlinear dynamical systems...

### Jonathan Viventi

Assistant Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Using flexible electronics to create new technology for
interfacing with the brain at high resolution over large areas. These new
tools can help diagnose and treat neurological disorders such as epilepsy, and
help improve the performance of brain machine interfaces.

### Tuan Vo-Dinh

R. Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Distinguished Professor of Biomedical
Engineering

Research Interests: Biophotonics, laser-excited luminescence spectroscopy,
room temperature phosphorimetry, synchronous luminescence spectroscopy,
surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy, field environmental instrumentation,
fiberoptics sensors, nanosensors, biosensors and biochips for the
protection...

### Olaf T. Von Ramm

Thomas Lord Distinguished Professor of Engineering

Research Interests: Diagnostic ultrasound imaging systems, IR imaging, medical
instrumentation and their new applications.

### Adam P. Wax

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Optical spectroscopy for early cancer detection, novel
microscopy and interferometry techniques.

### Mark Wiesner

James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Research Interests: Membrane processes, nanostructured materials, transport
and fate of nanomaterials in the environment, colloidal and interfacial
processes, and environmental systems analysis

### Lisa Wills

Clare Boothe Luce Assistant Professor of Computer Science and Electrical and
Computer Engineering

Research Interests: I enjoy solving difficult problems surrounding
computations with the goal to process large volumes of data efficiently. My
research interests include computer architecture and microarchitecture,
hardware-software co-designs, accelerators, and emerging application...

### Patrick D. Wolf

Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Advanced instrumentation for diagnosis and treatment of
electrophysiological problems. This research covers two primary organ systems:
the heart and the brain. In the heart, Dr. Wolf is developing an image guided
ablation system for treatment of arrhythmias. In the brain, he is...

### Junjie Yao

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Photoacoustic tomography (PAT) technologies, and
translating PAT advances into diagnostic and therapeutic applications,
especially in functional brain imaging and early cancer theranostics.

### Lingchong You

James L. Meriam Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Quantitative biology, synthetic biology, machine learning,
antibiotic resistance, microbiome

### Rabih Younes

Assistant Professor of the Practice in the Department of Electrical and
Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Wearable computing, activity recognition, context
awareness, machine learning, artificial intelligence, engineering education,
and Middle Eastern politics

### Fan Yuan

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Principles and mechanisms of delivery for drugs, genes,
and vaccines; pharmacokinetics; electrotransfer or electroporation technology;
and tumor pathophysiology.

### Stefan Zauscher

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Nano-mechanical and nano-tribological characterization
(elasticity, friction, adhesion) of materials including organic thin films;
self-assembled monolayers, polymeric gels, and cellulosics; Fabrication of
polymeric nanostructures by scanning probe lithography; Colloidal probe...

### Michael Zavlanos

Yoh Family Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Control theory, optimization, and learning; in particular,
robotics and autonomous systems, networked and distributed control systems,
and cyber-physical systems.

### Pei Zhong

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Mechanistic investigation and technology development in
shock wave and laser lithotripsy; Ultrasound-elicited mechanotransduction,
neuromodulation and sonogenetics; HIFU and immunotherapy for cancer treatment;
Acoustic and optical cavitation.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

