

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About

# Engineering in Service to Society

Duke Engineering is dedicated to building purposeful partnerships to solve
complex societal challenges—locally and globally.

We share research discoveries, design solutions to community needs, and
inspire the next generation of problem-solvers and innovators.

## By the Numbers

‌

**100+** community events led each year by Duke Engineering

‌

**2,000+** K-12 students engaged in STEM programs each year

‌

**~11,000** DukeEngage service hours volunteered each year by engineering
students

‌

**25%** of Duke Engineering students participate in service-learning courses

‌

**> 50%** of Duke Engineering students volunteer in the US, and 25% abroad

‌

**4** engineering courses with service-learning components

## Explore Our Outreach

Filter by Location

Durham

North Carolina

United States

International

Filter by Theme

Designing solutions

Supporting STEM in K-12 schools

Building the pipeline of future engineers

Strengthening partnerships

### NSF Summer Research Experience for Teachers

K-12 and community college teachers spend five summer weeks working in
microbiome science and engineering labs and developing lesson plans

### Outreach Design Education @ Duke

Through hands-on opportunities, K-12 students learn basic engineering skills
and then use them to identify problems and design solutions.

### Interactive Lab Tours: Nanotechnology & Imaging

Duke's state-of-the-science nanotech lab invites K-12 teachers and students to
see an electron microscope in action or suit up for a visit to the cleanroom.

### Duke Summer STEM Academy

A three-week summer program for high school students to establish a tech
talent pipeline for the Research Triangle Region.

### After-School Robotics Club

A partnership with public middle schools in Durham County. A three-month pilot
concluded in spring 2022.

### Entrepreneurial Training For Durham Youth

Partnership with Durham Success Summit teaching innovation skills as part of a
12-week mentorship experience for young Black men.

### Public Policy Fellowships for Engineers

Candidates for PhDs in engineering receive tuition and stipends to support
internships with public policy or nonprofit organizations.

### Duke Research in Engineering Program

A seven-week summer experience for Durham Public Schools juniors and seniors
interested in engineering and science.

### Duke Design Health Fellows

Assembles teams from across engineering, business and medicine at Duke to
create solutions to unmet needs in health care.

### Project Tadpole

Student members modify and fix toys for physically challenged children.

### Devices for People With Disabilities

Taught by an instructor recognized by Duke for service-learning innovation,
students create custom assistive devices for individuals.

### Bull City Classrooms

Connecting volunteers with public schools in Durham, NC. Founded by
engineering PhD student Anish Simhal.

### Duke Smart Home

A live-in laboratory and community demonstration project of energy efficiency
and sustainable technology.

### Boeing Grand Challenges K-12 Outreach Fellows

Student-led program brings hands-on activities into classrooms in Durham and
Orange counties.

### Certificate in Global Development Engineering

Students study culture and ethics before completing a hands-on engineering
project.

### Doing Good in the Neighborhood

Through coordinated giving, faculty and staff donors support 60+ organizations
in four NC counties.

### Duke Blueprint

A student-led conference that develops actionable ideas to address critical
environmental challenges.

### Duke Engineers for International Development

Partnering with communities to engineer solutions that improve living
standards.

### DukeEngage

Students address human needs through a summer of service in the U.S. and
abroad.

### eNable

Using 3D printing technology, students create adaptive devices for amputees.

### Engineering Graduate Student Community Service

Student leaders organize service opportunities with community partners.

### Engineering World Health

The Duke EWH chapter has built a close relationship with a hospital in Xela,
Guatemala.

### Females Excelling More in Math, Engineering, and Science

FEMMES is student-led, with a mission to engage young girls in STEM fields
through hands-on activities and mentorship.

### Girl Scouts STEM Day @ Duke

An annual event demonstrating STEM career possibilities through a day of
hands-on fun for more than 140 middle schoolers and high schoolers

### Global Women’s Health Technologies

Creating solutions to address challenges in women’s health, and inspire the
next generation of health leaders.

### HackDuke

An annual 24-hour coding sprint focused on solutions to societal challenges.

### Hands-On Experiences: Lasers, Lenses & Light

Our Fitzpatrick Institute of Photonics and Duke Optical Student Club provide
lab tours and science demonstrations to middle school students

### Nanotechnology-themed lesson plans for K-12

Provided to educators free of charge through Duke's membership in the Research
Triangle Nanotechnology Network.

### NC Polyfluorinated Alkyl Substance Testing Network

Detecting contaminants in drinking water, with partners UNC-Chapel Hill and
state government.

### Reinventing the Toilet

Duke is home to two efforts funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
aiming to improve the health of billions.

### Service-Learning Courses

Students explore ethics and culture while creating custom solutions for
neighbors in need.

### Student Engineers Network-Strengthening Opportunities in Research

SENSOR engages underrepresented eighth grade students in science.

### The Chesterfield in Downtown Durham, NC

An empty cigarette factory was reborn as a hub for scientific discovery and
entrepreneurship.

### Triangle Women in STEM

Promoting inclusion in STEM, with partner tech firms, NC State University,
UNC-Chapel Hill and Campbell University.

### First-Year Design: Community Clients

Students design solutions for needs expressed by community organizations
working in education, health care, the environment, and more.

## Our Latest Service Stories

March 20, 2023

### Duke Engineering-Mentored High School Robotics Team Earns Trip to State
Championship

March 20, 2023 | Bass Connections

### Taking the Bull City by the Horns

March 14, 2023

### Outreach Design Education Launches in Duke BME

November 11, 2022

### Army Officer/Duke Engineer Aiming to Strengthen Fleet Maintenance with AI

View all service news

* * *

## Additional Resources

### Duke Engineering

Biomedical Engineering

Civil & Environmental Engineering

Electrical & Computer Engineering

Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science

Service-Learning Courses in Engineering

### Duke University

Durham & Regional Affairs

Duke Global Affairs

Service-Learning at Duke

Connect with us

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

