

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# Meet Our New Faculty for 2014-2015

Meet faculty joining the Pratt School of Engineering during the 2014-2015
academic year

###

### Michael Bergin: Studying Tiny Particles with a Giant Global Impact

Michael Bergin studies the environmental and human health effects of natural
and manmade microscopic particles floating all around the Earth’s atmosphere.
Ranging in size from a few nanometers to tens of microns, particulate matter
can be released into the air through everything from the burning of fossil
fuels to the kicking up of mass quantities of dust.

### Sina Farsiu: Processing an Avalanche of Images

Sina Farsiu wants to figure out how to peer into your soul . . . or at least
your brain. An expert in designing computer image processing algorithms,
Farsiu is an assistant professor of ophthalmology at Duke Medicine who
recently accepted a primary appointment in the Pratt biomedical engineering
department with the hopes of strengthening collaborations across the
university.

### Aaron Franklin: Replacing Silicon Electronics with Nanomaterials

Aaron Franklin has joined the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering at Duke, with a joint appointment in the Department of Chemistry.
Leaving IBM’s research enterprise for a professorship, Franklin will continue
his research into semiconducting nanomaterials and printable electronics.

### Ken Gall: Making Materials for Biomedical Applications

Ken Gall will join the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science as both a professor and its chair. As an entrepreneur and former
startup leader, he plans to help grow the department while offering faculty
opportunities to bring technologies to market.

### Yiyang Gong: Lighting Up Brain Activity

Yiyang Gong will join the faculty of the biomedical engineering department in
Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering beginning November 1, 2014. An
expert in nanophotonics, Gong is developing genetic sensors that literally
light up the brain.

### Joel Greenberg: Spotting Explosives and Tumors

Joel Greenberg has been named an assistant research professor in Duke’s
Department of Electrical and computer Engineering. As a former research
scientist in the department and member of the Duke Imaging and Spectroscopy
Program (DISP), he will continue leading a project he has been working on
since 2012—developing new ways to use x-rays to peer inside suitcases.

### Kris Hauser: Building Smarter Robots

Kris Hauser, an expert in computer science, informatics and robotics, joined
both the electrical and computer engineering department and the mechanical
engineering and materials science department in Duke University’s Pratt School
of Engineering on August 3, 2014. Part of a steadily expanding robotics group
on campus, he focuses on the planning and control of autonomous robots.

### George Konidaris: Also Building Smarter Robots

George Konidaris, a specialist in artificial intelligence and computer
science, joined the electrical and computer engineering department on
September 1, 2014. With a dual appointment in the department of computer
science, his research will focus on reinforcement learning, mobile
manipulation, intelligent robotics, and effective learning and planning for
control in unstructured environments.

### Michael Lynch: Bending Microbial Metabolisms

Michael Lynch, an expert in genetic engineering and using microbes to produce
useful chemicals, has joined the Department of Biomedical Engineering at Duke
University. Previously the founder and chief science officer at OPX
Biotechnologies, Inc., Lynch will continue his research into engineering
microbial metabolism to be useful in a variety of applications.

### David Mitzi: Harvesting More of the Sun’s Shine

David Mitzi, an expert in developing new materials for solar cell and other
energy applications, has joined the mechanical engineering and materials
science department at Duke University. His research will focus on making
emerging photovoltaic materials more effective, cost-efficient and competitive
for the market.

### Willie Padilla: Exploring Technology’s 'Terahertz Gap'

Metamaterials expert Willie Padilla has joined the electrical and computer
engineering department of Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering.
Adding to one of the nation’s largest corps of faculty working with
metamaterials, Padilla focuses on developing techniques and devices that work
in the terahertz range of the electromagnetic spectrum—the new frontier of the
information age.

### Miroslav Pajic: Making Smart Systems that Interact with the World

Miroslav Pajic, an expert in cyber-physical systems, will join Duke as an
assistant professor in July 2015. With a history of making the electronics
embedded in the world around us connect and work together to safely interact
with the physical world, Pajic will continue his focus on biomedical and
automotive environments.

### Henry Pfister: Inferring Answers through Graphical Models

Henry Pfister recently joined both the electrical and computer engineering
department in Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering as well as the
interdisciplinary Information Initiative at Duke (iiD). An expert in
extracting information from both mountains and molehills of data, he will
tackle informatics challenges in realms such as personalized health care,
compressed sensing and wireless communications.

### Jonathan Viventi: Engineering HD Brain Interfaces

Jonathan Viventi will join the biomedical engineering department in Duke
University’s Pratt School of Engineering in November 2014. After helping to
develop the technology behind 4G cellular networks, he decided to use his
knowledge of advanced wireless and electronic devices to try to tap into a
much faster network—the human brain.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

