

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Faculty Profiles

# Meet Our New Faculty for 2018-2019

Duke Engineering is an ambitious community where the best and brightest minds
are invited to devise creative solutions to the world’s greatest challenges.
With 9 outstanding new faculty joining us in 2018-2019, we continue to add
depth and breadth to our research focus areas, while enhancing teaching and
mentorship for our students. Learn more about the exciting work of our newest
faculty members in the profiles below.

## Data Science, Advanced Computing & Intelligent Systems

### Nathaniel Chaney: Harnessing Petabytes to Better Understand the Global
Water Cycle

_Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering (August 2018)_

With research focused on analyzing massive amounts of data to better
understand the Earth’s hydrological cycle, Chaney looks to increase the
precision of weather forecasts and improve the prediction of droughts and
floods.

### Jessilyn Dunn: Gaining Insights from Biomedical Big Data

_Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering and of Biostatistics &
Bioinformatics (January 2019)_

With research centered on using large-scale biomedical data sets to determine
positive health outcomes, Dunn will contribute to the growing focus on
biomedical and health data sciences at Duke.

### Maria Gorlatova: Creating an Intelligent Internet of Things

_Assistant Professor of Electrical & Computer Engineering (July 2018)_

With both industry and academic experience making connected devices smarter,
more secure and more responsive, Gorlatova adds a new and exciting dimension
to Duke Engineering’s growing expertise in developing tomorrow's technologies.

### Natasha Litchinitser: Structuring Materials to Control Light

_Professor of Electrical & Computer Engineering (August 2018)_

With a strong portfolio of past and current projects that seek to manipulate
light through engineered materials, Litchinitser joins a formidable group of
researchers studying metamaterials at Duke.

### Rabih Younes: Integrating Machine Learning with Motion-Capturing Wearable
Devices

_Assistant Professor of the Practice of Electrical & Computer Engineering
(July 2018)_

Younes specializes in using machine learning techniques to tease out detailed
information about people's activities from advanced wearable motion-capturing
technologies.

## Resilient Systems & the Environment  

### Nathaniel Chaney: Harnessing Petabytes to Better Understand the Global
Water Cycle

_Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering (August 2018)_

With research focused on analyzing massive amounts of data to better
understand the Earth's hydrological cycle, Chaney looks to increase the
precision of weather forecasts and improve the prediction of droughts and
floods.

## Materials Development & Discovery

### Po-Chun Hsu: Modeling Soft Matter with Hard Calculations

_Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science (July
2017)_

Part of a string of recent hires focusing on wearable technology, Hsu develops
nanofabricated materials with tailored heat transmission properties for
applications ranging from walking down the street to walking on Mars.

### Natasha Litchinitser: Structuring Materials to Control Light

_Professor of Electrical & Computer Engineering (August 2018)_

With a strong portfolio of past and current projects that seek to manipulate
light through engineered materials, Litchinitser joins a formidable group of
researchers studying metamaterials at Duke.

## Personal, Environmental & Population Health Design

### Jessilyn Dunn: Gaining Insights from Biomedical Big Data

_Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering and of Biostatistics &
Bioinformatics (January 2019)_

With research centered on using large-scale biomedical data sets to determine
positive health outcomes, Dunn will contribute to the growing focus on
biomedical and health data sciences at Duke.

### Roarke Horstmeyer: Innovating the Future of Microscopy

_Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering (July 2018)_

Roarke Horstmeyer is interested in exploring new ways to capture and process
biomedical images. He develops microscopes, cameras and computer algorithms
for a wide range of applications, from forming 3D reconstructions of organisms
to detecting neurons deep within tissue. His work lies at the intersection of
optics, biology, signal processing and optimization.

### Samira Musah: Engineering Stem Cell Fate for Applications in Kidney
Disease

_Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, Dermatology and Neurology
(January 2019)_

With research at the intersection of stem cell biology and organ engineering,
Musah will use her new role at Duke to explore how molecular signals and
biophysical forces can guide organ development and treat human disease.

### Eric Richardson: Creating New Opportunities through Engineering Design

_Associate Professor of the Practice of Biomedical Engineering (July 2018)_

Richardson is leveraging his background in design, industry and global health
to craft innovative design programs for biomedical engineering seniors,
graduate students and other trainees across Duke.

## New Faculty by Department

### Biomedical Engineering

  * Roarke Horstmeyer
  * Jessilyn Dunn
  * Samira Musah
  * Eric Richardson

### Civil & Environmental Engineering

  * Nathaniel Chaney

### Electrical & Computer Engineering

  * Maria Gorlatova
  * Natasha Litchinitser
  * Rabih Younes

### Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science

  * Po-Chun Hsu

## New Faculty

  * 2022-2023
  * 2021-2022
  * 2020-2021
  * 2019-2020
  * 2018-2019

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

