Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Graduate Course Descriptions

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Graduate

_Note: Duke CEE graduate students may also take courses from other engineering
departments within Duke's Pratt School of Engineering and from other
professional schools at Duke with the permission of their advisor and the
Director of Graduate Studies._

**CEE 307(207). Transport Phenomena in Biological Systems.** An introduction
to the modeling of complex biological systems using principles of transport
phenomena and biochemical kinetics. topics include the conservation of mass
and momentum using differential and integral balances; rheology of Newtonian
and non-Newtonian fluids; steady and transient diffusion in reacting systems;
dimensional analysis; homogeneous versus heterogeneous reaction systems.
Biomedical and Biotechnological applications are discussed. Instructor: Katz,
Truskey, or Yuan. 3 units. C-L: see Biomedical Engineering 307(207); also C-L:
Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science 307(207).

### Registration Links

  * Duke Hub
  * Registrar's Schedule of Courses
  * Academic Calendar
  * Graduate Bulletin
  * Inter-Institutional Registration
  * Course Withdrawal Form
  * Registrar's Office
  * Sakai

**CEE 520(201). Continuum Mechanics.** Tensor fields and index notation.
Analysis of states of stress and strain. Conservation laws and field
equations. Constitutive equations for elastic, viscoelastic, and elastic-
plastic solids. Formulation and solution of simple problems in elasticity,
viscoelasticity, and plasticity. Instructors: Hueckel, or Nadeau. 3 units.  
  
**CEE 521(206). Elasticity.** Linear elasticity will be emphasized including
concepts of stress and strain as second order tensors, equilibrium at the
boundary and within the body, and compatibility of strains. Generalized
solution to two and three dimensional problems will be derived and applied to
classical problems including torsion of noncircular sections, bending of
curved beams, stress concentrations and contact problems. Applications of
elasticity solutions to contemporary problem in civil and biomedical
engineering will be discussed. 3 units. C-L: see Biomedical Engineering
526(206). ****

**CEE 525(272). Wave Propagation in Elastic and Poroelastic Media.** Basic
theory, methods of solution, and applications involving wave propagation in
elastic and poroelastic media. Analytical and numerical solution of
corresponding equations of motion. Linear elasticity and viscoelasticity as
applied to porous media. Effective medium, soil/rock materials as composite
materials. Gassmann's equations and Biot's theory for poroelastic media.
Stiffness and damping characteristics of poroelastic materials. Review of
engineering applications that include NDT, geotechnical and geophysical case
histories. Prerequisite: Mathematics 353(108) or consent of instructor.
Instructor: Boadu. 3 units.

**CEE 530(254). Introduction to the Finite Element Method.** Investigation of
the finite element method as a numerical technique for solving linear ordinary
and partial differential equations, using rod and beam theory, heat
conduction, elastostatics and dynamics, and advective/diffusive transport as
sample systems. Emphasis placed on formulation and programming of finite
element models, along with critical evaluation of results. Topics include:
Galerkin and weighted residual approaches, virtual work principles,
discretization, element design and evaluation, mixed formulations, and
transient analysis. Prerequisites: a working knowledge of ordinary and partial
differential equations, numerical methods, and programming in FORTRAN.
Instructor: Dolbow and Laursen. 3 units.

**CEE 541(283). Structural Dynamics.** Formulation of dynamic models for
discrete and continuous structures; normal mode analysis, deterministic and
stochastic responses to shocks and environmental loading (earthquakes, winds,
and waves); introduction to nonlinear dynamic systems, analysis and stability
of structural components (beams and cables and large systems such as offshore
towers, moored ships, and floating platforms). Instructor: Gavin. One course.

**CEE 560(208). Environmental Transport Phenomena.** Introduction to
environmental modeling, fluid flow and mass and heat transfer. Conservation
principles in the atmosphere and bodies of water, fundamental equations for
transport in the atmosphere and bodies of water, scaling principles,
simplification, turbulence, turbulent transport, Lagrangian transport,
applications to transport of particles in water, from volcanoes and stacks,
case studies: volcanic eruption, Chernobyl accident, forest fires and Toms
River power plant emission. Instructor: Wiesner. 3 units.  
  
 **CEE 561(242). Environmental Aquatic Chemistry.** Principles of chemical
equilibria and kinetics applied to quantitative description of the chemistry
of lakes, rivers, oceans, groundwater, and selected treatment processes.
Equilibrium and steady state models applied to processes such as acid-base
chemistry, the carbonate system, coordination chemistry, precipitation and
dissolution, oxidation-reduction, and adsorption. Instructor: Hsu-Kim. 3
units.  
  
 **CEE 562(244). Biological Processes in Environmental Engineering.**
Biological processes as they relate to environmental systems, including
wastewater treatment and bioremediation. Concepts of microbiology, chemical
engineering, stoichemistry, and kinetics of complex microbial metabolism, and
process analyses. Specific processes discussed include carbon oxidation,
nitrification/denitrification, phosphorus removal, methane production, and
fermentation. Consent of instructor required. Instructor: Deshusses. 3 units.

**CEE 563(240). Chemical Fate of Organic Compounds.** Equilibrium, kinetic and
analytical approaches applied to quantitative description of processes
affecting the distribution and fate of anthropogenic and natural organic
compounds in surface and groundwater, including chemical transfers between
air, water, soils/ sediments, and biota; and thermochemical and photochemical
transformations. The relationships between organic compound structure and
environmental behavior will be emphasized. Sampling, detection, identification
and quantification of organic compounds in the environment. Prerequisites:
university-level general chemistry and organic chemistry within last four
years. Instructors: Stapleton. 3 units. C-L: see Environment 540(240)  
  
 **CEE 564(241). Physical-Chemical Processes In Environmental Engineering.**
Principles of surface chemistry, particle and solute separation, and
oxidation/ disinfection, gas tranfer, precipitation, adsorption, membrane
processes. Applications to potable water treatment, fuel cells, photovoltaics,
treatment of aqueous streams in energy production, hazardous waste treatment
and ground water remediation. Prerequisites: Environmental Transport Phenomena
recommended, but not required. introductory environmental engineering,
chemistry, or permission of instructor. Instructor: Wiesner. 3 units.

**CEE 566(250). Environmental Microbiology.** Fundamentals of microbiology and
biochemistry as they apply to environmental engineering. General topics
include cell chemistry, microbial metabolism, bioenergetics, microbial ecology
and pollutant biodegradation. Prerequisites: CE 462L(124L) or graduate
standing or consent of the instructor. Instructor: Gunsch. 3 units.

**CEE 575(247). Air Pollution Control Engineering.** The problems of air
pollution with reference to public health and environmental effects.
Measurement and meteorology. Air pollution control engineering: mechanical,
chemical, and biological processes and technologies. Instructor: Khlystov. 3
units.

**CEE 581(245). Pollutant Transport Systems.** Distribution of pollutants in
natural waters and the atmosphere; diffusive and advective transport phenomena
within the natural environment and through artificial conduits and
storage/treatment systems. Analytical and numerical prediction methods.
Prerequisites: Civil Engineering 301L(122L) and Mathematics 353(108) or
equivalents. Instructor: Medina. 3 units.

**CEE 585(260). Vadose Zone Hydrology.** Transport of fluids, heat, and
contaminants through unsaturated porous media. Understanding the physical laws
and mathematical modeling of relevant processes. Field and laboratory
measurements of moisture content and matric potential. Prerequisites: Civil
Engineering 301L(122L) and Mathematics 353(108), or consent of instructor.
Instructor: Kabala. 3 units.

**CEE 621(203). Plasticity.** Inelastic behavior of soils and engineering
materials. Yield criteria. Flow rules. Concepts of perfect plasticity and
plastic hardening. Methods of rigid-plasticity. Limit analysis. Isotropic and
kinematic hardening. Plastic softening. Diffused damage. Thermo-plasticity.
Visco-plasticity. Prerequisite: Civil Engineering 520(201) or consent of
instructor. Instructor: Hueckel. 3 units.  
  
 **CEE 622(212). Fracture Mechanics.** Theoretical concepts concerning the
fracture and failure of brittle and ductile materials. Orowan and Griffith
approaches to strength. Determination of stress intensity factors using
compliance method, weight function method, and numerical methods with
conservation laws. Cohesive zone models, fracture toughness, crack growth
stability, and plasticity. Prerequisites: CE 520(201) or instructor consent.
Instructor: Dolbow. 3 units.  
  
 **CEE 623(205). Mechanics of Composite Materials.** Theory and application of
effective medium, or homogenization, theories to predict macroscopic
properties of composite materials based on microstructural characterizations.
Effective elasticity, thermal expansion, moisture swelling, and transport
properties, among others, are presented along with associated bounds such as
Voigt/Reuss and Hashin-Shtrikman. Specific theories include Eshelby, Mori-
Tanaka, Kuster-Toksoz, self-consistent, generalized self-consistent,
differential method, and composite sphere and cylinder assemblages. Tensor-to-
matrix mappings, orientational averaging, and texture analysis. Composite
laminated plates, environmentally induced stresses, and failure theories.
Prerequisite: Civil Engineering 520(201) or consent of instructor. Instructor:
Nadeau. 3 units.

**CEE 625(210). Intermediate Dynamics.** Comprehensive treatment of the
dynamic motion of particles and rigid bodies with an introduction to nonlinear
dynamics and the vibration of continuous systems. Topics include: conservation
of linear and angular momentum, superposition applied to linear systems,
motion in inertial and noninertial frames of reference, Hamilton's principle
and Langrange's equations, and generalized coordinates. Instructor: Hall or
Knight. 3 units. C-L: see Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science
541(210).

**CEE 626(211). Energy Flow and Wave Propagation in Elastic Solids.**
Derivation of equations for wave motion in simple structural shapes: strings,
longitudinal rods, beams and membranes, plates and shells. Solution
techniques, analysis of systems behavior. Topics covered include:
nondispersive and dispersive waves, multiple wave types (dilational,
distortion), group velocity, impedance concepts including driving point
impedances and moment impedances. Power and energy for different cases of wave
propagation. Prerequisites: Engineering 244L(123L) and Mathematics 353(108) or
consent of instructor. Instructor: Franzoni. 3 units. C-L: Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science 543(234) **.**

**CEE 630(255). Nonlinear Finite Element Analysis.** Formulation and solution
of nonlinear initial/boundary value problems using the finite element method.
Systems include nonlinear heat conduction/diffusion, geometrically nonlinear
solid and structural mechanics applications, and materially nonlinear systems
(for example, elastoplasticity). Emphasis on development of variational
principles for nonlinear problems, finite element discretization, and
equation-solving strategies for discrete nonlinear equation systems. Topics
include: Newton-Raphson techniques, quasi-Newton iteration schemes, solution
of nonlinear transient problems, and treatment of constraints in a nonlinear
framework. An independent project, proposed by the student, is required.
Prerequisite: Civil Engineering 530(254) or consent of instructor. Instructor:
Laursen. 3 units.

**CEE 635(256). Computational Methods for Evolving Discontinuities.** Presents
an overview of advanced nomenical methods for the treatment of engineering
problems such as brittle and ductile failure and solid-liquid phase
transformations in pure substances. Analytical methods for arbitrary
discontinuities and interfaces are reviewed, with particular attention to the
derivation of jump conditions. Partition of unity and level set methods.
Prerequisites: CE 530(254), CE 630(255), or instructor consent. Instructor:
Dolbow. 3 units.

**CEE 641(237). Advanced Soil Mechanics.** Characterization of behavior of
geomaterials. Stress strain incremental laws. Nonlinear elasticity, hypo-
elasticity, plasticity and viscoplasticity of geomaterials; approximated laws
of soil mechanics; fluid-saturated soil behavior; cyclic behavior of soils;
liquefaction and cyclic mobility; elements of soil dynamics; thermal effects
on soils. Prerequisite: Civil Engineering 302L(139L) or equivalent.
Instructor: Hueckel. 3 units.  
  
 **CEE 642(238). Environmental Geomechanics.** The course addresses engineered
and natural situations, where mechanical and hydraulic properties of soils and
rocks depend on environmental (thermal chemical, biological) processes.
Experimental findings are reviewed, and modeling of coupled thermo-mechanical,
chemo-mechanical technologies are reviewed. Instructor: Hueckel. 3 units.  
  
 **CEE 643(270). Environmental and Engineering Geophysics.** Use of
geophysical methods for solving engineering and environmental problems.
Theoretical frameworks, techniques, and relevant case histories as applied to
engineering and environmental problems (including groundwater evaluation and
protection, siting of landfills, chemical waste disposals, roads assessments,
foundations investigations for structures, liquefaction and earthquake risk
assessment). Introduction to theory of elasticity and wave propagation in
elastic and poroelastic media, electrical and electromagnetic methods, and
ground penetrating radar technology. Prerequisite: Mathematics 353(108) or
Physics 152L(62L) or consent of instructor. Instructor: Boadu. 3 units.  
  
 **CEE 644(271). Inverse Problems in Geosciences and Engineering.** Basic
concepts, theory, methods of solution, and application of inverse problems in
engineering, groundwater modeling, and applied geophysics. Deterministic and
statistical frameworks for solving inverse problems. Strategies for solving
linear and nonlinear inverse problems. Bayesian approach to nonlinear inverse
problems. Emphasis on the ill-posed problem of inverse solutions. Data
collection strategies in relation to solution of inverse problems. Model
structure identification and parameter estimation procedures. Prerequisite:
Mathematics 353(108) or consent of instructor. Instructor: Boadu. 3 units.

**CEE 647(252). Buckling of Engineering Structures.** An introduction to the
underlying concepts of elastic stability and buckling, development of
differential equation and energy approaches, buckling of common engineering
components including link models, struts, frames, plates, and shells.
Consideration will also be given to inelastic behavior, postbuckling, and
design implications. Prerequisite: Civil Engineering 421L(131L) or consent of
instructor. Instructor: Virgin. 3 units. C-L: Mechanical Engineering and
Materials Science 527(252).

**CEE 661L(239L). Environmental Molecular Biotechnology (GE, MC).** Principles
of genetics and recombinant DNA for environmental systems. Applications to
include genetic engineering for bioremediation, DGGE, FISH, micro-arrays and
biosensors. Laboratory exercises to include DNA isolation, amplification,
manipulation and analysis. Prerequisites: CE 462L(124L)/BIO 201L(25) or
consent of the instructor. Instructor: Gunsch. 3 units. C-L: Biomedical
Engineering 565L(240L).  
  
 **CEE 676(269). Fundamentals and Applications of Advanced Physical-Chemical
Processes in Environmental Systems.** Fundamental basis for design of
membranes systems, applications of environmental nanotechnology, advanced
oxidation, principles of surface chemistry and photcatalysis. Prerequisites:
CE 564(241) or consent of instructor. Instructor: Wiesner. One course.

**CEE 683(227). Groundwater Hydrology and Contaminant Transport.** Review of
surface hydrology and its interaction with groundwater. The nature of porous
media, hydraulic conductivity, and permeability. General hydrodynamic
equations of flow in isotropic and anisotropic media. Water quality standards
and contaminant transport processes: advective-dispersive equation for solute
transport in saturated porous media. Analytical and numerical methods,
selected computer applications. Deterministic versus stochastic models.
Applications: leachate from sanitary landfills, industrial lagoons and ponds,
subsurface wastewater injection, monitoring of groundwater contamination.
Conjunctive surface-subsurface models. Prerequisite: Civil Engineering
463L(123L) or consent of instructor. Instructor: Medina. 3 units.

**CEE 684(224). Physical Hydrology and Hydrometeorology.** The objective of
this course is to introduce and familiarize graduate students with the
fundamental physical processes in Hydrology and Hydrometeorology that control
and modulate the pathways and transformations of water in the environment. The
content of the course will be strongly oriented toward providing students with
a specific basis for quantitative analysis of the terrestrial water cycle
including land-atmosphere interactions and clouds and precipitation (rain and
snow) processes. The course should be of interest to undergraduate and
graduate students interested in Environmental Science and Engineering, and
Atmospheric and Earth Sciences.  
  
 **CEE 686(220). Ecohydrology.** Provides the theoretical basis for
understanding the interaction between hydrologic cycle, vegetation, and soil
biogeochemistry. This is key for a proper management of soil, and water
resources and terrestrial ecosystems especially in view of the possible
intensification and alteration of the hydrologic regime due to climate change.
The course begins with a review of probability and stochastic processes, with
special attention to marked-Poisson processes for daily rainfall modeling,
followed by an analysis of the soil water balance and the probabilistic theory
of soil moisture dynamics. Finally, the main hydrologic controls on soil
biogeochemical cycles and issues related to the ecohydrology of managed
ecosystems are discussed. Prerequisites: Civil Engineering 463L(123L) and
Engineering 305(115) or equivalent. Instructor: Porporato. 3 units.  
  
 **CEE 690(265). Advanced Topics in Civil and Environmental Engineering.**
Opportunity for study of advanced subjects relating to programs within the
civil and environmental engineering department tailored to fit the
requirements of individuals or small groups. Instructor: Staff. Variable
credit.

**CEE 701(301). Graduate Colloquium.** Current topics in civil and
environmental engineering theory and practice. Weekly seminar series.
Instructor: Staff. 0 units.  
  
 **CEE 702(302). Graduate Colloquium.** Current topics in civil and
environmental engineering theory and practice. Weekly seminar series.
Instructor: Staff. 0 units.

**CEE 890(399). Special Readings in Civil and Environmental Engineering.**
Special individual readings in a specific area of study in civil and
environmental engineering. Approval of director of graduate studies required.
1 to 3 units. Instructor: Graduate faculty. Variable credit.

## Other Courses Accepted by the Department

**STA 611(213). Introduction to Statistical Methods.** Emphasis on classical
techniques of hypothesis testing and point and interval estimation, using the
binomial, normal, t, F, and chi-square distributions. Not open to students who
have had Statistical Science 250(114) or Mathematics 342(136). Prerequisite:
Mathematics 212(103) (may be taken concurrently) or equivalent, or consent of
instructor.

**MATH 551(211). Applied Partial Differential Equations and Complex
Variables.** Initial and boundary value problems for the heat and wave
equations in one and several dimensions. Fourier series and integrals,
eigenvalue problems. Laplace transforms, solutions via contour integration,
and elementary complex variables. Solutions via Green's functions. Intended
for applied math students and students in science and engineering.
Prerequisite: Mathematics 216(107) and 353(108) or the equivalent.

**MATH 541(216). Applied Stochastic Processes.** An introduction to stochastic
processes without measure theory. Topics selected from: Markov chains in
discrete and continuous time, queuing theory, branching processes,
martingales, Brownian motion, stochastic calculus. Prerequisite: Mathematics
230(135) or equivalent.

**MATH 561(224). Scientific Computing.** Structured scientific programming in
C/C++ and FORTRAN. Floating point arithmetic and interactive graphics for data
visualization. Numerical linear algebra, direct and iterative methods for
solving linear systems, matrix factorizations, least squares problems and
eigenvalue problems. Iterative methods for nonlinear equations and nonlinear
systems, Newton's method. Prerequisite: Mathematics 212(103) and 230(104).

**MATH 577(229). Mathematical Modeling.** Formulation and analysis of
mathematical models in science and engineering. Emphasis on case studies; may
include individual or team research projects.

**ME 631(226). Intermediate Fluid Mechanics.** A survey of the principal
concepts and equations of fluid mechanics, fluid statics, surface tension, the
Eulerian and Lagrangian description, kinematics, Reynolds transport theorem,
the differential and integral equations of motion, constitutive equations for
a Newtonian fluid, the Navier-Stokes equations, and boundary conditions on
velocity and stress at material interfaces.

**ME 632(227). Advanced Fluid Mechanics.** Flow of a uniform incompressible
viscous fluid. Exact solutions to the Navier-Stokes equation. Similarity
methods. Irrotational flow theory and its applications. Elements of boundary
layer theory. Prerequisite: Mechanical Engineering 631(226) or consent of
instructor.

**ENVIRON 564(282). Biogeochemistry.** Processes controlling the circulation
of carbon and biochemical elements in natural ecosystems and at the global
level, with emphasis on soil and surficial processes. Topics include human
impact on and social consequences of greenhouse gases, ozone, and heavy metals
in the environment. Prerequisite: Chemistry 101DL(31L) or equivalent.

**ENVIRON 710(210). Applied Data Analysis for Environmental Sciences.**
Graphical and exploratory data analysis; modeling, estimation, and hypothesis
testing; analysis of variance; random effect models; nested models; regression
and scatterplot smoothing; resampling and randomization methods. Concepts and
tools involved in data analysis. Special emphasis on examples drawn from the
biological and environmental sciences. Students to be involved in applied work
through statistical computing using software, often S-plus, which will
highlight the usefulness of exploratory methods of data analysis. Other
software, such as SAS, may be introduced.

____

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

