Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# PhD—Doctoral Study

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Graduate

Earn Your Doctorate from a Globally-Ranked Program

The Duke Civil Engineering & Environmental Engineering PhD program offers you
opportunities to develop your research skills in close collaboration with our
world-renowned experts in:

  * Environmental toxicology
  * Computational mechanics
  * Geomechanical modeling and characterization
  * Risk engineering

And, it's all just a part of Duke's uniquely interdisciplinary environment.

How to APPLY

  * Application instructions
  * Application deadlines—all Duke and Duke Engineering PhD programs
  * About the Application Review Process

* * *

## Excellent Outcomes

Our graduates go on to great things. **More than half of Duke CEE PhD grads**
go onto academic careers, many at some of the world's pre-eminent research
institutions. **Over 40 percent** go onto careers and leadership roles in
industry and government.

More about where Duke CEE PhD grads go »

* * *

## Study Tracks

At Duke CEE, you can choose your path from among these study tracks:

  * Computational Mechanics and Scientific Computing
  * Engineering Environmental Geomechanics and Geophysics
  * Systems, Risk and Decision
  * Hydrology and Fluid Dynamics
  * Environmental Health Engineering

* * *

## Degree Requirements

  * 30 units of coursework
  * 2 semesters of teaching assistant experience
  * Dissertation and defense
  * Final examination

* * *

## How to Apply

By choosing Duke, you join an engaged, diverse and welcoming community that
values and supports you. Apply online:

  * Fall semester admission deadlines

How to apply

* * *

## Program Details

Those considering a PhD in civil and environmental engineering should be
individuals interested in specialized research. We provide opportunities for
students to publish with their faculty adviser, to present research at
professional conferences, and to explore their field in a highly
collaborative, cross-disciplinary working environment.

Doctoral (PhD) students admitted to the program can expect to have tuition and
stipend support for the duration of their studies, contingent on demonstrated
progress toward their degrees. The typical doctoral program is five (5) years.

Through programs like PhD Plus, students learn essential skills for their
professional careers. Professional interests most often are realized through
research and technology development careers.

### Benefits for PhD Students

  * Direct admission to a research group
  * 100 percent financial support during the duration of your studies, plus
    national and international travel opportunities
  * Dedicated career development support, such as our innovative PhD Plus
    program
  * Representation in SAGE, our graduate student association

### Day One Mentorship

Advising and early introduction to research and to your research community are
hallmarks of the Duke CEE PhD experience. We believe in mentorship from Day
One!

The process of finding your research adviser begins before you are admitted.
Once you apply, our faculty may contact you. We then invite highly qualified
applicants to interview. You'll meet our faculty and see their labs before a
formal offer is made.

Once you are admitted, we help you assemble your Advising Team. Your team will
include your research adviser, your departmental adviser, the director of
graduate studies, a five-member dissertation committee, and the department
chair.

Our Day One matching of students with research advisers and our strong
mentorship program helps to keep the time to Ph.D. at an average of 4.5 to 5
years, while giving you a team of expert collaborators to guide you toward
your goals.

### Authentic Opportunities to Learn Mentorship Through Mentoring

In preparation for your role as a research mentor, Duke Engineering actively
encourages and supports efforts by its PhD students to mentor undergraduates
in research work.

Our PhD students can register to serve as a mentor and post a research project
to a university-wide directory of research opportunities for undergraduates:
Muser.

As mentors, our PhD students build professional mentoring relationships with
undergraduates, while increasing undergraduate involvement in research—one of
the hallmarks of a Duke Engineering education.

### Welcoming, Inclusive Community

By choosing Duke, you join an engaged, diverse and welcoming community that
values and supports you. You'll notice the importance we place on faculty-
student interaction. And you have representation in SAGE, our graduate student
association.

### World-Class Research

Duke CEE faculty members are engaged in a wide range of efforts to improve the
resilience of engineered structures, develop advanced computer models of
complex natural phenomena and investigate approaches to predicting, monitoring
and managing human impacts on air, water, land and global cycles--and
environmental effects on human health.

Our faculty engineering researchers work closely and collaboratively other
Duke faculty in physics, chemistry, computer science and in the nearby Duke
University Nicholas School of Environment. This breadth of expertise is
reflected in all our research programs listed below. Click to find out more
and read researcher biographies:

#### Research Areas

  * Computational Mechanics and Scientific Computing
  * Environmental Health Engineering
  * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
  * Hydrology and Fluid Dynamics
  * Risk & Resilient Systems

### A Great Location

Our engineering campus is next to one of the nation's leading academic medical
centers. Plus, the Duke campus is just miles from Research Triangle Park
(RTP), home to more than 200 major private tech companies and public agencies
– including a large U.S. Environmental Protection Agency laboratory, a USDA
Forest Service research station, and a location of the National Institute of
Environmental Health Sciences.

Plus, you'll enjoy a mild climate, acclaimed restaurants, a thriving arts
scene and an affordable cost of living. Your Duke degree can take you anywhere
in the United States and beyond. Some students choose to remain in our
Research Triangle region, which is consistently ranked among the best places
to live in the United States.

Visit Duke's website dedicated to all things Durham.

### We Accept Students Without CEE Undergraduate Backgrounds

Admitted students with academic backgrounds outside of civil and environmental
engineering may need to take some CEE undergraduate level courses in order to
be prepared for graduate level coursework. Some of these courses may be
counted towards the MS or PhD degree requirements. Please consult with the
director of graduate studies.

### Study Tracks

This department offers study tracks across both civil and environmental
engineering. Each track is associated with a sequence of regularly-offered
core courses that parallel the research interests of our faculty.

  * Computational Mechanics and Scientific Computing
  * Engineering Environmental Geomechanics and Geophysics
  * Systems, Risk and Decision
  * Hydrology and Fluid Dynamics
  * Environmental Health Engineering

### Degree Requirements

Duke CEE provides a customized, flexible educational experience tailored to
meet your needs in your chosen sub-discipline. In our program, you will
progress from introductory classes to specialized coursework. As you learn,
your focus will gradually shift from coursework to learning important
leadership and research skills.

  * 30 course credits (15 credits from core courses based on study track and
    15 course credits related to the student’s area of research)
  * Strongly encouraged to participate in the department's Graduate Colloquium
  * Establish and meet with Preliminary Exam Committee (PEC) [Download
    Committee approval form]
  * Complete Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) training
  * Pass the Research Proposal Defense [Download Outcome Form]
  * Complete a Teaching Assistantship - TA guidelines
  * Complete and defend a dissertation - [Download Defense forms, dissertation
    guidelines, evaluation rubric]
  * Pass a final examination

In addition to fulfilling departmental course requirements, students are
encouraged to take advantage of the variety of courses across the university
to broaden their education. Such courses do need to be approved by a
preliminary exam committee before the preminary exam is taken, and by the
adviser after this exam.

Students who are pursuing a PhD may, after completing the credit requirements
for the MS degree, formally apply for an MS degree. Typically an MS thesis, a
defense and an MS exam are required. Full tuition payment for a total of five
(5) or six (6) or semesters is required.

### Students Entering with Master of Science (MS) Degree Completed

Students entering the PhD program with an MS degree, can, with approval of the
Preliminary Exam Committee (PEC), the director of graduate studies, and the
dean of The Graduate School, transfer up to 12 relevant course credits from
the previous institution. Full tuition payment for a total of five (5)
semesters is then required.

### Admissions Profile

The Pratt School of Engineering requires a minimum GPA of 3.2 from an
undergraduate program in order to gain admission to the PhD program. A minimum
TOEFL score of 90 on the Internet-based test is also required. Average GRE
scores and UGPA from recent admitted applicants are:

  * GRE Quantitative: 161
  * GRE Verbal: 160
  * UGPA: 3.7

### Preliminary Examination

The format for the preliminary exam is the following:

  * A written test based on core courses taken by the student
  * A five-page minimum written research based proposal by the student, on a
    topic of their choice, which can be started at any time during their stay
    at Duke
  * An oral defense of the research proposal and follow-up questions to their
    answers on the written exam

The Preliminary Exam Committee (PEC) of three (3) faculty members meets with
the student during their first few semesters to review their background, and
make certain that they take courses such that they are prepared for the
written portion of the preliminary exam. The preliminary exam itself is
administered by faculty members in the student's study track.

The oral examination will normally be held before the end of the student's
third semester from matriculation.

Students must ultimately pass each of the three (3) components of the
preliminary exam, but are allowed to retake any portion of the exam, depending
on the support of the faculty.

Students become PhD candidates upon passing a Preliminary Exam, to be
administered by their PhD Committee.

### Graduate Colloquium

In addition to the course credits listed and discussed above, each graduate
student in the department is encouraged to participate in the departmental
seminar called Colloquium on Mechanics and the Environment.

A colloquium consists of a series of seminars and is offered in both the fall
and spring terms. The faculty of the university, visiting scientists, and
senior graduate students give the seminars. Additionally, workshops for PhD
students focused on helping them prepare for the preliminary exam may be
organized as part of these colloquia.

The faculty **strongly** encourages all graduate students to attend as many
Graduate Colloquium seminars as possible, as exposure to novel ideas, research
methodologies, and results from broadly or even remotely related fields is
enriching and stimulating, and develops a critical sense of what constitutes
an effective presentation.

### Research Proposal Defense

The purpose of this defense is to evaluate a student's readiness before
proceeding with doctoral-level research.

A committee must be identified and approved by the director of graduate
studies and The Graduate School at least 30 days in advance.

Parts of the Defense

    

**Part 1: Research Proposal**

The student must submit a Research Proposal, in written form, to all members
of the committee. This document:

  * Defines the objectives of the proposed research
  * Includes a survey and analysis of pertinent literature, with a focus on
    what is apparently missing in the literature and the student's anticipated
    contributions
  * Describes the research tasks to be completed including theory development,
    data collection, analysis, and documentation
  * Suggests a schedule for completion of the research

The goal of this proposal is to successfully provide the groundwork for all
future doctoral research. This Research Proposal should be made available for
review by members of the committee at least seven (7) days prior to the
scheduled oral presentation.

**Part 2: Oral Defense**

The student must provide an oral defense of the Research Proposal detailed in
Part 1. This should take the form of an oral presentation given to all members
of the committee, with the presentation designed to take approximately half an
hour. The committee will evaluate the oral defense, as well as the student's
readiness to undertake the proposed research.

The committee will rely on both parts of the Research Proposal Defense, as
well as grades in graduate courses at Duke, to evaluate the student's
potential to successfully complete the doctoral research program.

The outcome of Part 2 of the Research Proposal Defense is to be determined by
vote of the members of the PhD Committee. Only two outcomes are possible: 1).
The student passes and may continue with the proposed doctoral research; or,
2). The student fails. Students who fail the exam may apply, with the consent
of the committee and the director of graduate studies, for the privilege of a
second examination to be taken no sooner than three (3) months after the date
of the first exam. Successful completion of the second exam requires the
unanimous vote of all PhD Committee members.

Failure on the second examination renders the student ineligible to continue
in the PhD program.

### Teaching Assistantships – Training Provided

All PhD students complete two semesters of Teaching Assistantship (TA) prior
to graduation. We provide training before you enter an undergraduate classroom
for the first time.

It is expected that you will complete this requirement during your third (3rd)
through eighth (8th) semesters. TA assignments will be based on your
background and interests, and department needs.

Teaching Assistantships require 10 hours per week on average, and may involve
organizing and leading discussion sections, grading homework and quizzes,
assisting in the development of course materials and supervising laboratory
sessions. More information

### Final Exam

The final examination is normally administered by the same committee as the
Research Proposal Defense, and successful defense of the dissertation requires
at least four (4) affirmative votes, including the affirmative vote of the
dissertation advisor. A negative vote by the dissertation advisor means that
the student fails.

Details concerning important dates and deadlines, format of the
dissertation/thesis, filing of intention to graduate, committee approval, and
additional details may be found in the Graduate Bulletin or at The Graduate
School website.

____

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## PhD Contacts

### Heileen Hsu-Kim

Professor and Director of Graduate Studies

__919-660-5109

__cee-dgs@duke.edu

### Rocky Rothrock

Program Coordinator

__919-660-5200

__robert.rothrock@duke.edu

  * Quick Facts & Statistics
  * More about Student Services & Amenities
  * Meet Engineering PhD Alumni

Browse Online

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

