Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Graduate Study Tracks

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Graduate

Choose Your Path

Students in Duke CEE's doctoral (PhD) and Master of Science (MS) degree
programs may choose from five engineering study tracks—each one aligned with
faculty research interests:

  * Computational Mechanics and Scientific Computing
  * Environmental Health Engineering
  * Geomechanics and Geophysics for Energy & the Environment
  * Hydrology and Fluid Dynamics
  * Systems, Risk and Decision

_Note: Course waivers require documentation of previous knowledge and written
permission of the CEE Director of Graduate Studies (DGS)._

* * *

## Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing

Encompasses the development and use of computational methods for studying
problems governed by the laws of mechanics. Modern computational mechanics is
embodied in the broad field of computational science and engineering.

This discipline plays a fundamental role in a vast number of many important
problems in science and engineering. Duke has unique facilities and world-
renowned faculty in this area.

Students of computational mechanics at Duke receive premier training in the
core disciplines of applied mathematics, numerical methods, computer science,
and mechanics.

Courses

    

_Students must take a total of at least **five (5) courses** from the set
listed below, with at least one (1) course in each of the four principal
areas:_

#### Mathematics

  * Math 531. Basic Analysis I
  * Math 541. Applied Stochastic Processes
  * Math 551. Applied Partial Differential Equations and Complex Variables
  * Math 561. Scientific Computing I
  * Math 635. Functional Analysis
  * CEE 690. Mathematical Analysis of the Finite Element Method

#### Numerical Methods

  * CEE 530. Introduction to the Finite Element Method
  * CEE 531. Finite Element Methods for Problems in Fluid Mechanics
  * CEE 630. Nonlinear Finite Element Method
  * CEE 690. Numerical Optimization

#### Computer Science

  * CS 201. Data Structures and Algorithms
  * CS 308. Software Design
  * ECE 551D. Programming, Data Structures, and Algorithms in C++

#### Engineering Sciences and Mechanics

  * CEE 520. Continuum Mechanics
  * ME 531. Thermodynamics
  * ME 555. Computational Materials Science
  * ME 631. Intermediate Fluid Dynamics
  * ME 632. Advanced Fluid Dynamics

* * *

## ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH ENGINEERING

Duke's research in environmental health engineering addresses the consequences
of society’s production and use of energy and materials, emphasizing
approaches to protecting the health of human populations and predicting,
monitoring and managing impacts on air, water and other global cycles.

Duke CEE faculty members work closely with Duke's Nicholas School of
Environment in many research and educational efforts.

### Master of Science (MS)

MS students may substitute a core area course with another course in that area
and should obtain permission from the Director or Assistant Director of
Master’s Studies prior to enrollment.

### Doctoral (PhD)

PhD students can modify their course plan from these guidelines and should
consult with their PhD exam committee chair (i.e., advisor). Note that PhD
students will be tested on their proficiency in the core areas during their
PhD exams.

Courses

    

_Students should take at least a total of **five (5) courses** from the lists
below, with at least one (1) course in the core areas of chemical principles,
physical processes, and microbiological processes. _

#### CHEMICAL PRINCIPLES CORE AREA

  * CEE 561L: Environmental Aquatic Chemistry – _Fall_
  * CEE 563: Chemical Fate of Organic Compounds – _Fall_

#### PHYSICAL PROCESSES CORE AREA

  * CEE 560: Environmental Transport Phenomena – _Fall_
  * CEE 5XX/690. Hydrology - _Spring_

#### MICROBIOLOGICAL PRINCIPLES CORE AREA

  * CEE 566: Environmental Microbiology – _Fall_
  * CEE 562L: Biological Processes in Environmental Engineering – _Spring_

#### ADDITIONAL ELECTIVES

  * CEE 501: Applied Mathematics for Engineers – _O_ _ccasional_
  * CEE 502: Engineering Data Analysis – _O_ _ccasional_
  * CEE 530: Finite Elements Methods
  * CEE 564: Physical and Chemical Treatment Processes in Environmental
    Engineering – _Spring_
  * CEE 565: Environmental Analytical Chemistry _– alt. Spring_
  * CEE 574: Remote Sensing – _odd Fall semesters_
  * CEE 575/690: Air Pollution Engineering – _Fall_
  * CEE 581: Numerical Methods in Environmental Transport - _Spring_
  * CEE 627: Linear Systems Theory _– each Fall Semester_
  * CEE 643: Engineering and Environmental Geophysics – _Fall/Spring_
  * CEE 661L: Environmental Molecular Biotechnology – _Spring_
  * CEE 666: Aquatic Geochemistry – _Spring_
  * CEE 667: Chemical Transformations of Environmental Contaminants _– alt.
    Spring_
  * CEE 683: Groundwater and Vadose Zone Hydrology – alt. _Fall_
  * CEE 684: Hydrometeorology and Land-Atmosphere Interactions _– even Fall_
  * CEE 686: Ecohydrology – _occasional_
  * CEE 690: Introduction to Turbulence – _Fall_
  * CEE 690: Numerical Optimization _– odd Spring Semesters_
  * CEE 690: Modeling of Environ., Chem., and Biol. Processes _– Fall_
  * CEE 690. Risk and Resilience in Engineering – _odd Fall & odd Spring _
  * CEE 690: Data Science and Machine Learning in Applied Science and
    Engineering – _Fall_
  * CEE 690: Introduction to Deep Learning – _Fall_
  * CEE 690: Environmental Cheminformatics – _alt. Fall_
  * ENVIRON 501: Environmental Toxicology – _Fall_
  * ENVIRON 710: Applied Data Analysis in Environmental Sciences – _Fall
    (limited enrollment)_
  * CEE 761: Environmental Spatial Data Analysis - _Fall_
  * EOS 520: Introduction to Fluid Dynamics – _Fall_
  * BIOL 665: Bayesian Inference for Environmental Models – _Spring_
  * ME 631(226): Intermediate Fluid Mechanics - _Fall_
  * ME 632(227): Advanced Fluid Mechanics - _Spring_
  * PHARM 733: Experimental Design and Biostatistics for Basic Biomedical
    Scientists – _Fall & Spring (limited enrollment)_

* * *

## Geomechanics and Geophysics for energy & environment

The Geomechanics and Geophysics for Energy & the Environment (GGEE) study
track mirrors modern developments in geomechanics and geophysics, which
address applications to new technologies in contemporary energy, global health
issues related to the geo-environment and environmental protection industry:
conventional and unconventional fossil fuel exploration and exploitation,
including shale gas and oil, nuclear, industrial and municipal waste disposal,
CO2 sequestration, geothermal energy production, storage, procurement of clean
water in arid areas, to mention only a few.

The core area of interest encompasses multi-physics and multi-scale problems
for studying problems related to mechanics and a variety of physical and
chemical processes of geomaterials.

Duke CEE has world-renowned faculty in this area. You will receive premier
training in the core disciplines of applied mechanics of geo-materials and
non-invasive geophysical methods in characterizing geomaterials for
engineering and environmental purposes and involves laboratory and field
testing.

Courses

    

_Students must take a total of at least **five (5) courses** from the lists
below, with at least one (1) course in each of four principal areas._

#### Mathematics

  * Math 551. Applied Partial Differential Equations and Complex Variables
  * Math 557. Introduction to Partial Differential Equations
  * Math 561. Scientific Computing I
  * Math 577. Mathematical Modeling

#### Numerical Methods

  * CEE 530. Introduction to the Finite Element Method
  * CEE 630. Nonlinear Finite Element Method
  * CEE 635. Computational Methods for Evolving Discontinuities and Interfaces

#### Geomechanics and Geophysics

  * CEE 525. Wave Propagation in Elastic and Poroelastic Media
  * CEE 560. Environmental Transport Phenomena
  * CEE 621. Plasticity
  * CEE 642. Environmental Geomechanics
  * CEE 686. Ecohydrology

#### Engineering Sciences and Mechanics

  * CEE 520. Continuum Mechanics
  * CEE 541. Structural Dynamics
  * ME 531. Thermodynamics
  * ME 631. Intermediate Fluid Mechanics
  * ME 632. Advanced Fluid Mechanics

* * *

## HYDROLOGY AND FLUID DYNAMICS

Offers students tremendous flexibility in crafting a graduate program that
suits individual interests. Research focuses on some of the most modern open
problems in environmental fluid dynamics, hydrology and water resources.
Ongoing research topics include hydrometeorology (rainfall dynamics, land-
atmosphere interaction, remote sensing), eco-hydrology (impact of
hydroclimatic variability on ecosystems and feedbacks on the hydrologic cycle
and local climate), contaminant transport hydrology (surface-subsurface
interactions), water cycle dynamics and human health, and stochastic
hydrology.

In addition to courses offered within the Pratt School of Engineering,
students may take courses from Duke's professional schools and institutes
including the Nicholas School for the Environment and Earth Sciences, the
Nicholas Institute for Environmental Policy Solutions, and the Sanford
Institute of Public Policy.

Course and research opportunities include two tracks of study encompassing
water resource engineering, hydrology, environmental fluid dynamics, and
chemical and biological aspects of pollution of water, atmosphere, and soil,
among others.

Courses

    

_PhD Students must take a total of at least **six (6) courses** from the lists
below, with at least one (1) CEE course in each of five principal areas
(except for Applied Math/Statistics). _

#### Applied Math/Statistics

  * CEE 501: Applied Mathematics for Engineers
  * STA 601(L): Bayesian and Modern Statistics
  * STA 611: Introduction to Statistical Methods – _Fall_
  * MATH 551: Applied Differential Equations and Complex variables
  * MATH 561: Scientific Computing - _Fall_
  * MATH 577: Mathematical Modeling – _alt. Fall_
  * MATH 660: Introduction to Numerical PDES
  * ENVIRON 764: Applied Differential Equations in Environmental Science

#### Data Science

  * CEE 502: Engineering Data Analysis
  * CEE 690: Data Science and Machine Learning in Applied Science and
    Engineering – _Fall_
  * CEE 690: Uncertainty Quantification
  * CEE 690: Environmental Spatial Data Analysis – _Fall_
  * CEE 675: Introduction to the Physical Principles of Remote Sensing of the
    Environment – _odd Fall_

#### Environmental Fluid Dynamics

  * CEE 690: Environmental Fluid Mechanics and Sediment Transport - _Spring_
  * ME 631: Intermediate Fluid Mechanics - _Fall_
  * ME 632: Advanced Fluid Mechanics - _Spring_
  * CEE 690: Introduction to Turbulence – _even Fall_
  * CEE 690: Advanced Turbulence – _odd Fall_

#### Hydrology

  * CEE 684: Physical Hydrology and Hydrometeorology – _even Fall_
  * CEE 690: Hydrology - _Spring_
  * CEE 683: Groundwater Hydrology and Vadose Zone Hydrology
  * EOS 511: The Climate System

#### Contaminant Transport Hydrology

  * CEE 531: Finite Elements for Fluids
  * CEE560: Environmental Transport Phenomena - _Fall_
  * CEE 581: Numerical Methods in Env Transport – _Spring_
  * CEE 683: Groundwater and Vadose Zone Hydrology – _even Fall_

* * *

## Systems, Risk and Decision

Emphasizes a systems approach, the use of statistical decision theory, and the
leveraging of large data sets to assess the potential for extreme events and
their consequences.

The curriculum provides students with specialized training in risk assessment,
the analysis of hazard mitigation technologies, and the design of resilient
systems while deepening a student's expertise in one or more engineering
disciplines.

The track includes courses in mathematical modeling, optimization, risk
assessment, and decision theory, as well as courses that more explicitly
integrate methods and applications.

Download program brochure »

Courses

    

_Students must take a total of at least **five (5) courses** from the set
listed below, with at least one (1) course in each of the first three areas
and two (2) courses in any one area of application._

#### Mathematical Modeling and Optimization

  * CEE 627: Linear Systems Theory – _each Fall Semester_
  * CEE 629: System Identification
  * CEE 690: Numerical Optimization _–odd Spring Semesters_
  * CEE 690: Modeling of Environ., Chem., and Biol. Processes _–alt. Falls_
  * MATH 551: Applied Partial Differential Equations _–each Fall_
  * MATH 555. Ordinary Differential Equations _–each Fall_
  * MATH 561. Numerical Lin. Algebra, Opt. and Monte Carlo Simul. _–each Fall_

#### Uncertainty Quantification and Statistical Modeling

  * CEE 644. Inverse Problems in Geosciences and Engineering _–alt. years_
  * CEE 690. Risk and Resilience in Engineering – _odd Fall & odd Spring_
  * CEE 690. Uncertainty Quantification –alt. years
  * ECE 555. Probability for Electrical and Computer Engineers _–each Fall_
  * STA 502. Bayesian Inference & Decision _–Fall & Spring_
  * STA 561D. Probabilistic Machine Learning __–_ Fall & Spring_
  * BIOL 665: Bayesian Inference for Environmental Models __–_ each Spring_

#### Valuation, Assessment, and Decision Making

  * ECON 620. Game Theory with Applications __–_ Fall or Spring_
  * ENVIRON 520/521. Resource and Environmental Economics __–_ each Fall_
  * ENVIRON 590. Economic Input-Output Life Cycle Analysis __–_ each Spring_
  * PUBPOL 607. Cost-Benefit Analysis for Health and Environ. Policy __–_ each
    Spring_

#### Application Area: Water and Environment

  * CEE 560: Environmental Transport Phenomena __–_ each Fall_
  * CEE 561: Environmental Aquatic Chemistry __–_ each Fall_
  * CEE 683: Groundwater Hydrology and Contaminant Transport _–_ _even Falls_
  * CEE 686: Ecohydrology __–_ odd Falls_
  * CEE 684: Physical Hydrology and Hydrometeorology __–_ odd Falls_

#### Application Area: Environmental Engineering

  * CEE 562. Biological Processes in Environmental Engineering __–_ each
    Spring_
  * CEE 563: Fate and Behavior of Organic Contaminants – _each Fall_
  * CEE 564: Physical Chemical Processes in Environ. Engineering – _each
    Spring_
  * CEE 581: Pollutant Transport Systems – _occasional_
  * CEE 566: Environmental Microbiology – _each Fall_

#### Application Area: Materials and Structures

  * CEE 525. Wave Propagation in Elastic and Poroelastic Media _– odd Springs_
  * CEE 520. Continuum Mechanics _– even Falls_
  * CEE 530. Finite Element Analysis – _each Fall_
  * CEE 541. Structural Dynamics _– even Falls_

#### Application Area: Energy Systems

  * ENVIRON 711 Energy and the Environment _– each Fall_
  * ENERGY 630: Transportation and Energy _– each Fall_
  * ENERGY 631: Energy Technology and Impact on the Environment _– each
    Spring_
  * ENERGY 716: Modeling for Energy Systems _– each Fall_
  * ENERGY 729. The Water-Energy Nexus _– alt. Springs_

Sample Course Sequences

    

**Program Requirement Designations**

  * **MMO** = Mathematical Modelling and Optimization
  * **UQS** = Uncertainty Quantification and Statistical Modeling
  * **VAD** = Valuation, Assessment, and Decision Making
  * **AA** = Application Area
  * **ELE** = Elective

#### Water and Environment

Fall 1

Spring 1

Fall 2

Spring 2  
  
**CEE 690:** **Modeling of Environ., Chem., and Biol. Processes (MMO)**

**CEE 644. Inverse Problems in Geosciences & Engineer’g (UQS)**

**CEE 684: Physical Hydrology and Hydrometeorology (AA)**

_Elective_  
  
**ECON 530. Resource & Environmental Economics (VAD)**

_Elective (e.g., LAW 320: Water Resources Law)_

**CEE 683: Groundwater Hydrology & Contaminant Transport (AA)**

_Elective_  
  
_Elective (e.g., CEE 675: Remote Sensing of the Environment)_

_Elective (e.g., CEE 686: Ecohydrology)_

_Elective_

_Elective_  
  
#### Environmental Engineering

First Fall

First Spring

**Second Fall**

**Second Spring**  
  
**CEE 561: Environmental Aquatic Chemistry (AA)**

**CEE 690. Numerical Optimization (MMO)**

**CEE 560: Environmental Transport Phenomena (AA)**

_Elective_  
  
**CEE 690: Risk and Resilience in Engineering (UQS)**

**PUBPOL 607. Cost-Benefit Analysis for Health & Environ. Policy (VAD)**

_Elective (e.g., CEE 563 Fate and Behavior or Organic Contaminants)_

_Elective_  
  
_Elective_ (e.g., CEE _564: Physical Chemical Processes in Environ. Eng.)_

_Elective_ (e.g., _CEE 566: Environmental Microbiology)_

_Elective (e.g., CEE 571: Control of Hazardous and Toxic Waste)_

_Elective_  
  
#### Materials and Structures

First Fall

First Spring

Second Fall

Second Spring  
  
**CEE 530. Finite Element Analysis (AA)** or

**CEE 520. Continuum Mechanics (AA)**

**PUBPOL 607. Cost-Benefit Analysis for Health and Environ. Policy (VAD)**

**CEE 541. Structural Dynamics (AA)**

_Elective_  
  
**MATH 551: Applied Partial Differential Equations (MMO)**

Elective (e.g., _ME 742. Nonlinear Mechanical Vibration)_

**CEE 690. Risk and Resilience in Engineering (UQS)**

_Elective_  
  
_Elective (e.g., ME 527. Buckling of Engineering Structures)_

_Elective_

_Elective (e.g., Math 541. Applied Stochastic Processes)_

_Elective_  
  
#### Energy Systems

First Fall

First Spring

Second Fall

Second Spring  
  
**CEE 690. Risk and Resilience in Engineering (UQS)**

**CEE 690. Numerical Optimization (MMO)**

_Elective (e.g., ECON 527. Regulation and Deregulation in Public Utilities)_

_Elective_  
  
**ENERGY 716: Modeling for Energy Systems (AA)**

**ENVIRON 590. Economic Input-Output Life Cycle Analysis (VAD)**

_Elective_ (e.g., _ENVIRON 717: Markets for Electric Power)_

_Elective_  
  
_Elective (e.g., ENERGY 729. The Water-Energy Nexus)_

**ENERGY 631: Energy Technology and Impact on the Environment (AA)**

_Elective_

_Elective_  
  
Additional Relevant Courses at Duke

    

  * CEE 629: System Identification
  * CEE 571: Control of Hazardous and Toxic Waste
  * COMPSCI 571: Machine Learning
  * COMPSCI 579: Statistical Data Mining
  * DECISION 614. Forecasting
  * DECISION 611. Decision Models
  * ECON 527. Regulation and Deregulation in Public Utilities
  * ECON 753. Natural Resource Economics
  * ECE 581: Random Signals and Noise
  * ECE 585: Signal Detection and Extraction Theory
  * ENRGYENV 625. Energy, Markets & Innovation
  * ENVIRON 531: Economic Valuation of the Environment
  * ENVIRON 539. Human Health & Ecological Risk Assessment
  * ENVIRON 640: Climate Change Economic
  * ENVIRON 717: Markets for Electric Power
  * LAW 590: Risk Regulation
  * MATH 541: Applied Stochastic Processes
  * MATH 577: Mathematical Modeling
  * PUBPOL 504: Counterterrorism Law and Policy
  * PUBPOL 505S: National Security Decision Making
  * PUBPOL 580S: Water Cooperation and Conflict
  * PUBPOL 582: Global Environmental Health: Economics and Policy
  * PUBPOL 583S: Energy and U.S. National Security
  * PUBPOL 585: Climate Change Economics and Policy
  * STA 601: Bayesian and Modern Statistics
  * STA 611: Introduction to Modern Statistics
  * STA 623: Statistical Decision Theory

____

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## PhD Contacts

### Heileen Hsu-Kim

Professor and Director of Graduate Studies

__919-660-5109

__cee-dgs@duke.edu

### Rocky Rothrock

Program Coordinator

__919-660-5200

__robert.rothrock@duke.edu

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

