

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Industry Relations
  * Leadership
  * News
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
    * The Duke Difference
    * Career Services
    * Graduate Outcomes
    * What Tech Leaders Are Saying
  * Degree
  * Certificate
  * Courses
  * Faculty
  * Apply

__

# Noah Gift

Adjunct Associate Professor in the Pratt School of Engineering

Noah Gift lectures at MSDS, at Northwestern, Duke MIDS Graduate Data Science
Program, and the Graduate Data Science program at UC Berkeley and the UC Davis
Graduate School of Management MSBA program, and UNC Charlotte Data Science
Initiative. He is teaching and designing graduate machine learning, A.I., Data
Science courses, and consulting on Machine Learning and Cloud Architecture for
students and faculty. These responsibilities include leading a multi-cloud
certification initiative for students.

Noah is a Python Software Foundation Fellow. He currently holds the following
industry certifications for AWS: AWS Subject Matter Expert (SME) on Machine
Learning, AWS Certified Solutions Architect, and AWS Certified Machine
Learning Specialist, AWS Certified Big Data Specialist, AWS Academy Accredited
Instructor, AWS Faculty Ambassador. He also is certified on both the Google
and Azure platform: Google Certified Professional Cloud Architect, Certified
Microsoft MTA on Python. He has published over 100 technical publications
including multiple books on subjects ranging from Cloud Machine Learning to
DevOps. Publications appear in Forbes, IBM, Red Hat, Microsoft, O'Reilly,
Pearson, Udacity, Coursera, datascience.com, and DataCamp. Workshops and Talks
around the world for organizations including NASA, PayPal, PyCon, Strata,
O'Reilly Software Architecture Conference, and FooCamp. As an SME on Machine
Learning for AWS, he helped created the AWS Machine Learning certification.

He has worked in roles ranging from CTO, General Manager, Consulting CTO,
Consulting Chief Data Scientist, and Cloud Architect. This experience has been
with a wide variety of companies: ABC, Caltech, Sony Imageworks, Disney
Feature Animation, Weta Digital, AT&T, Turner Studios, and Linden Lab, and
industries: Television, Film, Games, SaaS, Sports, Telecommunications. He has
film credits in many major motion pictures for technical work, including
Avatar, Spider-Man 3, and Superman Returns.

He has been responsible for shipping many new products at multiple companies
that generated millions of dollars of revenue and had a global scale.
Currently, he is consulting startups and other companies, on Machine Learning,
Cloud Architecture, and CTO level consulting as the founder of Pragmatic A.I.
Labs.

His most recent books are:

**Practical MLOps**

_Getting your models into production is the fundamental challenge of machine
learning. MLOps offers a set of proven principles aimed at solving this
problem in a reliable and automated way._

Publisher O'Reilly  
Purchase Practical MLOps

**Cloud Computing for Data Analysis**

_A practical guide to Data Science, Machine Learning Engineering and Data
Engineering_

Publisher: Pragmatic AI LabsRelease Date: (Early 2021)

  * Purchase: Cloud Computing for Data - Book

Abstract

This book is designed to give you a comprehensive view of cloud computing
including Big Data and Machine Learning. A variety of learning resources will
be used including interactive labs on Cloud Platforms (Google, AWS, Azure)
using Python. This is a project-based book with extensive hands-on
assignments.

Read Chapters Online

  * Chapter00: Introduction
  * Chapter01: Getting Started
  * Chapter02: Cloud Foundations
  * Chapter03: Containers, Virtualization and Elasticity
  * Chapter04: Distributed Computing
  * Chapter05: Cloud Storage
  * Chapter06: Serverless ETL
  * Chapter07: Managed ML Systems
  * Chapter08: Data Science Case Studies
  * Chapter09: Essays
  * Chapter10: Career

Additional Resources  
Source Code

  * Cloud Computing with Python Source Code

Minimal PythonPublisher: Pragmatic AI LabsRelease Date: 2020

  * Purchase: Minimal Python - Book
  * All Book Bundle
  * Monthly Subscription

Abstract

Even books that have “learn” in the title introduce readers to hopelessly
complex topics like object-oriented programming or concurrency. It turns out
YAGNI (You Ain’t Gonna Need It). Why teach students topics they won’t use
either ever, or not for a few years?

Read Chapters Online

  * Chapter00: Introduction
  * Chapter01: Execute Commands in Python
  * Chapter02: Store Data
  * Chapter03: Create Functions
  * Chapter04: Test Functions
  * Chapter05: Command Line Tools
  * Chapter06: Build Web Apps Flask
  * Chapter07: Data Science Pandas
  * Chapter08: Data Science Libraries
  * Chapter09: Get a Job in Tech
  * Chapter10: Case Studies and War Stories

Additional ResourcesSource Code

  * Minimal Python Book Source Code

Python Command Line Tools: Design powerful apps with ClickPublisher: Pragmatic
AI LabsRelease Date: 2020

  * Purchase: Minimal Python - Book
  * Buy a copy of the book on Kindle
  * Buy a hard copy of the book on Amazon
  * All Book Bundle
  * Monthly Subscription

Testing in PythonPublisher: Pragmatic AI LabsRelease Date: 2020

  * Purchase: Testing in Python - Book
  * Buy a copy of the book on Kindle
  * All Book Bundle
  * Monthly Subscription
  * Buy a hard copy of the book on Amazon

Abstract

Getting started with testing can be hard, and this book aims make it all very
easy by using examples and straightforwardly explaining the process. Testing
is a core principle of robust software implementations and should be a prime
skill to master that can be applied to any project.

Read Chapters Online

  * Chapter01: Configuring The Environment
  * Chapter02: Testing Conventions

  * Chapter03: Introduction To Pytest

  * Chapter04: Test Classes

  * Chapter05: Reporting

  * Chapter06: Debugging Pytest and pdb

  * Chapter07: Pytest Fixtures

  * Chapter08: Monkeypatching

  * Chapter09: Testing Matrix Tox

  * Chapter10: Continuous Integration Delivery

  * Chapter11: Case Study War Stories

  * Chapter12: Essays

Additional Resources

Source Code

  * Testing in Python Book Source Code

Python For DevOps: Learn Ruthlessly Effective Automation  
Publisher: O’Reilly MediaRelease Date: December 31st, 2019  
Abstract

Much has changed in technology over the past decade. Data is hot, the cloud is
ubiquitous, and many organizations need some form of automation. Throughout
these transformations, Python has become one of the most popular languages in
the world. This practical resource shows you how to use Python for everyday
Linux systems administration tasks with today’s most useful DevOps tools,
including Docker, Kubernetes, and Terraform.

Learning how to interact and automate with Linux is essential for millions of
professionals. Python makes it much easier. With this book, you’ll learn how
to develop software and solve problems using containers, as well as how to
monitor, instrument, load-test, and operationalize your software. Looking for
effective ways to “get stuff done” in Python? This is your guide.

Python foundations, including a brief introduction to the language How to
automate text, write command-line tools, and automate the filesystem Linux
utilities, package management, build systems, monitoring and instrumentation,
and automated testing Cloud computing, infrastructure as code, Kubernetes, and
serverless Machine learning operations and data engineering from a DevOps
perspective Building, deploying, and operationalizing a machine learning
project

Pragmatic AI: An Introduction to Cloud-based Machine LearningPublisher:
O’Reilly MediaRelease Date: December 31st, 2019

Abstract

Pragmatic AI will help you solve real-world problems with contemporary machine
learning, artificial intelligence, and cloud computing tools. Noah Gift
demystifies all the concepts and tools you need to get results—even if you
don’t have a strong background in math or data science. Gift illuminates
powerful off-the-shelf cloud offerings from Amazon, Google, and Microsoft, and
demonstrates proven techniques using the Python data science ecosystem. His
workflows and examples help you streamline and simplify every step, from
deployment to production, and build exceptionally scalable solutions. As you
learn how machine language (ML) solutions work, you’ll gain a more intuitive
understanding of what you can achieve with them and how to maximize their
value. Building on these fundamentals, you’ll walk step-by-step through
building cloud-based AI/ML applications to address realistic issues in sports
marketing, project management, product pricing, real estate, and beyond.
Whether you’re a business professional, decision-maker, student, or
programmer, Gift’s expert guidance and wide-ranging case studies will prepare
you to solve data science problems in virtually any environment.

Python for Unix and Linux System AdministrationPublisher: O’Reilly
MediaRelease Date: June 2009

Python is an ideal language for solving problems, especially in Linux and Unix
networks. With this pragmatic book, administrators can review various tasks
that often occur in the management of these systems, and learn how Python can
provide a more efficient and less painful way to handle them.

Each chapter in Python for Unix and Linux System Administration presents a
particular administrative issue, such as concurrency or data backup, and
presents Python solutions through hands-on examples. Once you finish this
book, you’ll be able to develop your own set of command-line utilities with
Python to tackle a wide range of problems. Discover how this language can help
you:

With this book, you’ll learn how to package and deploy your Python
applications and libraries, and write code that runs equally well on multiple
Unix platforms. You’ll also learn about several Python-related technologies
that will make your life much easier.

His most recent video courses are:

His most recent online courses are:

You can follow Noah Gift on social media and on the web at:

  *     * Chapter02: Testing Conventions

    * Chapter03: Introduction To Pytest

    * Chapter04: Test Classes

    * Chapter05: Reporting

    * Chapter06: Debugging Pytest and pdb

    * Chapter07: Pytest Fixtures

    * Chapter08: Monkeypatching

    * Chapter09: Testing Matrix Tox

    * Chapter10: Continuous Integration Delivery

    * Chapter11: Case Study War Stories

    * Chapter12: Essays

    * Python Command Line Tools Book Source Code
    * Purchase: Testing in Python - Book
    * Buy a copy of the book on Kindle
    * All Book Bundle
    * Monthly Subscription
    * Buy a hard copy of the book on Amazon
    * Chapter02: Testing Conventions

    * Chapter03: Introduction To Pytest

    * Chapter04: Test Classes

    * Chapter05: Reporting

    * Chapter06: Debugging Pytest and pdb

    * Chapter07: Pytest Fixtures

    * Chapter08: Monkeypatching

    * Chapter09: Testing Matrix Tox

    * Chapter10: Continuous Integration Delivery

    * Chapter11: Case Study War Stories

    * Chapter12: Essays

    * Testing in Python Book Source Code
    * Buy a Physical Copy from Amazon
    * Buy a Kindle Copy from Amazon
    * Read Online
    * Download Source Code from Github
    * Python for DevOps Website
    * Chinese Version: 學習精準有效的自動化 
    * Buy a Physical Copy from Amazon
    * Buy a Kindle Copy from Amazon
    * Read Online
    * Buy EPUB version Informit
    * Buy Physical Book & eBook Bundle Informit
    * Download Source Code from Github
    * Buy Copy from Amazon
    * Read Online
    * Download Source Code from Github
    * Read text files and extract information
    * Run tasks concurrently using the threading and forking options
    * Get information from one process to another using network facilities
    * Create clickable GUIs to handle large and complex utilities
    * Monitor large clusters of machines by interacting with SNMP programmatically
    * Master the IPython Interactive Python shell to replace or augment Bash, Korn, or Z-Shell
    * Integrate Cloud Computing into your infrastructure, and learn to write a Google App Engine Application
    * Solve unique data backup challenges with customized scripts
    * Interact with MySQL, SQLite, Oracle, Postgres,and SQLAlchemy
    * Essential Machine Learning and A.I. with Python and Jupyter Notebook LiveLessons (Pearson, 2018)
    * AWS Certified Machine Learning-Specialty (ML-S) (Pearson, 2019)
    * Python for Data Science Complete Video Course Video Training (Pearson, 2019)
    * AWS Certified Big Data - Specialty Complete Video Course and Practice Test Video Training (Pearson, 2019)
    * Building A.I. Applications on Google Cloud Platform (Pearson, 2019)
    * Pragmatic AI and Machine Learning Core Principles (Pearson, 2019)
    * Data Engineering with Python and AWS Lambda (Pearson, 2019)
    * Introduction to Jenkins for DevOps (Pearson, 2020)
    * Microservices with this Udacity DevOps Nanodegree (Udacity, 2019)
    * Command Line Automation in Python (DataCamp, 2019)
    * AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner 2020-Real World & Pragmatic
    * YouTube Channel: Pragmatic AI Labs
    * www.noahgift.com
    * Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/noahgift/
    * Pragmatic AI Labs Website: www.paiml.com
    * Github
    * Get the latest content and updates from Pragmatic AI Labs: Subscribe to the mailing list!

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Executive in Residence in the Social Science Research Institute

## Contact Information

  * **Email Address:** noah.gift@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Github
    * Noah Gift Personal Website
    * YouTube Channel
    * [Book] Pragmatic AI: An Introduction to Cloud-Based Machine Learning
    * [Book] Python for DevOps: Learn Ruthlessly Effective Automation

## Education

  * M.B.A. University of California - Davis, 2013
  * M.S. California State University, Los Angeles, 2003

## Courses Taught

  * AIPI 561: Operationalizing AI
  * IDS 706: Data Engineering Systems
  * IDS 721: Data Analysis at Scale in Cloud

## Representative Publications

  * Gift, N; Behrman, K; Deza, A; Gheorghiu, G, _Python for DevOps: Learn
    Ruthlessly Effective Automation_ (2019) [abs].
  * Gift, N, _Pragmatic AI An Introduction to Cloud-Based Machine Learning_
    (2018) [abs].
  * Beazley, DM, _Python Essential Reference_ (2009) [abs].
  * Gift, N; Jones, J, _Python for Unix and Linux System Administration_
    (2008) [abs].

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Admissions

Have a question about the program or admissions? Contact the **Admissions &
Recruiting team** at pratt_masters@duke.edu.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
      *  __The Duke Difference
      *  __Career Services
      *  __Graduate Outcomes
      *  __What Tech Leaders Are Saying
    *  __Degree
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Courses
    *  __Faculty
    *  __Apply
  * __Quick Links
    * __Industry Relations
    *  __Leadership
    *  __News
    *  __Contact

    * 

