

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2022

# A First-Hand Dive into Duke’s AI for Product Innovation Master's Program

April 1, 2022 | By Shyamal H Anadkat

An account of the first year in as Duke 'AIPI' student

_Shyamal H Anadkat is a first-year graduate student in Duke'sArtificial
Intelligence for Product Innovation (AIPI) Master of Engineering program. He
has a dual Bachelor’s degree in computer engineering and computer science from
the University of Wisconsin-Madison and certifications in Business Analytics &
Entrepreneurship from the Harvard Business School Online (HBX). Find out how
he got to Duke, why he pursued Duke’s AIPI program and his experience in the
program so far._

I came to Duke with a background in software engineering and a few years of
work experience in the internet industry. I pursued my undergraduate degree in
computer engineering and computer science from Wisconsin. Before moving to
Durham, I worked as a senior software engineer based out of Chicago for
Grubhub—one of the leading independent same-day delivery platforms in the
United States.

During my time as a software engineer, I realized an increasing need in our
organization to innovate and experiment, especially with machine learning
(ML). Within our team, there were new verticals where machine learning could
potentially accelerate automation and make better use of our data and
resources—for example, predicting the customer turnover over a specific
timeframe or automating how we handle certain delivery flaws. However, I
experienced a gap where some engineers and managers, including myself, did not
have enough domain expertise to make the best out of opportunities where AI/ML
could help. I did not feel confident enough to experiment with machine
learning models on such a scale.

After chatting with a few other friends at various tech companies in Silicon
Valley, I realized that this AI (artificial intelligence) engineering
leadership gap is widespread. This was one of the motivating factors for me to
pursue further education to improve my applied machine learning skills and
eventually become a leader in the space.

## CHOOSING DUKE

In general, I was intrigued by the AI/ML landscape and the current trends.
There has been exponential progress in algorithmic advances, compute power and
open-source datasets. Moreover, machine learning evangelists are pushing
boundaries to democratize data science and its applications. AI is becoming
such a general technology that every single organization is investing in it,
and it is creating massive opportunities and a lot of rewarding careers. With
its broad spectrum of applications, AI/ML is at the forefront of solving some
of the more rigorous problems across various disciplines.

> I wanted to immerse myself in hands-on machine learning, from the ground up.

I wanted to immerse myself in hands-on machine learning from the ground up.
That is when I came across Duke’s brand-new Artificial Intelligence for
Product Innovation (AIPI) program. Duke launched AIPI in 2021 to train early-
career engineers and scientists in using AI to solve problems. The
interdisciplinary nature of this program that targets business, technical and
ethical aspects of creating AI solutions in the real world encouraged me to
pursue this program. And, practically speaking, Duke’s AIPI is one of the few
programs in the nation that offer something like this.

After having a brief conversation with Jon Reifschneider, Director of Master's
Studies for AIPI, I was convinced that this program would be a suitable
stepping stone for me toward building products that would enable me to be a
part of this AI commercialization era by implementing solutions with the right
amalgam of sustainability and scalability.

## SO FAR, SO GREAT

My experience in the AIPI program so far has been nothing short of amazing.
Our cohort is small and immersive, which allows for a personalized learning
environment. I have been able to pursue hands-on machine learning projects
that address real-world problems with an addressable impact. For example, our
fall project team for AIPI 510 (Sourcing Data for Analytics) worked with the
government of nearby Wake County, North Carolina, to develop a machine
learning model to help its health inspectors identify restaurants with
critical food safety violations.

> Duke’s novel curriculum, spread across industry seminars and the capstone
> project, truly prepares one to become a leader and expert

What I love the most about the program is that it is extensive on the
application side of machine learning. Coming from a traditional computer
science and electrical and computer engineering background, this is something
that I appreciate. With AI/ ML, the more you work with data and derive
meaningful insights from it, the better prepared you will be for a rewarding
career. AIPI’s novel curriculum, spread across industry seminars and the
capstone project, truly prepares one to become a leader and expert in this
space.

Reifschneider, who worked hard on planning the curriculum, said, “We took a
very different approach; we sat down with a blank sheet of paper about three
years ago when we started designing the degree.”

Overall, the program encompasses the core aspects of applying AI to solve
problems in a very disciplined and holistic manner. I cannot wait to see what
opportunities AIPI unlocks for my colleagues and me in the future.

Go Blue Devils!

**Shyamal H Anadkat is pursuing Duke's Artificial Intelligence for Product
Innovation **Master of Engineering degree,** with a graduate certificate in
Innovation & Entrepreneurship.**

Get a master's in AI from Duke

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2022

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

