

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2022

# A Conversation With Jerome P. Lynch

April 1, 2022 | By Johnny Lai

Duke's New Vinik Dean of Engineering discusses his background, joining the
Pratt School of Engineering and his plans for the future

_Jerome P. Lynch, PhD, F.EMI, joined the Duke community on January 1, 2022, as
the Vinik Dean of Engineering, after 19 years at the University of Michigan. I
sat down with him to discuss his background, joining Pratt and his plans for
the future._

What intrigues you about being dean of the engineering school? What are you
most looking forward to?

First, it is a tremendous honor to be asked to serve as the Vinik Dean of the
Pratt School of Engineering here at Duke. What really excites me about the
position is the broad base of excellence that we have in the school and across
the university at-large. At the same time, it is an ambitious community
passionate about using its talents and creativity to advance the common good.
I get energized by the possibilities of directing these ambitions to solve
some of society’s biggest and most complex problems.

One of the unique aspects of Duke is its size—it’s a moderately-sized
engineering school when compared to some of its peer programs across the
country. This allows us to be quick and nimble—we identify areas where there’s
a critical need for innovation and quickly mobilize by decisively putting
resources behind our eﬀorts. There are many examples ranging from our
signature design curriculum to our major investments in emerging research
spaces such as quantum computing, materials and genetics, just to name a few.

One of the other draws to Duke is how engineering exists within a university
that is ﬁrmly committed to a liberal arts education. As engineers, our
contribution to solutions may start in the technical arena, but the challenges
themselves, and even the technological solutions, raise a range of urgent
questions around the social implications of our work. The liberal arts base to
our education allows Duke engineers to ponder those questions and to ensure
innovations advance the common good in a responsible manner.

What ideas do you have in mind for the future of engineering education and
research?

In the education area, there are so many exciting initiatives underway here at
Duke. So many, in fact, that I wish I was a student again! What makes Duke
distinct is how our program has a laser focus on giving students a strong
sense of purpose in their studies. Whereas my generation picked our majors
based on the identity of our disciplines, students today think ﬁrst about the
types of problems they want to solve as professionals. They then craft their
academic journey including majors to ensure they are best positioned to
achieve their goals. In this manner, students are very purpose-driven.

At Pratt, we emphasize experiential learning where students work on real-world
problems sourced from actual clients. This aligns well with student interests
and gives them a chance to directly see how they can have impact. We will
build on this cutting-edge approach to engineering education by ensuring we
have a broader range of client types that diversify the types of design
projects that are sourced. To further expand our students’ explorations of
what their purposes may be, we should ensure design experiences are available
that focus the ﬁnancial, policy and ethical dimensions of their work.

With respect to research, I am excited to build oﬀ the deep expertise and
innovation already going on across campus. Pratt is simply a magical place
where so much is possible. One area I am personally passionate about is
climate change. The impact of climate change on our habitat, many of which we
are getting sneak previews of, is simply scary—they demand bold and daring
thought leadership to tackle. Pratt has the exciting opportunity to be at the
vanguard of multidisciplinary eﬀorts that will lead to the solutions society
needs to ensure resilience and equity in a rapidly changing world. By
partnering with campus partners such as the Nicholas School of the Environment
and others, there is just so much we can do to bring forth transformative
climate solutions.

You have led interdisciplinary programs in the past. Pratt is known for
interdisciplinary collaborations. What ideas do you have in mind for
collaboration?

Collaboration and interdisciplinary activity are essential parts of
engineering as a profession—if you will, it is in our DNA. To me, cross-
disciplinary collaborations are one of the things that make engineering an
incredibly fun and rewarding profession. If we consider the challenges that
lie ahead, they demand revolutionary approaches that might only be possible
when diﬀerent disciplines come together.

Interdisciplinarity is where Duke excels—the physical spaces of the campus are
well integrated and intimate, naturally facilitating interaction, engagement
and collaboration between disciplines. We will invest in these collaborative
activities widely. There are so many that Pratt ﬁnds itself in the center of
many already, ranging from those based with partners in medicine to those in
the sciences. In addition to collaborating across campus, there is a
tremendous opportunity for Pratt to further grow and strengthen its
collaborations with non-academic partners oﬀ-campus. With the Research
Triangle going through a rapid transformation, it is essential we engage the
growing number of companies active in the region. In some engineering areas,
to have an impact we need to validate our work at ever-larger scales that are
not feasible in our labs. But we can gain access to full-scale, real-world
testbeds by collaborating with external partners such as local industry.

You have a lot of leadership experience. How do you think those experiences
have inﬂuenced you?

I have been lucky to experience diﬀerent forms of leadership ranging from my
prior role at Michigan, which was department chair, to experiences in leading
startup companies. Each of these experiences has challenged me on many
diﬀerent levels leading to growth; they have challenged my knowledge, my
assumptions that frame my work, my instincts, my outlook. Leadership is very
much a contact sport, meaning it is as much about people as it is tactics.
That is where I have learned the most; how to listen, engage and drive
consensus to ensure the teams I lead move forward with collective purpose. An
important part of the learning process is failure. Not everything you do will
work, nor will it always lead to the outcome desired. The key is how you learn
from failure—humbling lessons have undoubtedly helped me grow into a more
eﬀective leader.

What are your biggest goals for Pratt, being the Vinik Dean of Engineering at
Duke?

First, I will take some time to introduce myself to the Pratt and greater Duke
community so that I can learn from all Pratt stakeholders what they see as
opportunities and challenges for engineering. The Pratt 2039 strategic vision
oﬀers early insight into the aspirations of the community. What energizes me
most when I read Pratt 2039 is the consistent framing of our plans in the
context of doing our work “in service to society.”

As an educator, this begins in the classroom. Pratt is a leader in engineering
education—our students have the best-in-class educational experience tooling
them with not only technical competencies but also a broader mindset based on
their exposure to the liberal arts. As I mentioned before, I would like to
build an even stronger sense of purpose and context for students as they
study. This includes giving students the opportunity for more hands-on, real-
world experiences throughout their time on campus.

On the research side, it’s to continue to invest in our excellence by
targeting strategic areas of innovation. We are already known internationally
as leaders in a number of diﬀerent areas, ranging from our top-ten biomedical
engineering program to areas like quantum computing. I would like to take the
concept proposed in the Pratt 2039 strategic vision termed “explore and
amplify” to venture into a number of emerging areas where we can have an
oversized impact. Based on early success, we then amplify our resource
investments to ensure we are at the edge of innovation. To accelerate impact,
partnerships will be essential. We will focus on extending the reach of our
work by building collaborations with local and global industry.

Finally, we have a strong and dynamic entrepreneurial ecosystem at Duke that
is well integrated with the regional entrepreneurial community. Pratt has been
a campus leader in this space with faculty and students passionate about
venture creation. Duke EngEn, along with its spaces and programs, are clear
illustrations of our commitment to entrepreneurship as a core characteristic
of the Pratt community. This is another area where we must continue to invest
to ensure we can accelerate moving our innovation from lab to practice. In
doing so, we can unlock the potential of our work and gain rich experiences
that inform our future research and development eﬀorts.

_Johnny Lai is a student in Duke'sFinTech Master of Engineering program. This
interview has been edited for length and clarity._

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2022

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

