

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2022

# Linda Franzoni: 2022 Alumni Distinguished Service Award

February 17, 2022

During nearly 25 years at Duke, Linda Franzoni has served in many capacities
for many organizations ranging from student groups to international boards

When it came time for the Franzoni twins, Linda and Lisa, to make their
choices for college, they were both of like and different minds. Both were
strong in math and science and wanted a challenging academic experience, but
they ended up making different decisions on where to go next.

Growing up in the south, Lisa chose to stay closer to home and attend Duke
University, while Linda decided to head northeast and go to Yale University.
It’s a lucky thing for Duke that Lisa chose the Blue Devils, or else the
institution likely would have missed out on Linda’s 25 years of outstanding
service to the school.

“I had a sort of sibling rivalry mentality going on, where the grass was
always greener on the other side,” said Franzoni, a professor of the practice
in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science
and associate dean of undergraduate education. “The campus was beautiful and
Lisa was always talking about fun projects she was working on. It seemed like
a less theoretical and more authentic experience in engineering than I was
having at Yale.”

After heading west to work at the NASA/Caltech Jet Propulsion Laboratory for a
few years immediately following her college graduation, Franzoni and her
husband decided to head back east to raise their growing family. Having grown
up in Greensboro, North Carolina riding bicycles in the streets and playing in
her neighborhood, Franzoni wanted the same for her children’s formative years.
The crowded beaches and busy streets of Pasadena, California just didn’t have
the same feel.

Thanks to that sibling rivalry mentioned earlier, Franzoni chose Duke for
graduate school and earned her master’s and doctoral degrees in ’88 and ’91,
respectively. Earl Dowell, who was the dean of Duke Engineering at the time,
was Franzoni’s thesis advisor, and her research was in the area of structural
acoustics.

After a short stint as a faculty member in mechanical and aeronautical
engineering at NC State, Linda returned to Duke and joined the faculty. But it
didn’t take long for her to start contributing to the school in many ways
outside of research.

Franzoni quickly discovered there were consequences to offering ideas. After
mentioning ways that the student chapter of the American Society for
Mechanical Engineers could improve, Franzoni was asked to be their advisor.
Not long after, she became the advisor of the Engineering Student Government
and Pi Tau Sigma, the International Honor Society for Mechanical Engineers.

“The energy that students bring to everything they do keeps you feeling
young,” Franzoni said. “There’s so much flowing creativity and enthusiasm, it
makes it enjoyable and rewarding to go to work each day. New students are
continuously cycling through the school and they never get older, so you don’t
notice that you are.”

On the school level, within a few years of her faculty appointment at Duke,
Franzoni was asked to serve as a member of the Engineering Faculty Committee,
where she later became the chair. In that capacity, she was invited to serve
on other Duke-wide committees. Franzoni was also elected to Duke’s Academic
Council and has served on the executive committee of that council. She
currently serves as chair of the Duke University athletics council, where she
sees some of her most important work coming in the next few years.

“With new NCAA and ACC legislation in the realm of name, image, and likeness
and educational benefits, it’s a quickly changing landscape when it comes to
athletics, finances and the collegiate experience,” Franzoni said. “It’s an
exciting time to get involved in this area, and I think it’s work that will
reenergize me in the next five years.”

Franzoni has also served in many capacities for national and international
professional societies outside of Duke. She is one of five delegates to the
International Union of Theoretical and Applied Mechanics, where she is working
to expand the group’s definition of “diversity” beyond different countries and
specialties within the field. She is also working to evolve the perception of
mechanical engineering from an older field focused on engines and machines to
a new and exciting field that encompasses energy materials, additive
manufacturing, and mechanics on the micro and nano scales.

She has also worked for the Acoustical Society of America, editing journals
and organizing regional conferences. But perhaps her most significant work has
come as a member of the board of ABET, the non-profit organization that
accredits engineering programs.

As a byproduct of serving on so many engineering and educational organizations
on a national and international level, Franzoni has been to many conferences
and talked to many colleagues over the years. And it’s those conversations,
she says, that tells her just how far Duke Engineering has come since she
started working here.

“In graduate school, I’d go to a conference with a Duke badge on and people
would be surprised to hear that Duke had an engineering school,” Franzoni
said. “But now when I go to conferences, I get asked if I know different
colleagues here at Duke that are well-known to others. Everywhere I go now, it
seems that Duke Engineering is on the map, and that’s the biggest change I’ve
seen over the years.”

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2022

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

