

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2022

# A Tale as Old as Twinnie’s

April 1, 2022 | By Neeraj Meghani

While the menu items or décor may change, Twinnie’s Cafe was, is and shall
forever remain an inseparable, salient feature of Duke Engineering

With all of the late-night study sessions and group meetings engineering
students regularly engage in, it’s diﬃcult to imagine an engineering school
without a signature cafe or coﬀee house. To describe it in a single word, it
would be incomplete. Thankfully, the folks at Duke Engineering do not have to
worry about this inadequacy, courtesy of Twinnie’s Cafe.

Although Twinnie’s is located at the heart of the Pratt School of Engineering
and serves as the principal supplier of caﬀeine to Duke’s engineers, the
vibrant hotspot also shares an intimate bond with other schools of the
183-year-old institution.

Jack Haddad, the general manager at Twinnie’s who also manages the new Bseisu
Coﬀee Family Bar to serve caﬀeine-dependent beings at the Wilkinson Building,
talks about how he has seen students come and go throughout much of the coﬀee-
house’s 17-year-long history at Pratt.

“It is rewarding to see students spend almost a decade at Duke, right from
their undergrad to their PhD,” Haddad said. “New buildings have come up
everywhere and the hospital has massively expanded. The Research Drive wasn’t
even called Research Drive when Twinnie’s started.”

He then quips with the statement that Twinnie’s might have had a major hand to
play in the development of COVID vaccines.

“I had an ex-student from Pratt come back to meet me here after they graduated
from the Medical School,” Haddad said. “They used to come here pretty often,
and they were likely a part of the team from Duke that worked on the vaccine.”

Now that we all have had the Earth (or the roads) under our feet shook by this
awe-inspiring fact, Haddad goes on to tell how the menu has changed over the
years. Twinnie’s started oﬀ as an Irish-themed coﬀee bar, serving specialty
items for much of its early years. While the signature Irish-green counter
still exists, the options have since changed. With made-to-order sandwiches
and freshly baked goods dominating the oﬀerings, the menu has since expanded
by leaps and bounds. This shift was driven by the cafe’s focus on healthier
and more ﬁlling choices.

“Breakfast items keep changing out every few years,” Haddad said. “The
breakfast bagel went out to make space for the new healthy rice bowls. We also
have new soups this year, and people love our chicken soup.”

Much like “Chicken Soup for the Teenage Soul,” Twinnie’s is often the go-to
place for the folks at Duke—for reﬂection, serenity and productivity. So it
shouldn’t come as a surprise that the cafe witnesses massive turn-out
throughout the week, primarily owing to its ambiance. Seating around the cafe
is worth its weight in gold. The quaint sunlit hall at CIEMAS is great for
studying or working, and Twinnie’s proximity acts as the metaphorical icing on
the cake.

“The furniture here has seen its fair share of days, and we would love to get
a remodel from Duke Dining Services,” Haddad said. “We were supposed to get a
remodel before the pandemic hit, and it would be nice to get a refreshed
setup.”

While dropping hints about a potential furniture redo, Haddad also casually
started explaining how Twinnie’s got its name.

“Oh here’s some trivia for you,” Haddad piped. “When we opened here, Kristina
Johnson was the dean at Pratt, and Twinnie’s is named after her mother.”

History presents itself in diﬀerent ways, and Twinnie’s Cafe is one among the
many mediums in this “Gothic Wonderland” that reminds us all of its presence.
A big board with Pratt’s history hangs on a wall outside Twinnie’s, reaﬃrming
everyone’s belief that they are now part of Duke University’s legacy in their
own small way. Haddad believes Twinnie’s will continue to exist as long as
Duke stands, and is only going to get bigger (and better) as the years pass.

“All I can say is, it feels great to be a part of Pratt,” Haddad said. “Yes,
we do keep people caﬀeinated and fed, and that’s our primary purpose. But in a
way, we help students and faculty achieve their potential. We occupy a small
part of their lives, and by this logic, we occupy a small yet important part
of Duke. That’s what keeps me going every day I come here.”

Twinnie’s is going to be around long after we have left these halls, serving
engineers for the years to come. The interiors and exteriors may be revamped
with time. Who knows, the cafe itself might be moved to a diﬀerent location at
Duke. But no matter what, Twinnie’s Cafe was, is and shall forever remain an
inseparable, salient feature of the Pratt School of Engineering and Duke
University.

**Neeraj Meghani is a student in the Master of Engineering Management
program.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2022

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

