Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# Welcome to the Neighborhood

October 8, 2021

The fourth floor of Duke Engineering's new Wilkinson Building houses the
Advanced Computing and Intelligent Systems research neighborhood. Learn more
about the engineers who now call this space home

The new 150,000-square-foot Wilkinson Building sits at the intersection of the
Schools of Engineering, Medicine and Arts & Sciences. The Wilkinson Building's
research "neighborhoods" bring together faculty with diverse specialties and
areas of expertise, facilitating collaboration and cooperation.

The fourth floor is home to the Advanced Computing and Intelligent Systems
neighborhood, where faculty with electrical and computer engineering, computer
science, and mechanical engineering affiliations come together to develop
solutions to challenges in AI and machine learning, robotics, cybersecurity
and beyond.

## Faculty Labs

Hover or tap on faculty photos to read about research in each lab.

### 411: Tingjun Chen

Tingjun Chen seeks to improve data rates employing emerging physical-layer
technologies and achieve the highest possible data rates for ultra-low-power
IoT devices. (ECE)

### 423: John Board

John Board is an expert in cybersecurity and serves as Duke University’s
associate chief information officer. His research interests extend to high
performance scientific computing and simulation, novel computer architectures,
cluster computing and parallel processing, and ubiquitous computing. (ECE/CS)

### 427: Neil Gong

Neil Gong works at the crossroads of security, privacy, and machine learning,
leveraging machine learning techniques to study security and privacy, and also
building secure and privacy-preserving machine learning algorithms. (ECE/CS)

### 427: Daniel Sorin

Daniel Sorin designs computer architectures and memory systems for multicore
processors, with the aim of improving reliability, lifetime, and vulnerability
to transient errors. (ECE/CS)

### 427: Kishor Trivedi

Kishor Trivedi is an internationally recognized expert in the domain of
reliability. Currently, he is conducting experimental research in software
reliability during operation, researching software fault tolerance through
environmental diversity. (ECE/CS)

### 429: Krishnendu Chakrabarty

Krishnendu Chakrabarty’s research is presently focused on design-for-test of
system-on-chip and 3D integrated circuits, microfluidic biochips, and wireless
sensor networks. (ECE/CS)

### 431: Yiran Chen

Yiran Chen leads the new NSF-funded Athena center, advancing next-generation
mobile networks in support of edge computing. Chen also co-directs the Center
for Computational Evolutionary Intelligence. (ECE/CS)

### 431: Jeffrey Krolik

Jeffrey Krolik develops algorithms that explicitly account for and exploit
multipath in order to significantly improve system performance. He is the
managing director of the NSF-funded Athena center. (ECE)

### 431: Hai Li

Hai Li’s research encompasses many aspects of AI, including machine learning
acceleration and trustworthiness, and extending to data privacy in healthcare
applications. Li co-directs the Center for Computational Evolutionary
Intelligence. (ECE/CS)

### 432: Vahid Tarokh

Vahid Tarokh invents new mathematical methodologies and demonstrates these in
projects focused on representation, modeling, inference and prediction from
data. (ECE/Mathematics)

### 435: Miroslav Pajic

Miroslav Pajic's research focuses on developing and securing cyber-physical
systems with varying levels of autonomy and human interaction. (ECE/CS)

### 437: Michael Zavlanos

Michael Zavlanos develops new, AI-enabled controls for autonomous systems that
operate in uncertain, unstructured and unpredictable environments.
(MEMS/ECE/CS)

### 443: Maria Gorlatova

Maria Gorlatova focuses on adding connectivity and intelligence to every
device big and small — the cross-disciplinary area known as the “Internet of
Things.” She has particular interest in fog and edge computing. (ECE/CS)

## Gallery

  * The Advanced Computing and Intelligent Systems neighborhood offers
    sweeping views of West Campus and Duke Chapel

  * The skylight on the fourth floor floods the Wilkinson Building with
    natural light

  * The view of Duke Chapel as seen from the Derrick Family Terrace is
    unparalleled

  * The graduate student lounges offer quiet spots to work, study, or just
    take in the Gothic architecture of West Campus

  * This pod-shaped conference room has come to be known as the "Blue Egg" by
    the Duke Engineering community

  * The interior of the Blue Egg

Internationally recognized muralist Brendan Monroe drew inspiration from the
history of information exchange when creating "Forming Clouds" for the
Advanced Computing and Intelligent Systems research neighborhood

Read additional stories from this issue

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

