Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# Duke's Entrepreneurial Playground

October 8, 2021 | Miranda Volborth

Duke electrical and computer engineering students have numerous opportunities
to explore whether entrepreneurship is right for them, and develop the skills
to take their efforts further

Computing, IT, energy, instrumentation, microelectronics, communications,
security, finance… the list of fields that a Duke ECE graduate can break into
is nearly inexhaustible. But no matter the industry, there’s one skill that is
tremendously helpful in preparing a new graduate for a job in industry:
knowing how to translate an amazing new idea into a real-world product.

It’s critical for students to develop a user-centered approach early on,
especially if they’re launching their own businesses, said ECE professor
Jeffrey Glass, Duke Engineering’s senior associate dean for education and
learning innovation, the Hogg Family endowed chair in Engineering Management
and Entrepreneurship, and the interim dean of Duke Engineering. Glass’s own
background is equal parts industry and academia—he was the vice president of
research and development for Kobe Steel USA before he became a professor—and
he knows that tech for tech’s sake isn’t likely to have a lot of impact.

“A typical technology-centered approach is, ‘Okay, I have prototyped a really
cool gadget that works exactly as I want it to. Isn't that fantastic?’” said
Glass. “But the response from any entrepreneur would be ‘Sure, but who will
want to buy it?’ An investor or someone in business would start by talking to
the customer to discover what their needs are, and then develop the
technology.”

This type of deep dive into the end user’s needs and motivations requires a
different set of skills than the ones typically cultured in engineering
students—but then, a Duke Engineering education isn’t typical. In their first
year, students from every discipline take EGR 101: Engineering Design and
Communication, a project-based course that asks teams of students to solve
challenges for real clients in the university and the community. Working with
their clients to design and iterate on deliverables ranging from lemur feeders
to pedestrian bridges to endonasal retractors, the students learn to ask for
and incorporate the feedback that will make their projects successful.

Students from the class of 2021 work to improve a simulation device for
intravenous injection training. The IV training arm is used by students at the
Duke University School of Nursing

Some engineering students are immediately hooked on the client-based
experience. “Coming into Duke, I had a vague interest in business,” said Alex
Xu ECE ‘22. “I was very interested in photography and had a photography print
shop in high school. But when I took EGR 101 and learned to engineer to solve
a specific problem that a client is facing and create value in that way, that
really got me interested in entrepreneurship as a whole.” Xu participated in
Duke in Silicon Valley the next year, and decided to pursue a Duke Innovation
& Entrepreneurship Certificate.

Franklin Boampong ECE ‘22, Samarth Lamba ECE ’22 and Alex Xu ECE '22

So did Franklin Boampong ECE ‘22. “I came to Duke knowing I wanted to build
something before I left,” said Boampong. He got the first opportunity to do
just that when he worked on a HackDuke team that included Xu and Lamba in
2020. The three friends developed an app that used computer vision to deliver
information about the environment—approaching cars, curbs—to people with
visual impairments. That experience not only scratched an entrepreneurial itch
for the students, but the illuminated an area where the team might make real
impact for real people: accessibility.

Photo by Pilar Timpane for Duke I&E

When the friends learned about an opportunity to participate in the 2021
Verizon and CGI U Social Innovation Challenge, which asks teams to solve
societal problems with tech-based solutions, they wrote a proposal for another
app. This one, called Peek AR, would deliver live captioning of classroom
material, through augmented reality, to students with hearing impairments.

“There are some apps that exist in the same sphere, but they use speech-to-
text transcribing, which shifts a student’s attention away from the instructor
and what’s happening in real time,” said Xu. “Augmented reality would include
students more fully.”

The Clinton Foundation and Verizon agreed that Peek AR showed promise. To the
team’s delight, they were awarded a grant to aid in further developing their
tech and invited to participate in a summer incubator, receiving mentorship in
technology and business development from experts at Verizon. They also drew on
the expertise of Duke ECE faculty member Martin Brooke, who has experience
with tech competitions, as well as Duke Director of Student Accessibility
Services Cort Schneider, who connected them with students who might also be
potential future customers. Those students gave the team valuable insights
about their own needs and the utility of Peek AR’s technology.

“The end goal is to produce a viable product,” explained Boampong. “At the end
of the challenge, Peek AR should be marketable enough to draw more funding.”

When the Peek AR team competes in the final round of the Social Innovation
Challenge this fall, it will be in pursuit of a large purse. And while the
prize money is definitely exciting, the team agreed, it’s not their sole
driver.

“Our main goal is to improve people’s lives, and we can use technology to do
that,” said Boampong.

> "You have to believe in your own ability to succeed, despite the odds."
>
> Jeffrey Glass

This mindset—of wanting to create things that work—is typical of an engineer,
Glass said. But he believes that the “entrepreneurial playground” offered by
Duke gives students opportunities to discover whether they have the other
qualities that will be necessary to launch their own companies later.

“As an entrepreneur, you have to be comfortable and excited to wear a lot of
hats, because you are going to be emptying the trash, signing the lease,
raising the money, and developing the technology,” said Glass. “And you have
to be risk-tolerant. You have to be comfortable with the idea that the odds
are against you, statistically—you’re probably going to fail. But also, you
really need to be an optimist. You have to believe in your own ability to
succeed, despite the odds.”

“Our next few months and years will be riddled with failures, but every
failure will give us an opportunity to learn and grow,” agreed Lamba. “It’ll
be a lot of hard work with many challenges that we can’t anticipate, but
that’s the fun of it. The goal is always to get to a viable product and then
we will finally be at the beginning of our journey.”

Read additional stories from this issue

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

