Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# POP Stars

October 8, 2021

Duke ECE's lauded Professors of the Practice—POPs—have a passion for teaching
and a mission to engage more students in the joy of engineering

Meet three of Duke ECE's Professors of the Practice—engineers whose research
focuses on education.

## Lisa G. Huettel: Engineering Engagement

Lisa G. Huettel is the Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School Professor of the Practice
of Electrical and Computer Engineering, and the winner of the ASEE ECE
Division Distinguished Educator Award in 2021, the ASEE Southeast Section
Outstanding Teaching Award in 2021, and the IEEE Undergraduate Teaching Award
in 2019.

Huettel coordinated the transformation of Duke’s foundational ECE courses,
employing team-based design challenges. The new format gave students the
opportunity to start developing a skill set extending beyond content
knowledge, and the change positively affected interest, engagement and
retention. Later, when Duke Engineering reimagined its entire first-year
experience, Huettel’s course was held up as a model, and her success
influenced how design, computing, and statistical thinking and decision-making
would be taught across the school.

### Teaching philosophy:

ECE is everywhere and ECE is connected to everything. We don’t live in silos,
and engineering is not isolated. We can’t therefore just be technically
competent. Engineers have to know how to work in teams with other experts, how
to ask questions, and how to approach and solve problems. And engineering
educators have to show the relevance of ECE and choose challenges that engage
students and show them the larger context.

### Favorite topic to teach:

Whatever it is I’m teaching right now! I’ve revamped ECE 110: Fundamentals of
Engineering, which is a required course, and ECE 381: Digital Signal
Processing, which is an upper-level elective, and I am very attached to both.
What excites me most with 110 is that students aren’t yet thinking in a
restricted way. It’s a lot of fun to discover alongside them and watch them
really dig in deep to solve lab-related projects. In the upper levels, it’s
about getting to know each individual and discovering what it is that each
wants to do and helping to facilitate that. Underwater acoustics, economics,
sound engineering, land mine detection—all that comes back to signal
processing.

Lisa Huettel advises a first-year student in the Duke Engineering Design Pod.

### When did you decided you wanted to focus on teaching?

When I was a little kid, my best friend and I loved school so much we were
going to start our own school. Back then, I wanted to teach kindergarten. When
you get to college you really start thinking about what you want to do, and I
knew I wanted to get my PhD— I wasn’t done with learning. When I got to Duke
for graduate school I TAed as much as I could. I loved it. It reconfirmed my
desire to teach. At that time, the thought around the scholarship of teaching
and learning was evolving, and I was fortunate that the opportunity opened up
to have a career at a university like Duke, where I could focus on teaching.
It just felt right. This job does not feel like work to me—being with the
students is such a rewarding thing.

## Shaundra Daily: Expanding Participation

Shaundra "Shani" Daily is a co-PI on two major new grants: INCLUDES is a five-
year, $10 million grant from NSF to increase computing entry, retention and
degree completion rates of students from historically marginalized groups, and
Athena seeks to develop next-generation mobile networks and make edge
computing accessible to more users.

### Teaching philosophy:

The tradition I come out of is constructionism, which is the idea that
students learn best when they not only have opportunities for hands-on
creation of personally meaningful ideas, but also opportunities to communicate
those ideas to the external world. Most of the things I design—whether a
curriculum, a program or a technology—actively engage students with
opportunities to create, and to present what they’ve created to an audience
who can push the work forward.

Shaundra Daily stands among a group of engineering students

### Tell us about your research in diversity in STEM.

For a number of years, I’ve worked to address the question 'How can diverse
groups work together to develop computing solutions for the world’s most
pressing challenges?' A lot of my work has been in developing either
technologies or programs that broaden participation. For example, I had an NSF
grant a few years ago supporting the development of a virtual environment that
we could use to teach programming concepts through dance. And I am the Faculty
Director of Duke Technology Scholars, a program that seeks to recruit and
retain underrepresented people in tech, by offering professional resources and
strong support networks.

### How does your expertise in this area inform your work on INCLUDES?

The INCLUDES project is led by Duke Computer Science Professor of the Practice
Dr. Nicki Washington, who serves as PI. INCLUDES grew from Dr. Washington’s
work combining social science and computing as well as the Cultural Competence
in Computing, or '3C' program, that we developed in the fall of 2020. There
were 144 participating educators from six countries in the program’s first
cohort. Participants read materials that we felt were important, like _Race
After Technology, Algorithms of Oppression_ , and _Weapons of Math
Destruction_. These texts explore problems that result from not considering
race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, class, religion, and ability and
disability when developing new technologies. Then we invited guest speakers
and had discussions about identity. The goal was for educators to develop
modules or courses with an intentional focus on the role of identity in their
practices, policies, and course content.

> If you're teaching a course about AI, are you also teaching your students
> about bias? How do you examine issues of data—where it comes from and how
> it’s used?

If you're teaching a course about AI for example, are you also teaching your
students about bias? How do you examine issues of data—where it comes from and
how it’s used? Similarly, how are your course policies potentially harmful to
students? Are you disadvantaging students from certain groups?"

### What's your role in Athena?

I’m leading the Educational Workforce Development thrust of Athena, thinking
about education all the way from kindergarten through the postdoctoral level,
and about how to diversify and broaden participation.

In the K-12 sphere, I'm working with Daniel Limbrick at North Carolina A&T
University, who runs a successful robotics program, to implement industry
tours and letting students see more applied engineering projects. Athena deals
with AI on the edge, so it's helpful to see use-inspired research, like in the
autonomous vehicles space—to answer the question, "Where does the research go
in the real world?"

In higher education, we want to make sure students have options for class
projects, capstones and master’s projects that focus the research thrusts and
continuously consider ethical questions related to their work.

## Rabih Younes: Interfacing with Industry

### Teaching philosophy:

I try to provide a class experience where students retain knowledge for the
long term while making connections to real-world applications and developing
life-long learning skills. My teaching is mostly based on research in
education (especially engineering education), neuroscience and psychology.
Using my theoretical knowledge about how brains work, I use techniques and
tools that help maximize the students' retention of what they are learning,
and I reenforce that knowledge with activities, projects and homework that are
at a challenging sweet spot which triggers their motivation and curiosity.

I also keep in mind that different students take the same course for different
reasons, so I always try to give them the opportunity to realize their goals,
however different these goals might be. Furthermore, I often have discussions
with them about the impacts of their work, especially ethical impacts, and
other big-picture philosophical discussions that relate to their future and
push them to be better critical thinkers.

### Your senior design class on wearables offers the opportunity for students
to collaborate with an industry partner. What do the students get from this
collaboration? What does the industry partner get?

Garmin was the first industry partner I collaborated with in my wearables
course two years ago. After seeing how well this went and how much students
benefited from this experience, I am planning to expand the number of industry
collaborators next semester. Through these industry experiences, students get
to interact with a real client, which is the best way for them to prepare for
their future jobs. Through the industry partnership, students also get to
develop a prototype or product that real people will end up using, which is
definitely motivating. As for the industry partner, they get new approaches to
product development, and the chance to build real connections with potential
future employees.

Mary Stuart Elder, now a full-time employee of Garmin, designed a sleek user
interface for the company in Younes's wearables class.

### When did you decide that you wanted to be an educator?

I first started tutoring my peers in school when I was about 14 years old.
After a while, I noticed that I was good at it and needed to make some money,
so I started working as a paid tutor and had many students. By the time I was
in grad school, I had taught K-12 students, college students, and I was an
instructor trainer at the Cisco Networking Academy. That experience made it
very clear to me that I want to be a professor, which pushed me to take
courses in education and engineering education along with the courses required
to complete my PhD in Computer Engineering.

### What are your favorite classes or projects to teach, and why?

My favorite class to teach is my 'Wearable and Ubiquitous Computing Systems
Design' course, which I currently teach every spring semester. It is a senior
design course where students work in interdisciplinary teams to develop
wearable computing systems that address real-world needs and add value for
users. They learn about wearable and ubiquitous computing, but also how to
work effectively in teams and how to manage a big project. I really like this
course because I get to interact with a small number of students while sharing
with them everything I know about wearable and ubiquitous computing--knowledge
I've acquired through years of research. Plus, the tasks are very hands-on,
which is definitely a lot of fun.

Read additional stories from this issue

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

