Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# New Startup Support Structures Yield Many Success Stories

October 8, 2021 | Ken Kingery

Three recent Duke ECE startup companies highlight the many ways Duke
Engineering is making entrepreneurship easier than ever before

As soon as the prototype was up and running, it was immediately obvious to Dan
Sorin and George Konidaris that the robotic motion planning technology he had
created with two of his students was commercially important. What had taken
state-of-the-art computer processors and software seconds to calculate could
now be achieved in under a millisecond. In just a couple of years, the small
research group had made an improvement of three-to-four orders of magnitude.

The potential applications were enormous. Factories could greatly improve the
performance of their robotic assembly line while simultaneously increasing
safety. Driverless cars could choose their next course of action in a fraction
of the time. Futuristic robots that move about through society like people
could be one step closer to reality. And Sorin and his team were the only ones
who knew how to do it.

Dan Sorin“The first presentation to the world of our technology was at the
2016 Robotics and Science Systems conference, which is the most important one
in the field,” said Sorin, a professor of electrical and computer engineering
(ECE) and computer science at Duke. “We made a big splash. It was a multi-
decade problem and we solved it.”

After working with Duke’s Office for Translation and Commercialization (OTC)
on all of the basic steps required to spin off a company—invention
disclosures, patent applications, licensing agreements, etc—Realtime Robotics
became a newly incorporated company that same year. But the path from
incorporation to commercial success was still murky to the first-time
entrepreneurs who had never before walked it.

Bill WalkerThey needed a path-walker. Bill Walker, to be precise.

In mid-2016, Walker was named the Duke Engineering Mattson Family Director of
Entrepreneurial Ventures, tasked with helping students, staff and faculty
navigate the treacherous path of a successful startup. Shortly after Realtime
Robotics incorporated, Walker was visiting department meetings and faculty
gatherings to introduce himself and explain what he had to offer.

“I pounced. I didn’t let him leave the room,” said Sorin, one of the founders
of Realtime Robotics together with George Konidaris, now the John E. Savage
Assistant Professor of Computer Science at Brown University. “Bill was a truly
valuable resource to us—just a treasure trove of knowledge and insight. But
his most valuable asset might have been his ability not to answer with
giggling when asked truly naive questions.”

“In the first stage of my career I was a professor, and then I transitioned to
become a full-time entrepreneur,” said Walker. “These experiences have taught
me how to ‘speak’ academic and business and bridge the difficult gap of
understanding between these two worlds. I have loved the past five years,
where I’ve helped Duke innovators create new ventures to make the world a
better place.”

Fast-forward five years and many averted giggle sessions, and Realtime
Robotics is a 60-person company centered in Boston, Massachusetts with smaller
teams in Germany, Japan and China.

### Having recently completed a successful $31.4 million round of Series A
funding, the company is already pulling in millions of dollars in revenue by
selling robotic motion planning processors to early customers in heavy
manufacturing, logistics and automaking.

In that timespan, Duke’s resources for entrepreneurial students, staff and
faculty have grown tremendously. Duke OTC, while continuing to provide all
intellectual property services including protection strategies, market and
technology assessment, direct technology marketing, licensing, and mentoring
and connection to potential investors through the Duke New Venture program,
has been expanded to include the Duke Angel Network and new translational
funds including the formerly named Duke Incubation Fund and the recently
announced Gilhuly Translation Fund. Duke Engineering Entrepreneurship
group—EngEn for short—integrates design experiences, entrepreneurial
education, startup resources and a leadership team of successful entrepreneurs
(including Bill Walker) to deliver technological solutions to societal needs
in health, defense, climate change and beyond.

With so much support and so many routes to creating a startup at Duke, it’s no
wonder that Duke ECE has become the home of multiple new startups.

Duke EngEn has made its home in the new Wilkinson Building, with a centrally
located Sondland/Durant Center for Entrepreneurship serving students and
faculty across campus.

## Taking Advantage of New Resources

Leslie CollinsWhile Realtime Robotics didn’t necessarily need seed funding
from Duke-affiliated sources to get their idea off the ground, many future
successful businesses do.

In 2017, Duke’s Office of Information Technology (OIT) approached Leslie
Collins, professor of ECE, and Jordan Malof, assistant research professor of
ECE, for help with their security cameras. One of the biggest time sinks
facing the group was having to manually inspect all of Duke’s security cameras
on a regular basis to make sure they weren’t being blocked by a plant or
smudged by pollen or an enterprising spider.

Drawing from a long history of using machine learning techniques to analyze
photos and videos, Collins and Malof worked to develop a software package that
could monitor the performance of security cameras autonomously. The technology
learns the correct view each security camera is supposed to provide, and then
alerts users whenever that view is compromised by issues such as blurring,
tilting, tampering or glares.

After successfully launching the software on Duke’s campus, the researchers
quickly discovered that the City of Durham and the University of
Pennsylvania—where some of their colleagues worked—were interested in using it
as well. They clearly had a potential company on their hands. They just needed
to launch it.

“One of the biggest resources we used was the Duke Incubation Fund,” said
Malof. “When you’re just starting out, most people generally don’t have
$20,000 of their own money to kick off a business venture. Without the
Incubation Fund, I’m not sure if we would have continued with the project.”

> "Without the Incubation Fund, I’m not sure if we would have continued with
> the project.”
>
> Jordan Malof

Jordan MalofBut continue they did. With seed money in hand, the team set to
work using many of Duke’s other entrepreneurial resources to get Security
Camera Maintenance Company, or “SCMC," off the ground. Once again, Duke OTC
was instrumental in filing patent applications and completing a licensing
agreement. They also had recently launched their Mentor-in-Residence program.

  
Mentors-in-Residence (MIRs) are entrepreneurs who have successfully raised
capital for, built, sold or invested in start-up companies. Working with Duke
OTC, these forward thinkers share their insights, experiences and numerous
connections with startup projects. Each MIR handles a portfolio of projects
related to their particular field of expertise and provides astute and
personalized guidance to help create great new ventures.

SCMC worked with MIR Kurt Schmidt, a member of the Duke Angel Network who has
served as a board member, chairman and advisor to technology innovators from
San Francisco to Sydney to Shanghai. He met with the team on a weekly basis,
helping them through issues that require more of a close engagement with the
company, such as working through the script when cold-calling potential
customers.  
  
And similarly to Realtime Robotics, Bill Walker was also a big help to the
fledgling company.  
  
“If you’ve never gone through the process before, you don’t know whether
you’re doing things right. There’s no guidebook,” said Malof. “Having access
to these seasoned veterans was priceless. They can often tell you when you’re
on the right track (or not!); or simply to confirm that yes, it is supposed to
be this hard.”

## Duke ECE Entrepreneurship at a Glance

### Patents held by Duke ECE faculty

From metamaterials to medical diagnostic devices, Duke electrical and computer
engineers operate at the frontiers of discovery

### SPACs valued at >$1 billion

Evolv Technology and IonQ merged into special-purpose acquisition companies,
or SPACs, worth $1.7b and $2b, respectively

### Startups launched from Duke ECE labs

With all the resources and networks available to the Duke ECE community, it's
small wonder that spinoffs continue to grow in number

## Multiple Routes to Success

While the $20,000 provided through the Duke Incubation Fund was exactly what
SMSC needed to get started, it didn’t quite fit the bill for Aaron Franklin’s
idea for an all-in-one testbed for biosensors and other electronic devices.
Thankfully, Duke had plenty of resources to help him figure that out.

As so many inventions do, the inspiration for Versametrics was born from
necessity. Franklin’s laboratory is focused on improving the performance and
functionality of nanomaterial-enabled electronic devices. And if you’re
working to improve the performance of such devices, you’re going to need to be
able to test them in a lot of different ways. The trouble is that obtaining,
housing and using all of that equipment is both cumbersome and expensive.

To help his own lab’s research, Franklin asked his students to work on a low-
cost platform that could fit in the palm of your hand but still feature most
of the measurement capabilities needed to characterize and test new
electronics. Once a device was in working order, he thought maybe it could
also help other labs working in similar fields.

“The platform has all of the nascent seed story elements found in many
startups,” said Franklin, the Addy Professor of Electrical and Computer
Engineering and Chemistry. “We saw a need, addressed the need ourselves, and
then realized that there’s probably others out there with similar needs, so
maybe we should see if there’s a market for this.”

Graduate student Jay Doherty holds the Dart 1.0

The Dart 1.0, boxed for shipment to a future customerThe group’s first stop
was—as everyone’s should be, says Franklin—Duke OTC. After filing an invention
disclosure and provisional patent application, the researchers were provided
with a “Technology Fellows Report.” Produced by one of the fellows in OTC’s
Tech Transfer Fellows program, the concise report offers preliminary research
on aspects such as the patent and market space.

“For someone who doesn’t understand how to evaluate a potential market, it’s a
really great starting point,” said Franklin. “And it’s not a 50-page treatise,
it’s a three-to-five page report that still contains all of the information
you need.”

Duke OTC also partnered the group with one of their in-house consultants—once
again, as it turns out, Kurt Schmidt—who worked with the group from a sort of
third-party perspective in the negotiations of licensing rights and fees
between Duke and their potential startup. In parallel, Franklin also sought
advice from one of Duke Engineering’s newest startup resources, EngEn.

Through EngEn, Franklin and his students were set up with—surprise,
surprise—Bill Walker for advice and guidance shepherding the technology
startup to the point where it becomes self-sustaining. It was here that
Franklin was asked what the goal of their startup was—to become a multibillion
Fortune 500 company or to create a little widget that will make a few thousand
people’s lives easier?

“In our case, the size of the company we anticipated building and our end
goals didn’t align well with what would have been required to go through the
Duke Incubation Fund,” said Franklin. Instead, Versametrics sought and
obtained through the National Institutes of Health’s (NIH) Small Business
Innovation Research (SBIR) program, also called “America’s Seed Fund.”

With so many resources available for potential entrepreneurs—both within Duke
Engineering and Duke University as a whole—it’s no wonder that more faculty
are flexing their startup muscles then ever before. In 2020 alone, Duke
Engineering was home to 132 new invention disclosures and 37 newly issued
patents. With statistics like those, the number of spin-off
companies—currently standing at 54—is set to grow by leaps and bounds.

Read additional stories from this issue

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

