Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Undergraduate Courses

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Undergraduate

**ME 221L(83L). Structure and Properties of Solids.** Introduction to
materials science and engineering, emphasizing the relationships between the
structure of a solid and its properties. Atomic and molecular origins of
electrical, mechanical, and chemical behavior are treated in some detail for
metals, alloys, polymers, ceramics, glasses, and composite materials.
Prerequisites: Chemistry 20(18), 21(19), or 101DL(31) and Engineering
201L(75L) or Biomedical Engineering 110L. Instructor: Curtarolo, Lazarides, or
Zauscher. One course.

## QUICK LINKS

  * DukeHub
  * Registrar's Schedule of Courses
  * Academic Calendar
  * Undergraduate Bulletin
  * Registrar's Office
  * Sakai

**ME 321L(131). Mechanical Engineering Analysis for Design.** Calculation of
3D stresses, strains, and deflections encountered in mechanical designs. Types
of problems include: curved beams, contact stresses, press/shrink fits, etc.
Reliability and uncertainty analysis, failure theories, fatigue, and fracture
mechanics. Computational methods of analysis, such as finite elements analysis
are covered. Prerequisites: EGR 20L, EGR 201L(75L), EGR 244L(123L), Mechanical
Engineering 221L(83L), and Math 353(108). Instructor: Franzoni, Howle,
Laursen. One course.

**ME 331L(101L). Thermodynamics.** The principal laws of thermodynamics for
open and closed systems and their application in engineering. Properties of
the pure substance, relationships among properties, mixtures and reactions.
Power and refrigeration cycle analysis. Prerequisite: Mathematics 212(103) and
Physics 151L(61L). Instructor: Bejan, Marszalek, or Tan. One course.

**ME 336L(126L). Fluid Mechanics.** An introductory course emphasizing the
application of the principles of conservation of mass, momentum, and energy in
a fluid system. Physical properties of fluids, dimensional analysis and
similitude, viscous effects and integral boundary layer theory, subsonic and
supersonic flows, normal shockwaves. Selected laboratory work. Prerequisites:
Engineering 244L(123L) and Mechanical Engineering 331L(101L). Co-requisite or
prerequisite: Mathematics 353(108). Instructor: Bliss, Knight, Shaughnessy, or
Zhong. One course.

**ME 344L(125L). Control of Dynamic Systems.** Model dynamic systems and
characterize time and frequency domain response with respect to particular
inputs. Characterize systems in terms of rise-time, settling-time and
bandwidth. Identify the difference between stable and unstable system. Apply
feedback control to modify the response of dynamic systems based upon
specified design objectives. Develop methods of designing compensators for
single-input, single-output, and multiple-input, multiple-output dynamic
systems based upon classical and modern control approaches. Introduce optimal
control theory, the linear quadratic regulator (LQR) problem, and the linear
quadratic Gaussian (LQG) problem. Gain a physical understanding of what can be
accomplished with feedback control in modifying the dynamics of a system.
Prerequisites: Engineering 224L(119L) and Math 216(107). Instructor: Ferrari,
Garg. One course.

**ME 391(187). Undergraduate Projects in Mechanical Engineering.** Individual
projects arranged in consultation with a faculty member. Open to students who
show special aptitude for research and design. Taught in the Fall. Consent of
director of undergraduate studies. Instructor: Staff. Variable credit.

**ME 392(188). Undergraduate Projects in Mechanical Engineering.** Individual
projects arranged in consultation with a faculty member. Open to students who
show special aptitude for research and design. Taught in the Spring. Consent
of director of undergraduate studies. Instructor: Staff. Variable credit.

**ME 394(172). Engineering Undergraduate Fellows Projects.** Intensive
research project in Mechanical Engineering by students selected as Engineering
Undergraduate Fellows. Course credit is contingent upon satisfactory
completion of ME 493(173) and ME 494(174) **.** Consent of instructor and
program director required. Instructor: Staff. One course.

**ME 415L(115L). Failure Analysis and Prevention.** A study and analysis of
the causes of failure in engineering materials and the diagnosis of those
causes. Elimination of failures through proper material selection, treatment,
and use. Case histories. Examination of fracture surfaces. Laboratory
investigations of different failure mechanisms. Prerequisites: Engineering
201L(75L) and Mechanical Engineering 336L(83L). Instructor: Cocks. One course.

**ME 416(170). Experimental Materials Science.** Exposure to experimental
methods used in the preparation and evaluation of alloys, intermetallic
compounds, crystals, and ceramics. Extensive work with x-ray diffraction and
scanning electron microscopy methods. Includes vacuum and arc melting
processes. Instructor: Cocks. One course.

**ME 421L(141L). Mechanical Design.** A study of practical aspects of
mechanical design including conceptualization, specifications, and selection
of mechanical elements. The design and application of mechanical components
such as gears, cams, bearings, springs, and shafts. Practice in application of
process through design projects. Prerequisite: Engineering 244L(123L) and
Mechanical Engineering 321L(131L). Instructor: Franzoni, Howle, or Knight. One
course.

**ME 424L(160L). Mechanical Systems Design.** An integrative design course
addressing both creative and practical aspects of the design of systems.
Development of the creative design process, including problem formulation and
needs analysis, feasibility, legal, economic and human factors, aesthetics,
safety, synthesis of alternatives, and design optimization. Application of
design methods through several projects including a term design project.
Prerequisites: Mechanical Engineering 344L(125L), 421L(141L), and 431L(150L).
Instructor: Kielb or Knight. One course.

**ME 425(175). Analytical and Computational Solid Mechanics.** One course.
C-L: see Civil Engineering 175; also C-L: Modeling Biological Systems

**ME 431L(150L). Heat and Mass Transfer.** A rigorous development of the laws
of mass and energy transport as applied to a continuum. Energy transfer by
conduction, convection, and radiation. Free and forced convection across
boundary layers. Application to heat exchangers. Selected laboratory work.
Prerequisites: Mechanical Engineering 331L(101L), Mechanical Engineering
336L(126L), and Mathematics 353(108) Instructor: Chen, Howle, or Knight. One
course.

**ME 438(166). Constructal theory and design.** Flow configuration in nature
and engineering emerges from the constructal law of increase of flow access in
time, when the flow system is endowed with freedom to morph. The course brings
together the basic principles of fluid mechanics, heat transfer and
thermodynamics, and teaches how to generate (to 'discover') shape and
structure for energy flow systems. The course teaches design as science, and
presents a paradigm that is applicable across the board, from engineering to
biology, geophysics and social dynamics. Instructor: Bejan and Lorente. One
course.

**ME 442(142). Introduction to Robotics and Automation.** One course. C-L: see
Electrical and Computer Engineering 383(142); also C-L: Information Science
and Information Studies

**ME 445(135). Introduction to Vibrations.** Mechanical vibrations are studied
primarily with emphasis on application of analytical and computational methods
to machine design and vibration control problems. A single degree-of-freedom
system is use to determine free vibration characteristics and response to
impulse, harmonic and periodic excitations. The study of two and three degree-
of-freedom systems includes the determination of the ecigenvalues and
ecigenvectors, and introduction to modal analysis. The finite element method
is used to conduct basic vibration analysis of systems with a large number of
degrees of freedom. The student learns how to balance rotating machines, and
how to design suspension systems, isolation systems, vibration sensors, and
tuned vibration absorbers. Prerequisite: ME 344L(125L). Instructor: Kielb. One
course.

**ME 461(121). Energy Engineering and the Environment.** Efficiencies of both
new and established energy sources and conversion methods. Evaluation of
alternative energy technologies by statistical information and by modeling
using principals of fluid mechanics, thermodynamics and heat transfer.
Electricity generation by fossil fuels, nuclear, solar, wind and hydro. Space
heating and cooling by traditional methods and by solar. Transportation energy
in automobiles, mass transit and freight. Environmental consequences of energy
choices on local, national and global scales, including toxic emissions,
greenhouse gases and resource depletion. Prerequisite: ME 331L(101L)
Thermodynamics. Instructors: Cocks and Knight. One course. C-L: Energy and the
Environment

**ME 462(183). Power Generation.** Basic concepts of thermodynamics, heat
transfer, and fluid flow applied to power generation processes. Nuclear
reaction theory and reactor technology; fossil fuel combustion theory and
modern boiler practice. Power plant ancillary equipment and processes. Design
considerations and analyses include economic and environmental factors.
Instructor: Staff. One course.

**ME 463(149L). Electric Vehicle Project.** One course. C-L: see Electrical
and Computer Engineering 363L(149L)

**ME 490(165). Special Topics in Mechanical Engineering.** Study arranged on a
special engineering topic in which the faculty has particular interest and
competence as a result of research and professional activities. Consent of
instructor and director of undergraduate studies required. Half or one course.
Instructor: Staff. Variable credit.

**ME 491(197). Special Projects in Mechanical Engineering.** Individual
projects arranged in consultation with a faculty member. Open only to seniors
enrolled in the graduation with distinction program or showing special
aptitude for research. Half course to two courses. To be taught in the Fall.
Prerequisites: B average and consent of the director of undergraduate studies.
Instructor: Staff. Variable credit.

**ME 492(198). Special Projects in Mechanical Engineering.** Individual
projects arranged in consultation with a faculty member. Open only to seniors
enrolled in the graduation with distinction program or showing special
aptitude for research. Half course to two courses. To be taught in the Spring.
Prerequisites: B average and consent of the director of undergraduate studies.
Instructor: Staff. Variable credit.

**ME 493(173). Engineering Undergraduate Fellows Projects.** Continuation
course for Engineering Undergraduate Fellows, contingent upon satisfactory
completion of ME 394(172). Consent required. Instructor: Staff. One course.

**ME** **494(** **174). Engineering Undergraduate Fellows Projects.** Final
continuation course for Engineering Undergraduate Fellows, contingent upon
satisfactory completion of ME 394(172) and 493(173). Consent required.
Instructor: Staff. One course.

## Undergraduate Contacts

### Donald Bliss

Associate Professor and Director of Undergraduate Studies

__919-660-5315

__donald.bliss@duke.edu

### Nico Hotz

Associate Professor of the Practice and Associate Director of Undergraduate
Studies

__919-660-5118

__nico.hotz@duke.edu

### Amy Spaulding

Director of Undergraduate Studies Assistant

__919-660-5310

__amy.spaulding@duke.edu

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

