Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Degree Programs

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Undergraduate

We offer a range of options for pursuing a bachelor of science in engineering
with dual or second majors and minors, supplementing that curriculum through
certificate programs, and leveraging your time at Duke to get a master's
degree in just five years.

Emphasis

Overview  
  
## Degrees  
  
### BSE

Bachelor of Science - Mechanical Engineering (ME)

The bachelor of science is offered with a major in mechanical engineering.
Students have considerable flexibility to pursue second majors and minors
within the Pratt School of Engineering or Duke's Trinity College of Arts and
Sciences. The Bachelor of Science in Engineering (B.S.E.) consists of 34 units
of which 19 are general engineering requirements and 15 are departmental
specific requirements.  
  
###

### BSE

Mechanical Engineering (ME)/Biomedical Engineering (BME) **Dual Bachelor**

###

The bachelor of science with a double-major in mechanical engineering and
biomedical engineering. This curriculum prepares students for careers related
to medical devices, public health, biopharma and biomanufacturing industrial
sectors by emphasizing the integration of engineering, biology and
environmental sciences.  
  
### 4+1 BSE/MS

4+1 Bachelor of Science/Master's Degree

Completing both a Bachelor of Science in Engineering (BSE) and a master's
degree in five years is a great opportunity to advance your training.
Increasingly, a master's degree is considered the starting point for careers
in civil and environmental engineering. The 4+1 program is for students who
have enough credits to begin taking graduate courses towards a master's degree
during their senior year. There are three master's programs to choose from:
master of engineering, master of science or master of engineering management.  
  
## Certificates  
  
### Aerospace Engineering

Aerospace engineering is the discipline concerned with the conceptualization,
design, analysis and performance of aerospace systems for commercial,
military, and recreational applications. The Aerospace Engineering Certificate
Program at Duke offers a rigorous and in depth exposure to scientific and
engineering fundamentals in the broad set of core disciplines required in the
aerospace field. The aerospace engineering certificate requires completion of
completion of six (6) courses, including both required courses, two aerospace
electives and two supporting electives.  
  
### Energy and the Environment

The Certificate in Energy and the Environment is designed to provide Duke
undergraduates with an understanding of the breadth of issues that confront
our society in its need for clean, affordable and reliable energy.  The
curriculum is highly interdisciplinary. Students take core courses in energy
and environmental science, and electives from markets and policy,
environmental science and energy technology. A culminating capstone project is
required.  
  
### Materials Science & Engineering

The Certificate in Materials Science & Engineering enables Duke undergraduates
to learn the scientific and engineering principles related to the fundamental
structures, properties and technological applications of materials.  The
curriculum is highly interdisciplinary. Students take core courses in the
structure and property of solids and in either modern materials or statistical
thermodynamics of materials, plus electives chosen from chemistry, physics,
mechanical, electrical, biomedical and civil engineering. One course in
history, public policy or economics is also required.  
  
## Undergraduate Contacts

### Donald Bliss

Associate Professor and Director of Undergraduate Studies

__919-660-5315

__donald.bliss@duke.edu

### Nico Hotz

Associate Professor of the Practice and Associate Director of Undergraduate
Studies

__919-660-5118

__nico.hotz@duke.edu

### Amy Spaulding

Director of Undergraduate Studies Assistant

__919-660-5310

__amy.spaulding@duke.edu

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

