

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Undergraduate » Bachelor of Science in Engineering (BSE) » 4+1:
BSE+Master's Degree

# Master of Science and 4+1

Duke undergrads can earn a bachelor's degree and a Master of Science degree in
just five years through Duke's progressive 4+1 program. Students who are
admitted as undergraduates get a head start in this accelerated program by
taking graduate level courses during their senior year.

## Preparation

Students should be in a position where bachelor’s degree requirements can be
completed by taking fewer than eight (8) courses [typically four (4) to six
(6)] in the senior year. Students meeting this condition may take graduate
courses that map to the MS curriculum of their choice. The courses are then
transferred to their graduate record upon enrollment in the MS program after
the BSE is completed, which allows them to complete the MS in only one
additional year at Duke.

The Graduate School publishes a list of master's application deadlines by
department, but generally, the deadline for 4+1 entry is October 1.

Completing a master's degree in in the 4+1 leaves little room for error. It is
the student's responsibility to ensure that courses taken during the second
semester of the senior year both:

  1. Complete the requirements for the BSE degree, and
  2. Will be credited toward the requirements for the MS degree

Also note: None of the courses can "double count" for both the BSE and MS
degrees.

Each department MS program has specific requirements and lists of permissible
and non-permissible courses.

Please meet with the Director of Master's Studies in your MS program to look
over your academic plan before you register for your senior year of classes.

### Senior Year

A full course load is customarily taken, with the schedule designed so that
those courses not needed for completion of the bachelor’s degree will be
applicable to an approved master's course of study (as determined by each
Pratt Department). Under ordinary circumstances, the cost to the student for
this semester is the usual full-time undergraduate tuition (under whatever
financial aid arrangement Duke has offered).

### The Next Year

After the final undergraduate, full-time semester the student is granted
his/her BSE. After the final undergraduate, full-time semester the student is
granted his/her BSE. Beginning in the subsequent semester (usually either
Summer or Fall following the senior year) the student becomes a master's
student in the usual sense. During this time, each department's financial aid
arrangements for students are consistent with procedures for other master's
students until the student finishes program requirements.

Nominally, students taking a minimum of two (2) courses that are transferred
to the graduate program within the Duke Graduate School and the Pratt School
of Engineering can complete the master's program with two more semesters of
course work, depending on individual departmental requirements.

Students may allocate up to four departmental graduate courses* taken in the
senior year toward MS degree requirements using the Pratt Credit Transfer
form. Transferred courses must fulfill MS degree requirements in the major of
interest. Note: Only the credits transfer, the grade remains on your
undergraduate transcript and is part of your undergraduate GPA.  
Student must earn at least a B in each graduate level course for it to count
toward your MS degree.

Graduate courses used for your MS degree cannot be used for your undergraduate
degree.

*The transfer of credit requires approval of the Director of Master’s Studies
(DMS) for the major of interest

* * *

## Coursework-Only Option Most Suitable

The 4+1 MS program is more suited to a coursework-only ("non-thesis") master’s
degree.

Although both coursework-only and thesis options are offered by different Duke
Engineering departments, thesis options require "satisfactory completion of
the thesis," which typically takes more time than coursework-only options and
may not be possible to complete within the single additional year.

Students who are interested in a thesis option may find it possible to
complete the program within a single additional year if they continue research
from their undergraduate degree.

* * *

## Contacts

For more information, contact the Director of Master's Studies (DMS) in your
department of interest or the admissions office.

Find your DMS

* * *

## Frequently Asked Questions

### How do students apply for the Pratt BSE/MS Degree, 4+1 Program?

Students apply to the program for their specific department through the
Graduate School in the fall of their senior year before the standard graduate
school, typically October 1. They are given early graduate student admission
while still an undergraduate

###

### Is acceptance into the 4+1 program automatic?

Each department, in collaboration with the Graduate School, controls admission
to their masters programs. It is not automatic, but there are no specific
requirements other than graduate program admission standards such as grades,
GREs, references, etc. and room in your schedule to take courses that are not
required for your undergraduate degree.

See admission statistics for each department at the links below:

  * Biomedical Engineering
  * Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

### Do I need to pay graduate and undergraduate tuition during the semester I
am enrolled as an undergraduate student and taking graduate courses?

No. While enrolled as an undergradaute students, you will only be charged
undergraduate tuition & fees (from the Pratt School) and you should be charged
nothing from the graduate school.

### What full-time courses do I take in this program?

In your final undergraduate year, you take the remainder of your required
undergraduate courses (usually 4 or 6) and the other classes you take in that
semester then count toward your Masters degree. The following year (or years)
are like any other Masters program.

### Can I keep my undergraduate housing during the 4+1 Program?

You can maintain your undergraduate housing and other undergraduate benefits
while you are an undergraduate. During the 5th year when you become a graduate
student, you are no longer eligible for undergraduate housing or other
undergraduate privileges on campus.

### Can I take courses in the summer between my senior and 5th year for the
master's degree?

Yes, but options are very limited due to the limited number of graduate
courses that are taught in the summer. Courses must fulfill departmental
Master Degree requirements.

Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate experience »

## Undergraduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 20, 2023 | Bass Connections

### Taking the Bull City by the Horns

February 22, 2023 | The Chronicle

### Sydney Hunt of Duke ECE Among Duke Young Trustee Finalists

View all undergrad news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

