Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# Alyssa Benza, ECE/BME'02

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About
  3. Alumni profiles

###

Managing Director, Goldman Sachs  
New York, NY  
Member, Pratt Board of Visitors

A 2002 Duke graduate who double-majored in biomedical and electrical and
engineering, Alyssa Benza is now a managing director at Goldman Sachs—and
stays tied to her alma mater by serving on Pratt’s Board of Visitors.

## What do you do at Goldman Sachs?

I oversee a group that works with clients who own hedge funds. We help them
with anything they might need regarding interest rates and foreign exchange
products, whether it be providing market information, executing trades or
providing access to our research. We deliver our firm’s services to clients
who do not have expertise in interest rates or foreign exchange and help them
either hedge their portfolio or create alpha—meaning uncorrelated profits—to
their core strategies and investments.

## And how does an engineering degree from Duke translate to your profession?

Actually, nothing I was taught in a classroom or the laboratory is directly
transferrable to my current career. But getting good grades while double
majoring in two engineering programs as difficult and prestigious as Duke’s
got my foot in the door. I could have taken economics or finance classes at
other schools, but I’m not sure I would have felt much more prepared. Trading
is not something you learn in school.

## So if not with the subject matter, how did your time at Duke help you
prepare for a career on Wall Street?

Walking into the door with an engineering degree from Duke made others give me
the benefit of the doubt that I was smart and could solve problems. It helped
me build credibility instantly with anyone who looked at my resume. I think I
could have gotten where I am with a liberal arts degree, for example, but it
would have taken me a lot longer to prove myself. And then there’s the
network. There are a surprisingly large number of Duke engineers on Wall
Street who are close-knit and who have respect for and watch out for one
another.

> "Walking into the door with an engineering degree from Duke made others give
> me the benefit of the doubt that I was smart and could solve problems."

## How did you get to Goldman Sachs from Duke's engineering school?

I knew after my junior year that I didn’t want to do research or work in a
laboratory. Your typical engineering career just wasn’t the right path for me.
Another Duke alum and a friend of mine at Goldman Sachs at the time convinced
me to interview for an internship there that summer. Somehow I got the job,
and I’ve been here ever since.

It might not seem like it, but there are actually a lot of similarities
between the people here and my friends at Duke, and that really resonated with
me. There are a lot of intelligent people with a ton to offer in many
different areas of expertise. I took this opportunity because it had an
extremely steep learning curve and I knew that I wouldn’t be bored. Plus, even
if I didn’t love the first job, there were a lot of other opportunities within
the company.

## How can students today help put themselves in position to succeed after
graduation?

If students are lucky enough to know what they want, they can work hard the
first few years and it will pay off. There’s no doubt about that. I had a
phenomenal senior year partly because I already had a job lined up from
busting my tail for the first three years.

But it’s not all about work. The social aspect of Duke’s campus is just as
important, in my opinion. You can be as social or as studious as you want and
switch gears from one day to the next. As a 34-year-old on Wall Street, I
still find a lot of people I met more than 10 years ago who still help me in a
number of ways.

## Why should students consider an ECE degree today?

There are a lot of great teachers for starters, but most of all it gives
optionality, especially in today’s world. With the tech world and social media
exploding, a lot of places are desperate for techies and coders. There’s just
so much demand. And although it’s very difficult and there’s no way you can
get through it without a lot of hard work, employers know that and the degree
will get you a long way in a lot of industries.

Meet Other Alumni

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

