Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# Celine Jimenez Crowson

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About
  3. Alumni profiles

ECE, Class of 1987  
Partner at multinational law firm Hogan Lovells, LLP  
Washington, D.C.

When Celine Jimenez Crowson studied engineering at Duke, she expected to
pursue a career in a technology-related discipline. It seemed like the logical
choice: Her father was an engineer and growing up she was always good at math.
In fact, Crowson—now a partner in the Washington, D.C., office of
multinational law firm Hogan Lovells, LLP—originally considered a career in
the space program.

It was the heyday of the U.S. space shuttle program in the early 1980s, and
Crowson was in the thick of it. As a high school student, she worked for
Bendix as an intern at the Goddard Space Center near her Maryland home,
helping track the shuttle in flight. She was given the task of compiling
tracking information and feeding computer punch cards into the enormous banks
of computers that filled rooms at Goddard’s Maryland facility.

“It was my first exposure to real-world technology, and it was very exciting
to be a part of it,” she says.

As a Duke student, Crowson majored in electrical engineering because she
thought it was a versatile engineering discipline, and she gravitated toward
the emerging computer industry. It was during her time at Pratt that she first
thought about the possibility of becoming an intellectual property (IP)
attorney.

“One of my professors, Professor George, had been an expert witness in a
number of patent cases,” she says. “I talked to him about it and he had said
he thought patent law would be an interesting career.”

At the time, Crowson says, patent law was not thought of as a particularly
exciting career choice. Most patent lawyers in those days worked in the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office, in large corporations or at small patent law
boutiques. Patent law was often viewed as a technical profession, rather than
an interesting legal profession.

“Now everyone wants to get into IP, but back then it was a very uncommon thing
to do,” she says.

As a law student at Georgetown University in the late 1980s, Crowson was one
of only a handful of students with a background in engineering and perhaps one
of only a couple of those students in her class year to express an interest in
patent law. Because of its niche status at the time, IP was handled mainly in
what’s known as a “boutique” practice, not at large law firms. When it came
time to find a summer internship, Crowson was pretty much left to her own
ingenuity.  
She applied for jobs as a law clerk after her first year of law school and was
hired by Rothwell Figg, a boutique firm in Washington, D.C. She quickly became
immersed in her work and was able to get substantive experience while
finishing her final two years of school.

“I participated in my first trial in October 1990, before I’d even gotten my
bar results,” she says. “The judge allowed me to work with a partner at my
firm and we tried the case together. It really allowed me to get ahead of the
game.”

## Details Matter

After hitting the ground running, Crowson quickly amassed a large portfolio of
clients and was able to participate in some landmark cases that set legal
precedents.

One such issue was that of personal jurisdiction in patent cases, which deals
with the location where a person or corporation can be sued, in other words,
where a patent litigation can be brought.

“I was involved with the landmark decision in a personal jurisdiction patent
case,” she says. Crowson’s law firm represented a fan company that wanted to
sue a competitor over a patent on ceiling fans. They wanted to sue in the
Commonwealth of Virginia to obtain a speedy trial, although the infringing
company was located outside of Virginia. Because an investigator was able to
purchase the accused fan from a store in Virginia, they were able to sue in
that state. “It turned out the appeals court wanted to say something on this
issue and perhaps used this case to do it.”

Crowson has also been involved in leading patent cases concerning single-use
licenses and exhaustion of patent rights. She often argues for the
patentability of software and certain computer-implemented business methods.
This area of law is still very active, says Crowson, and the application of
the general legal standard for what is patentable when it comes to business
processes is moving all the time as the courts take up additional examples in
patent litigation. In addition to her work in the electronics and computer
industries (she represents a number of the major computer and hand set
manufacturers in patent litigation matters), she is also active in the areas
of energy and green technology, the life sciences, and agriculture.

Crowson says her training as an engineer has always served her well in her
legal work. She has been since the year 2000 a partner at Hogan & Hartson (now
Hogan Lovells), and leads the core patent group in the firm’s D.C. offices.

“When you are working in technology, details matter,” she says. “Even though
we work with specialists as consultants, you still have to learn and
understand the technology you are dealing with in every case.”

Crowson says one of the most satisfying aspects of her work is counseling
clients on the implications of new laws and court decisions on their
businesses. For example, she has written articles explaining the implications
of various Supreme Court rulings related to patent matters, where the Court
continues to be active.

She has also been helping clients understand the implications of the patent
reform act, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, which was signed into law in
September 2011. The law was a long time in coming and effects many significant
changes to U.S. patent law and practice, including moving to a first-to-file
system, changes in what constitutes prior art, and new procedures for third
parties to challenge patents before the USPTO or submit prior art before a
patent issues. More recently, she has been active advising clients on new
proposed reforms, legislation and regulatory investigations aimed at curbing
the activity of patent trolls (against whom Crowson defends clients).

“Clients are interested in patent attorneys who are well-rounded and have an
understanding of myriad issues related to technology, such as media,” she
says.  
In fact, in 2003 Crowson she found herself representing the intellectual
property interests of the Belgian family whose father created the Smurf
cartoon characters as the family negotiated a movie deal with Paramount
Pictures and later, Sony Pictures.

The project, she says, was a great introduction to the movie-making business
and the intellectual property issues that arise in negotiating with a big
movie studio.

> "Engineering school teaches you to think ‘outside the box,’ to be creative,
> and to think of new ways to get things done. The varied exposure, whether it
> be on the materials side, on the electronic side, on the computer
> programming side – that exposure to technology has benefitted me throughout
> my career.”

Crowson is particularly appreciative of the flexibility in thinking and
problem solving skills that she gained during her training as an engineer.  
“The problem-solving skills that I learned in engineering school have served
me very well,” she says. “Also, engineering school teaches you to think
‘outside the box,’ to be creative, and to think of new ways to get things
done. The varied exposure, whether it be on the materials side, on the
electronic side, on the computer programming side – that exposure to
technology has benefitted me throughout my career.”

_Originally published Summer 2013._

_Meet More Alumni_

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

