Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# Chris Dries, PhD, ECE'94

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About
  3. Alumni profiles

President and CEO, United Silicon Carbide Inc.  
Princeton, NJ

Chris Dries is a serial entrepreneur who—after joining an indium phosphide
startup business—sold it to begin anew with silicon carbide, an emerging
material used for high voltage power conversion. He’s currently president and
CEO of United Silicon Carbide Inc. and a member of the Pratt School of
Engineering Board of Visitors.

## Why did you choose electrical engineering as your field of study?

My father worked at the Naval Research Laboratory in Washington, D.C., so I
grew up around oscilloscopes, infrared cameras and other hardware. Thanks to
that early exposure, there was no doubt I was going to major either in physics
or engineering of some sort. Since physics and electrical engineering are so
intimately related, it wasn’t an easy decision. In my opinion, though, while
both disciplines require that you learn much of the same material, electrical
engineers get to really apply the science in an in-depth and focused way.

## How did your time at Duke contribute to your eventual career path as an
entrepreneur?

While I knew I loved the science, I didn’t really have a good idea of what an
engineer did when I went off to college. Early on I thought I’d take the same
route a lot of others at Duke were taking by going into consulting or project
management, but then I met a lot of friends whose parents were entrepreneurs
and it opened my eyes to a completely different path.

The social atmosphere at Duke was a lot of fun. The residential experience
leant toward a very collaborative environment, and I learned a lot about how
to interact with people and how business works. I developed useful personality
traits and Duke’s environment fostered a lot of that.

## How did you get to the point of starting your own companies?

It was really a bit of a random walk. I was interviewing for jobs at
management consulting companies like Anderson Consulting and Bain my senior
year and decided to apply to graduate schools on a whim. By the time spring
rolled around, I had been accepted to Princeton with a fellowship. I was
interviewing with Mitsubishi in Boston and told them about the offer, and they
asked what the heck I was doing interviewing with them.

My advisor at Princeton was Steve Forrest, who was well-known in
optoelectronics. He got his start at Bell Labs and had a strong
entrepreneurial streak. While working with him I also met Greg Olsen, a very
well-known entrepreneur in the Princeton area, and we’ve been working together
ever since.

## How did your foundation in ECE contribute to your career path?

My thesis was in lasers and detectors in indium phosphide, which is a
semiconductor used in fiber optic communication systems. When I started my
work, it was just about the time the World Wide Web was just starting to
stretch its tentacles, and it was clear to me that all of the coming data
traffic would have to go through fiber, and I wanted to be part of it.

As it turns out, I was right, and the business did well. We sold it in 2000,
bought it back in 2002, and sold it again in 2005 to start a new challenge. I
was looking for a new investment and learned about silicon carbide, which is
the best material for power conversion at high voltages. It felt like the
early days of indium phosphide. Materials scientists knew it was good for
power conversion but it was just maturing, the substrates were just becoming
high-quality, and the market was just developing. My engineering background
allowed me to see what was on the horizon.

## What was a transformative moment for you while at Duke?

Well, meeting my wife was certainly a transformative moment. But there are two
others that are a testament to the professors at Duke that made a major impact
on my life.

First, it was freshman year and I was under a lot of pressure. My parents had
basically mortgaged their house to send me to Duke, so I was nervous going
into my first electrical engineering exam. I thought I knew the information
but when I got it back I had gotten a D. I sulked back to my dorm, looked at
it and started going through it. I noticed that it was only a few silly
arithmetic mistakes that propagated through the exam that were the reasons for
the wrong answers. I took it back to the professor and talked it over with him
and he changed it to an A-. Besides being a good learning experience, I
appreciated that the professors at Duke are really invested in their students’
success.

The second event was during my senior year. I was taking a class from Bill
Joines and waiting tables to try to make ends meet. I was in the middle of a
week of closing the place down at 3:00 in the morning and was practically
falling asleep during his class. Instead of yelling at me, he offered me a job
working in his lab. It was huge. It saved my life senior year. The work turned
into a little senior project, I got exposed to research, I earned more than I
did at the restaurant and I slept a lot better at night.

## How do you see electrical engineering at Duke now that you're a member of
Pratt's Board of Visitors?

It’s just terrific. The school is so much stronger now academically and in
terms of international reputation from when I was there. Dean Katsouleas has
been spectacular. Every time I go down for a Board of Visitors meeting I’m
excited to hear what they’ve accomplished in the previous six months. It’s a
great environment for students to learn in, and they’re keenly interested in
innovation and entrepreneurship.

## Any advice for future entrepreneurs?

This goes against how a lot of people feel these days, but I think students
interested in entrepreneurship should get a job first or work with someone
else who already owns a business before striking out on their own. They may
think they have an idea that’s so good that it has to be pursued immediately,
but becoming the next Mark Zuckerberg or Elon Musk is like getting struck by
lightning. More often than not, experience and great mentors are the keys to
success. There are a lot of basic things you have to learn before doing your
own thing. Even if they miss out on their idea, there’s always another one
right around the corner.

Meet More Alumni

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

