Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# Pramod Kolar

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About
  3. Alumni profiles

B.E., Electronics and Communication, National Institute of Technology
Karnataka  
PhD, ECE, Duke Engineering

## Tell us about your work at Microsoft. How long have you been in your
current role, and what are your responsibilities?

I am a senior designer at Microsoft, in the quantum computing group, focusing
on circuit design. I have been at Microsoft for about a year and a half, after
nearly 15 years working as an engineer at Intel. My PhD work, advised by
professor Hisham Massoud, was on quantum tunneling. That’s where I started,
and it looks like I’m looping back!

My primary responsibilities include circuit technology innovation, memory
circuit solutions for artificial intelligence (AI), evaluating technology
scaling and PPA (power, performance, area) studies, among other things.

## What’s your favorite thing about your job?

The innovation aspect is the best part of this job. Innovating new circuits
and coming up with new ways of solving problems from a circuit standpoint is
very interesting to me. It keeps the brain cells alive!

Sometimes, when I talk to students, I get the feeling that they think circuit
design is dead. That’s simply not true. They think most improvements are
coming from technology scaling, but that’s not happening as much anymore. It’s
plateauing, and no longer giving us the kind of results we’ve seen in the
past. So if you and all of your competition are using the same kind of core
components, how do you make your product shine? The answer is circuit design.
That’s where your “special sauce” comes in.

After a while, if you’re in very execution-oriented roles, it can become
difficult to do things like write papers and seek patents, because of the
pressures of deadlines and deliverables. I’m lucky to be at Microsoft, where
you can be in a technical track and go very far, but still have the
flexibility to create and come up with new ways of doing things.

## Why did you choose Duke for your PhD study?

Duke is known for more than engineering. There’s the medical school, the law
school—all sorts of other disciplines with strong reputations. In my mind,
engineers need to have a broad view of things, so I thought it would be a good
decision to go to a school where you get exposure to fields other than the one
you’re focused on.

In my work now, I definitely see proof of the importance of thinking broadly.
There are many pushes and pulls—what is the market doing? What are our
competitors doing? There are financial considerations, legal considerations.
Duke exposes you to all these disciplines and lets you see how all the aspects
of business and industry come together.

> "In my work now, I definitely see proof of the importance of thinking
> broadly. There are many pushes and pulls—what is the market doing? What are
> our competitors doing? There are financial considerations, legal
> considerations. Duke exposes you to all these disciplines and lets you see
> how all the aspects of business and industry come together."

For example, I worked on a Braille reader while at Duke. For that project, the
team spent time at the Duke Eye Center, working with some people with visual
impairments who could test out our equipment for us. They and the doctors gave
us feedback. We bounced ideas off of some people in Fuqua when we were making
a business plan. We had access to all this expertise, and it was all within
walking distance. That’s a huge selling point for a graduate program.

If you’re considering Duke, know that it’s a wonderful environment. You can
collaborate widely and see a good cross-section of research, beyond electrical
and computer engineering. And the faculty are world class.

## What advice do you have for students who are considering pursuing a PhD?

First, ask yourself: do you want to do this? You need to know that it’s a
long, hard slog. So, you really must like what you’re working on and you must
be prepared to take quite a few blows along the way. The upside is, earning a
PhD will really toughen you up. In the workplace you will differentiate
yourself as someone who is not intimidated by a challenge. You will gain
confidence in your own abilities. You will have mettle and know you can do
difficult things. I’ve seen that to be generally true of the PhDs I work
with—they keep at it. They don’t give up at the first sign of trouble. That’s
very important in our industry.

Meet Other Alumni

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

