Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# Robert J. Stets

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About
  3. Alumni profiles

### Robert J. Stets, BSE

_ECE and Computer Science, Class of 1992_

Software Engineer, Google  
Mountain View, Calif.

Since Robert Stets left Duke, he’s had many different jobs, including
designing computer memory chips for the Semiconductor Division of Mitsubishi
Electric; hardware design for Compaq; and developing handwriting recognition
applications for IBM. The common thread through Stets’s varied positions has
been his role as the glue that connects different technical specialties
together in order to execute complex tasks. Stets credits his foundations at
Duke for enabling him to communicate across highly specialized technical
fields in both electrical engineering and computer science. For more than a
decade now he’s been applying that talent at Google, helping to bring the
information of the world into practical application.

#### WHAT’S THE BEST WAY TO DESCRIBE WHAT YOU DO FOR GOOGLE?

I work in the Web search area at Google. You can divide Web search into two
main groups of work: algorithms that help generate results for Web queries,
and the infrastructure that executes those algorithms. Oftentimes people work
on one side or the other, because it’s very specialized work on both sides.
Because we work with a lot of demanding criteria, such as the number of search
queries we receive and the speed at which we need to process them, the
algorithms and the infrastructure need to be tailored to each other. So my
work is to do that—I drive a lot of the designs that we use for our
infrastructure, and I take into account our algorithm needs to make the most
effective system for generating results for Web searches.

Here’s a good example of the kind of work I do: I worked on a project called
Google Instant, which is the search-as-you-type function. When we added that
function to Google three years ago, it was a huge tax on our infrastructure
because there were so many more queries being done. So I worked to change the
algorithms we use for the search queries to make them more resource-efficient.
It required a really deep understanding of the algorithms that were being
used, so that we could figure out what could be sacrificed to lower the demand
on our resources; and if we sacrificed something in the algorithm, we needed
to teach the infrastructure to run that algorithm more efficiently. So it
required a balanced knowledge of both the algorithms and the infrastructure.
And that’s the kind of work I do.

#### THAT SOUNDS LIKE QUITE A TASK, TECHNICALLY SPEAKING.

I’ve always wanted to do this kind of work. But it is hard; it’s one of those
things where you need to be careful what you wish for!

#### IS THE CHALLENGE OF IT WHAT’S KEPT YOU AT GOOGLE FOR SUCH A LONG TIME?

It’s the ambition of the place. The company doesn’t settle. We’re trying very
hard and doing very ambitious things to improve—to really change the way
technology affects the world. Everything from self-driving cars to building an
intelligent assistant that automatically helps you throughout the day with
your activities. That in particular is something that I’ve always dreamed of
working on. The Web search work that I do forms the core of the intelligent
assistant research, so I’m really excited to be able to contribute to that.

#### WHAT WOULD AN INTELLIGENT ASSISTANT DO?

Say that you get off a plane at a layover airport. An intelligent assistant
would enable your phone to recognize that you’re at an airport, that you have
two hours until your next flight, that it’s lunchtime in your original time
zone so you’re probably hungry, and that your phone is low on batteries. Then
your phone would automatically scan the airport and tell you that there’s a
Bojangles down the hall, and there’s an electrical outlet for your phone in
the next sitting area. We’re building something that can do that.

I’ve had amazing opportunities, as an engineer, to be able to work on new
problems like this one; to develop new skills, and to push forward the way
technology can help people.

> I’ve had amazing opportunities, as an engineer, to be able to work on new
> problems, develop new skills and push forward the way technology can help
> people.

#### HOW DID STARTING OUT AT DUKE SHAPE THE PATH YOU’VE TAKEN AS AN ENGINEER?

I’ve benefitted from a really solid foundation at Duke in computer science as
well as electrical engineering, everything from designing hardware to
application programming. It’s given me a base that’s allowed me to learn new
things fairly quickly. And for my work I regularly have to learn new things so
that I can bridge communication between people who don’t know each other’s
specialties. That’s been a trait of my career: I’ve been able to have a
broader impact in what I’m doing, because I’ve been able to help people
realize their application ideas. Some people have ideas for applications but
no way to implement it at Google scale. And they aren’t able to really
communicate even what they want. But I’m able to go in and learn what they’re
doing, go the extra mile and figure out how their applications can be built.

Another thing about Duke was that I had a lot of opportunity as an
undergraduate to be able to do things outside of classes, such as research
during the summers. And those experiences showed me what graduate school could
be like, and how it could propel me. I wasn’t thinking at all about grad
school when I entered Duke, and by the end of it I knew I was going to go to
grad school. So the breadth of the foundation and the opportunities at Duke
were really invaluable to me. My time there set me on a different path than I
would have taken if I’d gone to another type of school.

Meet Other Alumni

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

