Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# Samantha Archer

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About
  3. Alumni profiles

### Samantha Archer, ECE and Math, Class of 2020

**Hometown: Alexandria, VA**  
 **Position: Hardware Engineer, NVIDIA**

#### Tell us about your job! How do you arrive where you are?

I am a hardware engineer at NVIDIA. I work on synthesis, which is a step in
the process of designing computer chips. Synthesis bridges the initial, more
abstract phase of designing a chip and the physical design—all of this occurs
before a chip is a fabricated. I was always interested in hardware, and I was
lucky to land an internship at NVIDIA on the Place and Route team the summer
before my senior year at Duke. When I returned as a full-time engineer, I
decided I wanted to learn something new, so I switched teams and ended up
working on synthesis.

#### How did the skills you learned at Duke prepare you for this role?

I learned much about the chip design process at Duke, however, I didn’t take
any classes on synthesis in particular. Most of my synthesis learning has
occurred on the job. In my design classes, however, I developed strong
communication and teamwork skills. I also learned how to ask for productive
feedback. These soft skills have been equally important to any technical
skills I’ve developed at Duke and as an engineer.

Above all else, though, my participation in DTech—Duke Technology Scholars—is
what prepared me the most for the workforce, particularly as a woman working
in tech. Through relationships with my peers and through industry mentorship,
DTech taught me how to navigate the industry, speak up for myself, and
communicate my ideas.

> "If you’re interested in a class or a subject, don’t be afraid to go out of
> your comfort zone."

#### Why did you choose Duke?

I toured Duke, and it was love at first sight. The engineering school
particularly piqued my interest. I remember on the tour they told us about
E-Ball, and I thought that made the engineering school sound like a great
balance of academics and amusement.

I was interested in everything Duke had to offer. Duke engineering students
can explore subjects outside of engineering. During my time as an undergrad, I
participated in Duke Engage and studied abroad in Sydney, Australia. I pursued
my academic interests outside of class by being a TA, volunteering with
FEMMES+, and doing undergraduate research with Dr. Daniel Sorin and Dr. Robert
Calderbank. Our research focused a data encoding project, using mathematical
techniques to protect data from errors in memory systems.

#### What was your favorite class at Duke?

ECE 350, Digital Systems

My favorite class was ECE 350, Digital Systems, which was a deeper dive into
circuit design and the process of designing computers. As someone who likes
hardware, I found the material really engaging. Towards the end of the
semester, you complete a bigger, more technical design project. Earlier in the
course, you design a processor, and for the final project, you deploy the
processor to create a project of your choice. My partner and I designed a
Tetris game that we built from scratch, and along with it, we designed a
footpad, _Dance Dance Revolution-_ style. So, it was Tetris that you played
with your feet. I had such a great experience in this class, and I wound up
being a TA for ECE 350 for the rest of my time at Duke.

#### What advice do you have for engineering students who are just beginning
at Duke, and finding their way?

If you’re interested in a class or a subject, don’t be afraid to go out of
your comfort zone. On the one hand, you might really enjoy it—I loved all the
classes I took in history, humanities, and public policy. On the other hand,
if you don’t like something, trying something and realizing it’s not for you
is just as valuable of an experience.

And, have fun!

Meet other alumni

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

