Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# Steven McClelland E'95

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About
  3. Alumni profiles

####

### Steven McClelland E'95

**VP, Product Management, Yahoo!**  
 **San Francisco, Calif.**

Steven McClelland is VP of product management at Yahoo, where he manages the
ways that Yahoo creates, distributes and manages its content. He joined Yahoo!
in 2010 when it acquired Citizen Sports, where he served as both chief
architect and a product strategist. Prior to that, he founded Interdimensions,
a Web-consulting company that designed and built systems ranging from content
management to cache routing for clients.

#### HOW HAS YOUR ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING DEGREE SERVED YOU IN YOUR CAREER?

My engineering education taught me how to think and talk about technology and
systems in order to solve problems. I learned about architecture – how the
parts of a system work and how it all works together – and how to narrow down
where to look when you see symptoms of an issue.

Pratt gave me tons of core technology exposure and lots of opportunities to
work on a range of ways to solve problems. I even got to build actual
products, including an electric car.

All of that prepared me for how I apply technology in my career. I’m always
thinking about how to match the technology to the actual product usage, what
pieces are necessary to do that, what the interface is between those pieces
and what could go wrong.

#### WHAT DO YOU SEE AS THE GROWTH AREAS IN ELECTRICAL AND COMPUTER
ENGINEERING TODAY?

It’s an especially good time to get into product development because of all
the progress being made in terms of combining software and hardware in new
types of devices. When I got out of school, there were a lot of incubators and
startups in software, but not a lot in hardware and fields like biomedical
engineering. No one really knew how to bring those things together and use
them in products.

Since then, there have been so many advances based upon the progress made in
technology and circuitry. Every great product today has a lot of software and
networking capability, and hardware is increasingly playing a bigger,
differentiated role in many products.

#### WHAT DO YOU THINK WAS THE VALUE OF EARNING YOUR ENGINEERING DEGREE FROM
DUKE?

Being at Duke taught me that the most innovative solutions come about when the
people working on a problem come from both inside and outside the technology
field. The more people there are thinking about a problem in different ways,
the more solutions and opportunities for innovation you can come up with.

Engineers tend to bring a practical approach to solving problems, and when you
combine that with, for instance, the creativity of people like artists and
musicians, it creates great things all the way around.

This way of thinking is important not only in today’s product-development
world, but also in helping me build a solid team of people with different
skill sets and sensibilities.

Meet more Alumni

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

