Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# Tynesia Boyea-Robinson E'99, MBA

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About
  3. Alumni profiles

President and CEO, Reliance Methods  
Director of Collective Impact, Living Cities  
Washington, DC

Tynesia Boyea-Robinson is president and CEO of Reliance Methods, a Washington,
D.C.-based strategy and talent solutions firm she founded in 2011. Another of
her many roles is Director of Collective Impact for Living Cities, a
collaboration of some of the world’s largest foundations and financial
institutions aimed at improving the lives and communities of the economically
disadvantaged.

## What are you passionate about?

I’m very passionate about ensuring all people have access to opportunities
that allow them to not just survive, but thrive. Some of the best pathway
opportunities are in the sciences, and women and minorities are often
underrepresented. I often share my experiences with young people—especially
women and people of color—to expose them to the many pathways available when
they enter fields like engineering and computer science.

I’m also passionate about working with employers—many of whom are used to
looking in rather narrow places for talent and kind of writing off some parts
of the population—and helping them come up with creative ways to attract and
retain good employees. I try to help them see that by considering and hiring
people they may not have looked at in the past, they gain a competitive edge
and do something good.

> "As engineers, we should try to leave the world a better place than it was
> before we got here."
>
> TYnesia Boyea-Robinson ECE/CS'99, MBA

## How did your time at Pratt help you prepare for the many roles you now
play?

As an undergraduate, I was—and still am—excited by the way engineers think and
solve problems, and the questions they’re able to answer on a completely
different level. I learned that whether they’re designing a computer program
or a cerebral shunt, engineers are taught to use the same thought processes
and rigor to solve all types of problems. I rely on those problem-solving
skills every day.

I also learned the importance of doing cross-disciplinary work—of reaching out
to people outside of my field to get different perspectives on a problem—and
putting all that information together to come up with solutions. This is
something else that my career calls for every day.

My time at Duke showed me how engineers can help solve the world’s problems
and helped me develop the tools to be one of those people. That gave me
confidence about what I, myself, could accomplish.

## What's special about Duke's ECE program?

Duke Engineering is a culture that demands excellence, and students are taught
to use their brains to make the impossible possible. I was always challenged
to push myself to the edge of my learning curve to achieve concrete, sustained
excellence.

There’s a strong emphasis on using what you learn to solve problems–as opposed
to designing widgets. This is especially valuable in today’s workforce and
economy, where “What problems do you solve?” is becoming a more relevant
question than “What do you do?”

Pratt faculty members understand that, and they stress the idea that as
engineers, we should try to leave the world a better place than it was before
we got here.

## What advice would you give today's engineering student?

I would tell them to really take advantage of all Duke has to offer while
they’re there. The faculty members know what they’re teaching inside and out,
and they bring a lot of real-life experience to the classroom. I specifically
remember Dr. [Richard] Fair having a lot of awesome stories.

I would also advise students to never limit themselves in what they do and
think they can do – which is advice I would give to anyone.

When I was growing up, I wanted to be a performer; I wanted to be Debbie
Allen. It didn’t quite turn out that way, but I always knew that I wanted to
do something that would challenge me and that I could use no matter where I
ended up. Engineering definitely has that; you can use those skills anywhere.

Meet More Alumni

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

