

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News » Archives

# News Archive for Faculty

August 03, 2021 | Duke Center for Advanced Genomic Technologies

### New Mice Enable CRISPR-based Epigenome Editing in Living Animals

Researchers have developed two new transgenic mouse lines that will enable
broad studies into gene regulation

August 02, 2021 | Duke Translation and Commercialization

### Tyrata Automated Tire Monitoring Safely Extends Bus Tire Life by 12%

GoDurham bus system saves $1,000 annually per vehicle with Tyrata’s
IntelliTread tire monitoring system

August 02, 2021

### ‘Network of Networks’ to Advance International Efforts for Sustainable
Materials

Duke-led INFRAMES initiative will connect researchers across fields and
nations to build the collaborations and resources needed to study the
sustainability of tomorrow’s materials

July 29, 2021 | Duke Today

### NSF Launches Artificial Intelligence Center at Duke

The new $20 Million, 5-Year effort led by Yiran Chen aims to improve mobile
systems and networks with AI

July 27, 2021

### Setting Boundaries Helps Machine Learning Find One-in-a-Trillion Solutions

New “neural-adjoint” machine learning method can help researchers find optimal
solutions in extremely large design spaces such as dielectric metamaterials
for communications

July 26, 2021 | Center for International and Global Studies

### An Exciting Step Towards a Shared Research-Policy Agenda in "Artisanal and
Small-scale Gold Mining"

Stakeholders from academia, NGOs, industry, government, and international
organizations convene to identify the most pressing questions in the ASGM
sector

July 26, 2021

### Catching Waves

Duke ECE’s Steven Cummer, the William H. Younger Distinguished Professor of
Engineering, discusses new metamaterials research in this Q&A– and explains
why invisibility paint is not on the horizon

July 22, 2021 | Oak Ridge National Laboratory

### Buzz About Thermoelectrics Heats Up With Promising New Magnesium-Based
Materials

Researchers have gained new fundamental insights into two magnesium-based
materials that have the potential to significantly outperform traditional
thermoelectric designs

July 20, 2021

### Morales Named Executive Director of Duke’s Master of Engineering
Management Program

An executive-in-residence with the program since 2017, Morales wants to
deliver a transformative student experience underpinned by the program’s
“Professionalism and Five Principles"

July 19, 2021 | Duke Government Relations

### Investing in Water and Sanitation Infrastructure With Equity in Mind

Duke experts discuss the role of environmental justice in access to affordable
and sustainable water and sanitation

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * …
  * 19
  * 20
  * 21
  * 22
  * 23
  * 24
  * 25
  * 26
  * 27
  * …
  * next ›
  * last »

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

