Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Awards & Honors

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About

## Undergraduate

### Graduation with Departmental Distinction

Earned by graduating seniors who have attained a 3.500-plus cumulative GPAs,
and completed independent study projects culminating in both a written paper
and oral presentation judged by the department's Awards & Honors Committee to
be distinguished.

### ASCE Outstanding Senior Prize

Presented annually to a graduating civil engineering senior, or seniors, in
recognition of an exceptional, positive impact on the Duke student chapter of
American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE).

### Aubrey E. Palmer Award

Presented annually to a civil engineering or environmental engineering senior
in recognition of outstanding academic achievement.

### Eric I. Pas Award

Presented annually to the graduating civil engineering or environmental
engineering senior who conducted the most outstanding independent study
project.

### William Brewster Snow Award

Presented annually to seniors who have demonstrated academic excellence,
interest, and enthusiasm in the study of environmental engineering.

### Chi Epsilon

The Duke University chapter of Chi Epsilon, established in 1964, recognizes
academic achievement and demonstrated character, practicality, and
sociability.

* * *

## Graduate

### Robert J. Melosh Medal

Judged by distinguished researchers in computational mechanics, this medal is
awarded to the best student paper on finite element analysis as presented by
finalists at the symposium held each spring at Duke.

### Senol Utku Annual Award

For best pre-Ph.D. peer-reviewed journal papers. The competition rewards the
graduate student/faculty advisor team for intellectual excellence, creativity
and highest quality work. The award promotes early writing of research
articles among graduate students.

### Jeffrey B. Taub Award

Voted annually by the environmental engineering graduate students and
presented to a graduate student who best exhibits maturity of thought and
independence, and who best integrates past training with the environmental
profession.

* * *

## Faculty

### Earl I. Brown II Outstanding Civil Engineering Faculty Award

Presented by the student membership of the Duke chapter of Chi Epsilon, the
national civil engineering honor society.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

