Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Serving a Global Society

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About

Civil engineers and environmental engineers design solutions that improve the
human condition—an embodiment of Duke's mission of knowledge in service to
society

Duke's Civil & Environmental Engineering programs feature several distinctive
research and educational efforts by our faculty members that are making
impacts globally:

## Research

### Finding Global Sanitation Solutions

Despite progress on the UN’s millennium goal to improve sanitation worldwide,
2.4 billion people are still using unimproved sanitation facilities, including
the nearly one billion people who practice open defecation. The result is the
spread of diarrheal germs which, according to the CDC, are the cause of 1 in 9
child deaths worldwide—the second most common cause of death among children
under the age of 5.

Several research projects are underway within Duke CEE to address this issue.
A neighborhood-scale fecal sludge processing system is being developed to
provide human waste treatment for communities of 1,000-1,200 people. A
combined toilet and processing system is being engineered to offer onsite
treatment for groups of 20-50 people. Effective methods of odor control for
these and many other solutions are also being investigated.

This work has been made possible through funding from the Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation.

The principal investigator is Marc Deshusses.

### Creating Tools to Assess the Environmental Impact of New Materials

Leveraging what was learned during the operation of Duke's Center for the
Environmental Implications of NanoTechnology (CEINT), a global “network of
networks” is being created to address the largest questions looming about the
environmental impacts of emerging materials.

Funded by a five-year, $1.6 million grant from the National Science
Foundation’s AccelNET program, the new initiative is called the International
Network for Researching, Advancing, and Assessing Materials for Environmental
Sustainability—or INFRAMES.

The network's leader is Mark Wiesner.

### Studying Air Quality

A research group headed by Michael Bergin, looking at the influence of air
pollution on both climate and human health, has conducted a wide range of
studies on the emission, formation, deposition and impacts of particulate
matter.

The Bergin group is studying the influence of particulate matter on human
health with emphasis on determining the relative contributions of sources
(such as biomass burning and vehicular emissions) to acute health impacts.
Research studies have been conducted in pristine regions of the world
(Greenland and the Himalayas), as well as hazy regions (Southeastern U.S.,
China and India).

The group is also involved in developing and deploying the next generation of
air quality sensors to inform citizens on the quality of the air they are
breathing so that they can make informed decisions to improve their air.

### Mitigating Earthquake Hazards

Henri P. Gavin, with a team of New Zealand researchers from the University of
Canterbury, GNS Science (Wellington) and the Canterbury District Health Board,
is examining the behavior of a base-isolated structure in Christchurch via an
array of seismic response instruments, detailed computational modeling, and
measurements of local soil conditions.

This work is funded throught two grants from the National Science Foundation
and has contributed to engineering assessments of the 2010-2011 Canterbury
Earthquake Sequence.

## International Outreach

### Ghana: Kwame Nkruma University of Science and Technology

For more than 14 years, CEE faculty member Fred K. Boadu has regularly
returned to the university where he gained his first degree, Kwame Nkrumah
University of Science and Technology (KNUST) in Ghana, to help the physics and
engineering departments develop their curriculums. Boadu helped set up the
first geophysics course at the university and often returns to Ghana to teach
students, with support from the Carnegie African Diaspora Fellowship Program,
of which he is a fellow.

The Carnegie African Diaspora Fellowship Program has supported 110 short-term
fellowships for North American academics at higher education institutes in six
African countries: Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria, South Africa, Tanzania and Uganda.

  * Watch a video about Boadu's work in Ghana

### Duke Engineers for International Development (DEID)

Duke Engineers for International Development (DEID) is a student organization
supporting cost-effective and high-impact engineering projects that improve
communities in the United States and around the world.

DEID projects combine community-driven ideas with student design. The work
involves a wide range of engineering disciplines and promotes a sense of
international responsibility.

Previous projects have included building vocational classrooms in Uganda,
construction of a suspension footbridge in Rwanda and the design of a system
to remove litter from a creek a few miles from the Duke campus in Durham, N.C.

Students who participate in a DEID project can earn credit toward the
department’s Certificate in Global Development Engineering.

DEID’s faculty advisor is David Schaad.

## Educational Programs

### Certificate in Global Development Engineering

The innovative Certificate in Global Development Engineering prepares
engineers to partner with marginalized and disadvantaged people around the
world to implement designed solutions to meet specific community needs.

To earn the certificate, students undergo training in technical subjects as
well as culture and language, ethics, public policy and economics. In addition
to course work, those who pursue the certificate get real-world experience,
implementing a designed solution either in the United States or abroad, as
well as during a project-focused capstone course.

The certificate program director is David Schaad.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

