

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Industry Relations
  * Leadership
  * News
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
    * The Duke Difference
    * Career Services
    * Graduate Outcomes
    * What Tech Leaders Are Saying
  * Degree
  * Certificate
  * Courses
  * Faculty
  * Apply

__

# Using AI to Teach AI in Duke's Master of Engineering Degree Program

December 17, 2020

Duke is solving challenges in online education through a novel application of
AI — the 'Intelligent Classroom Assistant'

The response to the COVID-19 pandemic has dramatically accelerated the ongoing
expansion of online learning across almost all higher education institutions
globally, including Duke. While online education offers the promise of making
education more affordable, accessible and flexible for learners, it also
presents unique challenges for instructors in delivering certain pedagogical
methods.

Research in learning science over the last few decades has provided strong
evidence that teaching practices such as mastery learning and 1:1 personalized
tutoring coupled with regular formative assessments can significantly improve
student outcomes from courses across the range of fields of learning  by as
much as two standard deviations . Yet it remains one of the most vexing
problems in education that there is a tradeoff between scale and achievable
quality of education: as class sizes grow larger, the ability of an instructor
to provide the type of personalized guidance required to execute the most
effective pedagogical methods is diminished. The faculty and students in
Duke's AI for Product Innovation Master of Engineering  (MEng) program are
working to solve this problem through a novel application of artificial
intelligence in the form of an "Intelligent Classroom Assistant" that uses
machine learning to analyze patterns of student performance and extract
insights for both instructors and learners to improve the class learning
experience.

> "The tool gave us insights on a level we never previously had to how well
> our students were grasping the various important topics covered in the
> course."
>
> **Jon Reifschneider**  
>  director, Duke AI for Product Innovation Master of Engineering program

Artificial intelligence is finding increasing use in almost every industry,
and education is no exception. A 2020 study commissioned by Microsoft found
that 99 percent of universities surveyed had plans to integrate AI into their
operations within the next three years. The top use case identified for AI was
to modernize learning in order to improve student engagement and outcomes.

Research efforts underway across a number of universities in recent years have
made advances in the application of machine learning technology to analyze and
predict student performance patterns. Yet many of these efforts have focused
on analyzing historical data organized in well-curated reference datasets,
rather than on the development of operational tools that instructors can use
in-semester to support their teaching.

In summer 2020 Duke Engineering faculty member Jon Reifschneider, the director
of Duke's AI for Product Innovation (AIPI) MEng program, set out to answer the
question: "How can we use the tools of machine learning to extract insights
from the ever-increasing amount of course data available online—recorded
lectures, homework, electronic assessments, etc.—to inform instructors where
each student is in their progression towards achieving the learning objectives
of a course?"

If instructors have better visibility into what each student in their course
has mastered to date and is struggling with at any point during a semester,
they are in a much better position to deliver effective personalized guidance
to each student. Likewise, such insights can help learners focus their time
and efforts in reinforcing areas where they have not yet mastered the topics.

The research effort led to the development of a tool called the "Intelligent
Classroom Assistant." The tool reads in and analyzes data from electronically-
submitted quizzes, homework and assessments and builds a map of how well each
student has mastered each of the class topics covered to date. To do so it
utilizes a novel natural language processing and machine learning model
developed as the backbone of the tool. Although still under development at the
time, the Intelligent Classroom Assistant was utilized by Professors
Reifschneider and Daniel Egger in the AIPI 510 course they taught in Fall
2020.

"The tool gave us insights on a level we never previously had to how well our
students were grasping the various important topics covered in the course,"
said Reifschneider. "Since we were better able to understand where our
students were in their learning each week, we were able to customize our class
time and individual guidance sessions to focus on areas where it was clear
from the data that reinforcement was needed."

Work continues to further improve the performance of the algorithm behind the
tool and the instructor interface, and the team is also testing it on data
from two additional courses: another graduate engineering course and a large,
200-plus person undergraduate course. It will be used as well this Spring in
Reifschneider's AIPI 520 machine learning course.

The team also plans to add a student interface for students to view their own
"mastery map" to better focus their studying efforts together with
functionality to provide students with automated personalized recommendations
for study resources to utilize. The Intelligent Classroom Assistant is
ultimately expected to become an important part of the Master of Engineering
AIPI courses program, helping students to maximize their learning experience
at Duke.

Browse Course Descriptions

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
      *  __The Duke Difference
      *  __Career Services
      *  __Graduate Outcomes
      *  __What Tech Leaders Are Saying
    *  __Degree
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Courses
    *  __Faculty
    *  __Apply
  * __Quick Links
    * __Industry Relations
    *  __Leadership
    *  __News
    *  __Contact

    * 

