Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Global Development Engineering Certificate

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Undergraduate
  3. Degrees
  4. Certificates

Learn problem-solving skills to make a world of difference

Global development engineers work in an emerging and exciting field.

They partner with marginalized or disadvantaged people to implement designed
solutions to specified societal needs.

### Big Impacts

Students report on projects in Honduras, Uganda, Madagascar and the US

This field combines technical and problem-solving skills with ethical
understanding and cultural competency.

Global development engineers partner with people around the world on projects
that address issues such as economic empowerment, environmental quality and
access to health care.

Duke's **Certificate in Global Development Engineering** features an
innovative curricular pathway that includes training in:

  * Technical subjects
  * Culture and language
  * Ethics
  * Public policy
  * Economics

In addition to coursework, those who pursue the certificate get **real-world
experience** , implementing a designed solution either in the United States or
abroad, and during a project-focused capstone course.

* * *

## Certificate Requirements

Successful completion of seven (7) courses and one experiential component will
lead to a Certificate in Global Development Engineering:

  * One (1) introductory course
  * Three (3) global competency courses
  * Two (2) Technical courses
  * One (1) capstone course
  * An experiential component

### Important Note—'Double-Counting' Limited

In accordance with Duke policy, students may only “double count” two (2)
courses for both this certificate and their major.

**For CE and EnvE Students:** If you are counting CEE 315 (Engineering
Sustainable Design and the Global Community) as an Upper Level Elective, then
you will only be able to “count” one (1) of your required major classes for
the certificate, and will need to take an additional technical course in
CE/EnvE, or from outside the department.

**For BME Students:** If you are counting BME 462 (Design for the Developing
World) as your required BME capstone, then you will only be able to “count”
one (1) of your required major classes for the certificate and will need to
take an additional technical course in BME, or another department, to fulfill
the certificate requirements.

* * *

## Course Details

Introductory Course (select one)

    

  * BME 290-02/GLHLTH 390-02: Medical Technologies and Global Women’s Health
  * CEE 160L: Introduction to Environmental Engineering and Science
  * EGR190: Engineering the Planet
  * GLHLTH 101: Fundamentals of Global Health
  * EOS/ENVIRON 330: Energy and the Environment

Global Competency (select three)

    

#### Select one (1) from Language & Culture

Must be a functional proficiency course, level 203 or higher, **or** a
corresponding curricular competency course in another culture with an explicit
focus or major goal being cultural competency, from one of the following Duke
academic departments:

  * African and African American Studies
  * Asian and Middle Eastern Studies
  * Cultural Anthropology (course specifically related to culture)
  * German Studies
  * Jewish Studies
  * Latin American Studies
  * Latino Studies in the Global South
  * Romance Studies
  * South Asian Studies
  * Slavic and Eurasian Studies

#### Select one (1) from Ethics

Examples include:

  * PUBPOL 330/GLHLTH 210 Global Health Ethics
  * GLHLTH 373S Global Health Service, Research, Ethics
  * GLHLTH 341 Ethics of Infectious Disease
  * PHIL 281/GLHLTH 241 Global Bioethics
  * PUBPOL 224S Doing Good: Anthropological Perspectives on Development
  * PUBPOL 372 Information, Policy and Ethics
  * PUBPOL 258S Science, Ethics and Society

#### Select one (1) from Policy OR Economics

##### Policy

Examples include:

  * GLHLTH 303 Global Health Systems & Policy
  * PUBPOL 190FS International Law & Global Health
  * PUBPOL 590 Comparative Health Care Systems
  * PUBPOL 207 Development and Africa
  * PUBPOL 212 Globalization and Public Policy
  * PUBPOL 222 International Political Economy
  * PUBPOL 288 International Trade
  * PUBPOL 289 Public Finance
  * PUBPOL 515S Assisting Development
  * PUBPOL 574 Economic Evaluation of Sustainable Development
  * PUBPOL 579S Collective Action, Environment and Development
  * PUBPOL 582: Global Environmental Health: Economics and Policy
  * PUBPOL 598 Economic Growth and Development Policy
  * ENV 212 US Environmental Policy
  * ENV 265 Environmental Law and Policy
  * ENV 550 Land Use Principles and Policy
  * ENV 577 Environmental Politics

##### Economics

Examples include:

  * ECON 248 Racial and Ethnic Economic Inequality: A Cross National
    Perspective
  * ECON 269A Australia and the Asia-Pacific Economies
  * ECON 303A Political Philosophy of Globalization
  * ECON 306 Economic History and Modernization of the Islamic Middle East
  * ECON 324A International Finance
  * ECON 326S Islam and the State: Political Economy of Governance in the
    Middle East
  * ECON 347 African Economic Development
  * ECON 355 International Trade
  * ECON 361 Prisoner's Dilemma and Distributive Justice
  * ECON 370 Global Capital Markets
  * ECON 376A Financial Markets in the Global Economy
  * ECON 379 Emerging Markets: Finance, Trade, Institutions and the World
    Economy
  * ECON 442 Development Economics: Theory, Evidence and Policy
  * ECON 455 International Finance
  * ENV 363/Econ 369 Environmental Economics and Policy
  * ENV 520 Resource and Environmental Economics I
  * ENV 531 Economic Analysis of Resources and Environmental Policies

Technical Tracks (select two courses in one track)

    

#### **Water**

Examples include:

  * CEE 461L. Chemical Principles in Environmental Engineering
  * CEE 462L. Biological Principles in Environmental Engineering
  * CEE 463L. Water Resources
  * EOS 524 Water Quality and Public Health
  * EOS 525 Water Pollution
  * ENV 501 Environmental Toxicology
  * ENV/BIO 564 Biogeochemistry

#### **Energy**

Examples include:

  * ENRGYEGR 310. Introduction to Energy Generation, Delivery, Conversion, and
    Efficiency
  * *ENRGYEGR 490.01. Bioenergy
  * *ENRGYEGR 490.02 (ME 490.01). Energy for the Built Environment
  * *ENRGYEGR 490.03. Renewable Energy Technologies
  * *ENRGYEGR 490.04. Power Electronics
  * *ENRGYEGR 490.05. Modern Power Systems
  * ENVIRON 631. Energy Technology and the Impact on the Environment
  * ME 461. Energy Engineering and the Environment
  * ECE 496 Solar Cells
  * PHYSICS 137S. Energy in the 21st Century and Beyond

_*ENRGYEGR 490.xx. special topics courses are new, and will be assigned
different, permanent courses numbers in future academic years._

#### **Appropriate Technology**

Examples include:

  * BME 562 Biology by Design
  * BME 563 Transport Process in HIV Transmission & Prevention
  * BME 567 Biosensors
  * BME 570L Introduction to Biomolecular Engineering
  * BME 571L Biotechnology and Bioprocess Engineering
  * BME 574 Modeling and Engineering Gene Circuits
  * BME 577 Drug Transport Analysis
  * BME 578 Tissue Engineering
  * CEE 422 Reinforced Concrete Design
  * CEE 423 Structural Steel Design
  * EGR 190 Engineering and Human Needs in the Developing World (Ghana)

Design and Implementation Capstone (select one)

    

  * CE315/PPS211/ENV356. Engineering Sustainable Design and the Global
    Community
  * EGR 424L. (or ENV 452) Energy and Environment Design (must have a
    developing world focus)
  * BME 462L Design for the Developing World

Experiential Component

    

During the experiential component, you implement a designed solution to an
identified need. This can be accomplished during a DukeEngage experience, or
by participating with student organizations such as Engineering World Health
and Duke Engineers for International Development.

The component is typically a month-long experience in a setting, within the
United States or internationally, where you team with a community partner to
identify, design and implement your idea.

In advance of completing their experiential component, the student (or group
of students) should email Dr. David Schaad, the faculty director of the
certificate, a brief, one-page summary of the proposed experience that
provides these five items:

  1. Where the experience will take place?
  2. Who is the community partner?
  3. Who is the faculty mentor for the project?
  4. When will the project take place?
  5. A brief synopsis of the designed intervention

#### For Summer Experiences

If this is a summer experience, please **submit this email by the beginning of
Spring Break in the semester prior** to when the summer experience is going to
be conducted. The committee will meet to consider all submissions and will
provide feedback to the students by April 10th about their proposal and if the
project is approved for meeting the certificate requirements. If it is
approved, a post-implementation report will be required following the
completion of the experience demonstrating how the learning objectives were
achieved, the partnership was enhanced, and student reflections on the
experience.

## Certificate Contact

### David E. Schaad, Ph.D., P.E., BCEE, D.WRE

Professor of the Practice of Civil & Environmental Engineering

__(919) 660-5174

__david.schaad@duke.edu

## Undergraduate Contacts

### Joseph Nadeau

Professor of the Practice and Director of Undergraduate Studies

__919-660-5216

__nadeau@duke.edu

### Nicolle Hinz

Program Coordinator

__919-660-4977

__nicolle.hinz@duke.edu

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

