

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2017

# Engineering Change in the Developing World

May 9, 2017

After being founded in 2001, Engineering World Health now has over 40
different chapters at different universities across the nation

"If you really want to help the developing world, you have to be in the
developing world,” says Engineering World Health co-founder Robert Malkin,
professor of the practice of biomedical engineering. “By being on the ground,
you improve your chances of making a difference.”

Engineering World Health (EWH) was founded in 2001 after Professor Malkin
began doing surgical trips in the developing world. He quickly realized that
the hospitals as a whole needed help. Now, over 40 different chapters of EWH
exist at different universities across the nation. The organization has
expanded its reach to six different countries, where students work to repair
medical equipment in hospitals in developing nations.

The original purpose of EWH was to organize medical equipment donations, but
it was altered after the donations were deemed to be less effective than they
were originally thought to be. “We found it better to organize students to get
on the ground and help with repairing equipment that other people had
donated,” says Professor Malkin on the shift in the organization’s priorities.

EWH began to not only focus on getting students into the hospitals, but also
on creating more permanent solutions to the lack of trained technicians
locally. The Biomedical Engineering Technicians training program (BMET) began
in 2009 with the goal of doing just that.

According to EWH’s website, nearly 40 percent of critical medical equipment in
developing countries is in need of repair or replacement. The goal of the BMET
is to develop a local workforce trained to repair the medical equipment that
sits unused in hospitals that desperately need it.

Since its implementation in Rwanda with the help of The GE Foundation, the
BMET training program has had major success and has expanded to Ghana,Cambodia
and Honduras. EWH, along with Developing World Healthcare Technologies Lab
(DHT), has created a library of resources to continue to help the graduates of
BMET after they complete the program.

Over the years, EWH’s priorities have shifted toward building more sustainable
solutions to the problem of broken medical equipment. The biggest barrier
facing the developing world in terms of medical equipment, however, is that
equipment itself is often not designed to function well in low-resource
settings. Many companies and venture capitalists deem medical equipment in the
developing world too risky of an endeavor.

“There is not very much money in the developing world, meaning the number-one
thing that would drive innovation is absent,” says Professor Malkin on the
lack of medical equipment built for low-resource settings. “Things like the
notion of credit and the ability to access funds when needed are absent in the
developing world, which makes it very difficult for companies to get started.”

Because of the lack of money and innovation flowing into these developing
regions, organizations like EWH play a vital role in the development of
hospitals in low-resource settings. EWH differs from other organizations by
helping hospitals become more self-sustaining, thereby benefiting healthcare
in the long run.

It can be challenging to assess what is needed to make an impact in the
developing world. Though it is nearly impossible to enter into another country
and not impact it negatively in some way, according to Professor Malkin, there
is a best way to make a change.

“It is more likely that you will succeed if you’re face to face with the
people,” says Professor Malkin. “It’s the easiest way to see what is working
and what is not working. By being on the ground you improve your chances of
making a difference.”

With each trip, EWH strives to make that difference and to aid in the effort
of improving the lives of many in developing regions across the world.

**Camille Carr is a first-year Pratt student majoring in mechanical
engineering.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2017

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

