

Skip to main content

  * Duke University
  * Pratt School of Engineering

  * Apply Online
  * Visit
  * Contact

__

  * About
    * Is Duke Right for Me?
    * About the MEng Degree at Duke
    * Courses and Curriculum
    * Internship/Project
    * Career Services & Outcomes
    * Options for Current Duke Students
    * Non-Degree Candidates
  * Apply
    * How to Apply
    * Connect With Us
    * Visit Duke
    * Application Requirements
    * Application Deadlines
    * Apply Online
    * Tuition and Financial Aid

__

# English Language Testing

International applicants must submit official test scores unless eligible for
a waiver

All international students may be required to take English placement exams
prior to the start of classes, pending their language score submission
provided in their application for admission to the Pratt School of
Engineering.

Submitting Duolingo English Test scores will allow students to waive
additional placement exams. Depending on placement results, students are
either exempt from or placed into English course(s). Students with English
course requirements must make satisfactory progress toward completing these
requirements while in the program.

It can take several weeks for scores to arrive at schools, so you should plan
to take the test or order prior scores at least one month before the deadline
you seek.

Read about waiver opportunities »

## Duolingo is Preferred _  
_

The Duolingo English Test is the preferred language testing option of the
Admissions & Recruiting team at the Pratt School of Engineering. For more
information on the Duolingo English Test, visit the Duolingo website at
englishtest.duolingo.com/applicants.

### Why Duolingo?

  * Costs a fraction of the other leading language assessments
  * Offers reduced test time
  * It is a convenient, secure at-home exam
  * It is accepted by universities around the world
  * Provides results within 48 hours of exam completion
  * Your results can be shared with unlimited institutions at no extra cost

Plus, Duolingo seamlessly integrates with your application to the Pratt School
of Engineering. It provides a further dimension to your candidacy by allowing
for video interviews and writing samples to be captured and viewed by the
admissions committee. As such, if you do attend Pratt School of Engineering,
you will not have to be additionally assessed for language classes when you
submit a Duolingo English Test as part of your application.

### Important Notice

If you opt to submit scores from other standardized assessments, you may be
required to complete additional language testing upon acceptance into our
programs.

## Reporting Your Score

### Duolingo

Report official scores _and subscores_ :

  * "Graduate" program type, _and_
  * “Duke University Graduate Programs: Graduate School; Divinity;
    Engineering; Environment; Public Policy; Duke Kunshan”  
 _— Important notes: There is no institution code. Also, score reports without
subscores will not be accepted. If you are not sure how to include subscores
in your score report, please contact Duolingo English Test support on the
Duolingo English Test website._

### Other Tests

#### TOEFL

Report official scores to **Institution Code 5156** (Duke University). [
_Note: There is no department code._ ]

#### IELTS

Report official scores to "Duke University Pratt School of Engineering."

## Name Discrepancies

We receive TOEFL scores electronically from the Educational Testing Service
and IELTS results via mail from Cambridge ESOL, British Council, and IDP:
IELTS Australia. Because we match scores by an applicant's name, the name on
the application and on your test scores must be the same. If it is not, you
must contact us.

## Waivers

We offer waivers to those who:

  * Are citizens of any of the following countries—
    * Antigua and Barbuda
    * Australia
    * Bahamas
    * Barbados
    * Bermuda
    * Canada
    * Grenada
    * Guyana
    * Ireland
    * Jamaica
    * New Zealand
    * Saint Kitts and Nevis
    * Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
    * Singapore
    * Trinidad and Tobago
    * the United Kingdom

  * Have studied full-time for two years or more at a college or university
    where the sole language of instruction is English and in a country where
    English is the primary spoken language. The two years of study must be
    completed prior to the start of the program, **or**
  * Have earned an undergraduate degree at Duke Kunshan University (DKU),
    **or**

  * Have worked full-time for a minimum of two years in Australia, Canada, the
    United States, or the United Kingdom after receipt of undergraduate degree

**Waivers based on citizenship are automatic.**

If you believe you qualify for a waiver based on the **education** or **work**
criteria, indicate this and then answer the questions in the waiver section of
your online application that require you to **state where you completed the
study or work requirement**.

Due to the volume of applications we receive, we will not examine, confirm the
status of, or grant any waiver requests prior to extending an offer of
admission. If your request is not granted, we will notify you as soon as
possible to give you time to take the test. Therefore, it is in your best
interest to apply in the earliest round for each admission cycle.

## English Placement Exams

All international students may be required to take oral and written English
placement exams administered at Duke prior to the start of classes.

**These exams are independent of the score submission requirement.**

Depending on placement results, students are either exempt from, or placed
into, English course(s). Students with English course requirements must make
satisfactory progress toward completing these requirements while in the
program.

## Apply

  * How to Apply
  * Connect With Us
  * Visit Duke
  * Application Requirements
    * Uploading a Transcript
    * Grade Scale
    * Short Answer Essays
    * Resume
    * Recommendations
    * GRE Scores
    * English Language Testing
    * Application Fee
    * Interview/Video Introduction
    * Minimum Application Requirements
    * International Applicants
    * Deposit for Enrolling Students
    * Submitting Final Transcripts
  * Application Deadlines
  * Apply Online
  * Tuition and Financial Aid

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Contact Us

Have a question about the program or admissions? Contact the **Admissions &
Recruiting team** at pratt_masters@duke.edu.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __About
      *  __Is Duke Right for Me?
      *  __About the MEng Degree at Duke
      *  __Courses and Curriculum
      *  __Internship/Project
      *  __Career Services & Outcomes
      *  __Options for Current Duke Students
      *  __Non-Degree Candidates
    *  __Apply
      *  __How to Apply
      *  __Connect With Us
      *  __Visit Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
        *  __Uploading a Transcript
        *  __Grade Scale
        *  __Short Answer Essays
        *  __Resume
        *  __Recommendations
        *  __GRE Scores
        *  __English Language Testing
        *  __Application Fee
        *  __Interview/Video Introduction
        *  __Minimum Application Requirements
        *  __International Applicants
        *  __Deposit for Enrolling Students
        *  __Submitting Final Transcripts
      *  __Application Deadlines
      *  __Apply Online
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
  * __Quick Links
    * __Apply Online
    *  __Visit
    *  __Contact

    * 

