

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2018

# Mind the Gap: Connecting Clinicians and Engineers at Duke

June 11, 2018 | By Erik Anderson

Creating an environment where the clinical, engineering and business fields
can collaborate for further research and commercialization possibilities

Historically, there has been an immense divide between clinicians and
engineers. Failure to adequately communicate about clinical needs and
functional engineering requirements has slowed the development and
commercialization of medical technologies, resulting in patients not receiving
breakthrough medical treatments, which potentially worsens their outcomes.
Duke is looking to cross that chasm.

Through strong interdisciplinary facilitation, Duke's School of Medicine, the
Pratt School of Engineering, and the Duke Innovation & Entrepreneurship
Initiative are creating an environment at the university where the clinical,
engineering and business fields can collaborate for further research and
commercialization possibilities. Each group represents a unique phase of the
technology development and commercialization process, which allows for the
generation of interdepartmental competencies across the university.

## Ideation—Innovation & Entrepreneurship

How is a clinical need identified? Who do you design the solution for? What
are the unique features that the solution must contain? Before development of
a medical innovation can even be considered, these and similar questions need
to be thoroughly vetted and understood.

That is the goal of the Innovation and Entrepreneurship (I&E) course
Biodesign, taught by Professor Joe Knight. The course places value on the
direct observation of clinical interactions by design teams to search for
clinical gaps in the implementation of medical practice. Through the course,
students learn how to identify clinical needs, determine critical functional
requirements for the solution and generate value propositions to develop the
solution.

## Communication—MEDx

Bringing the correct functional groups together is critical to a medical
innovation's success, and MEDx is working to secure those relationships.
Founded in 2015, MEDx is an initiative through the Duke School of Medicine and
the Pratt School of Engineering with the goal of fueling medical and
engineering collaborations. By facilitating dialogue between the two groups,
MEDx hopes that partnerships can be established that would have otherwise been
missed, and new medical innovations can flourish as a result.

This year, MEDx has hosted a myriad of events helping to accomplish this goal.
For example, in October, MEDx hosted the Kaganov Symposium, an event to raise
awareness of the immense need for new solutions in the field of pulmonary
medicine and build collaborations amongst the research and clinical
communities. The symposium hosted experts across the fields of medicine and
engineering, including faculty from both the School of Medicine and the Pratt
School of Engineering, and some of the leading patient advocates in lung
disease. The winners of three new research grants to teams of engineers and
clinicians were also announced at the event. The symposium was one of the
first events of a recent $3 million gift from Alan and Carol Kaganov to
improve pulmonary disease outcomes by fostering new collaborations across
engineering and medicine at Duke.

MEDx has also sponsored numerous workshops and seminar series designed to
educate the Duke network, highlighting the research of fellow Duke labs,
teaching entrepreneurship and regulatory skills, and awarding recognition for
individuals who have served as examples for the benefits of the clinician-
engineer interaction.

## Development—Biomedical Engineering

Duke's Biomedical Engineering Department (BME) has been at the forefront of
medical innovations across the world for years; the department has continued
to adapt to the rapidly changing field through a variety of new course
offerings designed to create engineers who are not only technically sound, but
also clinically competent and business savvy.

Through BME's design course offerings, students are exposed to unique
applications of their engineering skillset that challenge their innovative and
technical abilities. Some of the options across both the undergraduate and
graduate design courses include Devices for People with Disabilities,
Biomedical and Clinical Design, Medical Device Design, and Intercontinental
Engineering Design.

Another interdisciplinary course new to the BME department this year is
Biomedical Product Development, taught by Peter Johnson, MD. Johnson, a
plastic surgeon by trade, has had years of experience as a CEO and investor in
several medical device companies.

> "The class was created to foster a diverse group of product development
> talents, while simultaneously weaving them together to form a whole."

"The class was created to foster a diverse group of product development
talents, while simultaneously weaving them together to form a whole," said
Johnson.

The course has no technical components, but rather teaches the students how to
start and run a medical device company. Teams, comprising students in
marketing, finance, R&D, regulatory, and others, fulfill the roles of each
functional group within a medical device company, with the class culminating
in a full application to the FDA for a medical device as the final project.
Johnson focuses heavily on the value of all three components—medicine,
engineering and business—in order to succeed in a medical device venture.
"Unmet clinical need is the number-one determining factor whether a medical
device will succeed," said Johnson. "And you have to get clinician feedback to
determine if this need is being met."

This idea of interdisciplinary education is being adapted through these course
designs to generate more well-rounded engineers who understand the
implications of their technologies outside of their traditional technical
roles.

Johnson commented on the necessity of this multidisciplinary interaction,
saying "Creating a medical product that is actually needed and simultaneously
profitable is like a five-tumbler lock. You may be able to get through four of
the tumblers, but if you can't get that last one, the door will not open."

**Erik Anderson is a master's student studying engineering management with a
focus in biomedical engineering.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2018

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

