Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# ‘More Possibilities Than There Are Particles in the Universe’

October 12, 2020 | Miranda Volborth

Duke Building a World-Class Team for the Quantum Computing Race

Jungsang Kim was a bit of an anomaly at Duke when he joined the faculty in
2004. Fresh out of the telecommunications industry, and with a PhD in physics
from Stanford, Kim soon filled his new Duke lab in electrical and computer
engineering with delicate, complex constructions marrying physics and
engineering: reconfigurable optical systems whose tiny mirrors—each about the
span of a single eyelash—were micro-machined from silicon and designed to work
in parallel to precisely steer beams of laser light.

The next year, Kim published a proposed optical approach to ion
trapping—holding a charged atom in place with electromagnetic fields and
manipulate them with laser light—and made it official: Duke had its first
quantum information lab.

## Duke's Quantum Leaps » Scroll to View

  * **2021** Duke Quantum Center will open its doors in downtown Durham, NC
  * **2020** IonQ debuts a 32-qubit quantum computer, the most powerful in the
    world to date
  * **2020** DoE awards $115 million to Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory for the
    Quantum Systems Accelerator, with $11 million to Duke to fabricate and use
    multiple generations of ion trap quantum computers
  * **2020** IonQ begins offering quantum computing services over the cloud
  * **2020** Monroe and UMD colleagues Marko Cetina and Crystal Noel accept
    positions at Duke
  * **2019** IonQ closes on $62 million in venture capital investments
  * **2018** National Quantum Initiative enacted
  * **2018** MURI awards a 5-year, $9 million grant to Duke to develop a
    “spectator qubit” that spies on the noise within a closed quantum system,
    allowing the other qubits to be more effectively controlled
  * **2018** Brown named director of the $18 million, NSF-funded STAQ program,
    a seven-site consortium of quantum theorists and experimentalists
  * **2018** Kenneth Brown joins Duke from Georgia Tech
  * **2018** Theoretical physicist Iman Marvian joins Duke
  * **2017** Startup company IonQ closes on $20M in venture capital
    investments
  * **2016** MURI awards a 5-year, $6.25 million grant led by Monroe, Kim, and
    Brown at UMD and Duke to investigate modular quantum computing
    architectures
  * **2016** IARPA awards a five-year, $32 million grant to a
    Duke/Maryland/Georgia Tech partnership, EURIQA, whose goal is to develop a
    quantum computer to demonstrate fault-tolerant implementation of quantum
    error correction
  * **2015** Kim and Monroe launch IonQ, a translational research endeavor
    aimed at bringing quantum computing technologies to market
  * **2010** IARPA awards a five-year, $15 million grant to a
    Duke/Maryland/Georgia Tech to implement the MUSIQC architecture
  * **2007** Monroe successfully teleports a single atom over 1 meter at the
    University of Maryland, using a technique that Kim and Monroe develop into
    a modular universal scalable ion trap quantum computer architecture
    (MUSIQC)
  * **2006** Kim co-founds optical sensing systems company AQT
  * **2004** Jungsang Kim joins Duke ECE, establishes the university's first
    quantum information lab

Kim was in the vanguard of the growing field of physicists and computer
architects dreaming of a quantum computer—a machine that in theory could
explore vast numbers of possible outcomes simultaneously, addressing problems
much too dense for even the best classical supercomputers to tackle. With a
functioning quantum computer, problems abandoned as intractable long ago, like
creating accurate models of weather systems or predicting the ebbs and flows
of financial markets, could be dusted off and brought back to the table.  
  
Kim’s single lab has now drawn an entire constellation of quantum computing
experts into its orbit at Duke. Among the first were quantum information
theorist Iman Marvian, a postdoc at MIT, and Kim’s long-distance collaborator
Kenneth Brown, a faculty member at Georgia Tech and an expert in quantum
control and error correction. Brown was initially skeptical about Duke’s
potential to build a quantum center.

“When I came from Georgia Tech to interview, Dean [Ravi] Bellamkonda suggested
there could be future growth in quantum information at Duke beyond hiring Iman
and me. This was promising, but I assumed he was just sweet-talking me,” said
Brown, who nonetheless accepted the offer. “I was wrong.”

With new support from the Duke Endowment to hire top-level new faculty in
science and technology, Kim and Brown have been empowered to recruit
outstanding colleagues at the forefront of quantum computing, including some
senior faculty and long-term collaborators.

“Word got out in the community that Duke was serious about quantum information
and willing to put in the resources,” said Brown.  
  
In the coming year, a trio of quantum information scientists and engineers
will further expand Duke’s quantum capabilities when they transition from the
University of Maryland: physicist Marko Cetina, quantum experimentalist
Crystal Noel, and Kim’s and Brown’s longtime collaborator and the architect of
the U.S. National Quantum Initiative, Chris Monroe.

Construction is currently underway on a 10,000-square foot expansion of Duke’s
existing quantum computing center in the Chesterfield Building, a former
cigarette factory in downtown Durham. The new space will house what is
envisioned to be a world-beating team of quantum computing scientists. The
DQC, Duke Quantum Center, is expected to be online in March 2021 and is one of
five new quantum research centers to be supported by a recently announced $115
million grant from the U.S. Department of Energy.

The center puts together under one roof the longstanding collaboration between
Kim, Monroe and Brown, who have attracted over $100 million of federal
research grants over the past dozen years while working at separate
institutions.

Iman Marvian, Jungsang Kim and Kenneth Brown in Kim's lab in The Chesterfield
building in downtown Durham

## Making Sense of Quantum

Duke’s growing quantum dream team has a bold goal: to launch a quantum
computing laboratory where staff and users co-develop bespoke algorithms to
solve the most complex optimization problems out there.

Creating a realistic virtual model of teleporting through a wormhole between
two black holes may not be an immediately marketable idea, but it sure is a
compelling one.

But before that happens, there’s work to be done in making over the public
perception of “quantum,” a word that has become synonymous with “too
complicated to comprehend.” (After all, if quantum physics admittedly
perplexed Albert Einstein, what chance do we mere mortals have of
understanding its principles?)

“One of the misperceptions of the field is that quantum physics is hard,” said
Monroe who will direct the new Duke Quantum Center.

That assumption, said Monroe, stems from a tenet unique to quantum computing,
called superposition. In classical computers, bits are binary. They are ones
or zeroes, yesses or nos. If you stack enough of these up, you get a streaming
movie or an Amazon recommendation based on your shopping habits. In trapped
ion quantum computers, like the ones that will anchor Duke’s new center, the
system’s bits are quantum bits, or qubits, that exist as a combination of both
0 and 1, yes and no, simultaneously. That’s superposition.

Superposition by itself is nothing new, as it is a standard property of the
waves that carry sound or light. But quantum superpositions become complex
with more qubits. Every time another qubit is added, there are twice as many
possibilities, leading to exponentially many configurations, all at the same
time.

But qubits only maintain superposition if they’re nearly perfectly isolated.
When you try to measure their value, they assign themselves a value at
random—for computing purposes, they can become worth even less than an
ordinary bit because they’re equivocal. A useful quantum computation cajoles
the qubits and their complex superpositions, without measuring them, to just a
few (or even one) possibility, and finally upon measurement, the answer can
depend on all those parts of the superposition.

Quantum physics is not difficult in the same sense as trying to model ocean
waves or other problems of incredibly complicated mathematics, according to
Monroe. It’s just strange that quantum measurement collapses the system — that
merely looking at something must affect it.

“Here’s the problem with quantum and why it has attracted so many
philosophers: We don’t experience this type of superposition of reality in
everyday life,” said Monroe. “We make sense of the world through analogy, and
there’s no real-world analogy to quantum physics.”

> “We make sense of the world through analogy, and there’s no real-world
> analogy to quantum physics.”
>
> **Chris Monroe**  
>  Director, Duke Quantum Center

The closest we can come, perhaps, is to imagine a coin spinning on a table. In
motion, it’s in something like superposition—both heads and tails. When we
interrupt its path, it lands on either heads or tails, becoming a simple bit.

A qubit has the added aspect of probability, Monroe said. A coin will land on
heads 50 percent of the time. But a qubit might at any given time be 50/50
heads and tails, or 90/10 heads and tails. When you consider an array of
qubits, the possible combinations suddenly become almost endless.

Probabilities are useful in many other contexts, such as estimating the stock
market or predicting the weather—but in these cases probabilities neatly
express our ignorance. In quantum physics this is not the case—we _must_ use
them, and that is weird. This is the point at which Einstein threw in the
towel on quantum mechanics, famously declaring, “God does not play dice.”

Though Einstein never embraced the field, a growing group of physicists and
engineers have brought these strange physical laws to computing, funded
aggressively by government agencies and private industry, because the promise
is so great. These temperamental collections of qubits and the fussy, super-
cold machines that handle them have the potential to solve intractable
computing challenges, like breaking “unbreakable” cryptography—the golden ring
some of these funding agencies have their eyes on.

## The Quest for the Golden Ring

The success of public-key encryption relies on how difficult it is to factor a
product of two large prime numbers. Your credit card information, for example,
can be encoded quite easily, but is nearly impossible to decode without having
the key—a designated set of factors—because a classical computer would have to
check an impossibly large number of possible solutions one at a time.

Everyone was feeling pretty good about this encryption technique until 1994,
when Peter Shor, now a math professor at MIT, theorized that large numbers
could be factored quite effectively with a quantum computer. It wouldn’t need
to check solutions one by one, like a classical computer—a quantum computer
could look at all the possible solutions at once, eventually converging on a
likely answer.

Shor’s new algorithm, of course, had people snapping to attention. Public-key
encryption was and still is used is to establish secure communications over
the internet, and trillions of dollars of commerce are exchanged every day
under its umbrella. There would be almost unimaginable national security
implications if previously unbreakable code was suddenly as useful as a VHS
tape or an overhead projector.

Governments and private companies started pumping money into the cybersecurity
problem more than 20 years ago, each determined to be the first to have the
quantum decryption technology in hand. Even if it would be decades away, it
was critically important to know when such code-breaking technology might be
available.

It was suddenly a race, and the collaborative work of Kim and Monroe set a
brisk pace. The two have been competing not only with other academic research
groups but also with large tech companies. In 2015, they co-founded their own
company, IonQ, which now offers quantum computing via Amazon Web Services for
a small class of commercial users. That computer is designed to run
autonomously and focus on high performance, unlike the more experimental,
highly reconfigurable machines they’re building in their academic labs.

On both fronts, they’re up against the biggest big-guys of corporate research.
IBM has long-standing quantum research initiatives, and Google and Microsoft
have been recruiting engineers and physicists from universities to assemble
their quantum teams.

The tech giants have approached the challenge by storing information in the
electrical states of circuits or superconducting currents. This circuitry can
be etched onto chips and manufactured, so it makes sense that industry
researchers would continue in the direction they already are traveling.

A few companies have so far successfully deployed small-scale quantum
computers in the cloud. But etched qubits are susceptible to manufacturing
defects, creating unreliable variability. This is no problem for conventional
computing, but intolerable for quantum computing.

The academic researchers at Duke are betting that their approach—qubits made
from individual atomic ions floating in a vacuum—will lead to the first
practical, scalable quantum computer. The trapped ions Duke researchers are
using are ytterbium atoms (a rare-earth element: atomic number 70, isotope
171) which Monroe deems perfect. “They’re a gift from Mother Nature. They’re
absolutely identical.”

To transform atoms into qubits, the scientists need only to strip them of one
electron, giving each a positive charge that allows it to be held in place
with an electromagnetic field. The trapped ions form an atomically-perfect
crystal, then specially-tuned lasers coax each into one of two electronic
energy levels, the 0 and 1. Subsequent laser pulses prepare the qubit
collection in an arbitrary superposition of their qubit values. In this way,
the atomic qubits become ‘entangled’ with each other, with the state of one
inevitably tied to the states of others. Quantum information can be encoded
not just onto the qubits themselves, but also into their entangled
correlations.

The qubit states are manipulated and interpreted with an array of precisely
calibrated lasers controlled by custom-made software. The qubits can thus be
written and read despite their complexity.

It’s a strange idea—like sending a letter via sunbeam or jotting down a note
on a storm cloud. “But not hard,” maintains Monroe. “Every single component of
our computers are actually fairly simple. I don’t feel like I have any special
knowledge in this field, other than sensing opportunity.”

Brown might disagree; he calls Monroe “the best ion trapper in the world.”
Brown himself is an expert in quantum error correction theory—spotting when a
qubit flips out of superposition to a mere 1 or a 0, and correcting it with a
magnetic pulse. He oversees a busy lab that creates myriad tools to make
quantum systems more robust, from the engineered systems themselves to the
software that controls them.

The emerging Duke Quantum Center’s team of varied specialties meshes like the
talents of a superhero squad.

Jungsang Kim is an expert in quantum optics, the pulsing, steering and
splitting of lasers that manage and measure spin states. Marko Cetina
specializes in ion traps and cold neutral atoms, a related quantum system with
great promise. And Crystal Noel, who has spent years working on trapped ion
systems, first at the University of California-Berkeley and then in Monroe’s
lab, will bring additional experience in dealing with noise processes in ion
traps that can cause quantum systems to fall apart.

All of this talent will translate to better integrated optical engineering,
better trap design and fabrication, more precise control systems, and wider
applicability of quantum computers.

As they learn how to assert tighter control over its system, the Duke team can
add more and more qubits, exponentially increasing computing power.

“Every time you add a qubit, you double your possible outcomes,” Monroe said.
“With 20 qubits there are a million possible outcomes. With 100 qubits, you
have more possibilities than there are bits in all the hard drives in the
world. With 300 qubits—that’s more possibilities than there are particles in
the universe.”

To be clear, ‘one-to-one problems,’ where every input results in a single
output, are best left to classical computers. “Quantum computers stink at
that,” said Monroe. “However, there are a whole class of problems that are not
one-to-one—like optimization problems or minimizing very complex functions.
Models of the stock market, for example, involve many indicators—what’s the
value of those indicators to maximize your portfolio or minimize your risk? We
tend to give up on these types of problems because they are too difficult.”

Weather prediction remains a lot harder than it looks because of the
complexity of the variables at work in the models. You’d essentially need to
treat countless cells in the atmosphere and their interactions with each other
to really nail it. That makes solving weather models an intriguing and highly
relevant application to explore. Simulating the behavior of complex molecules
is another, with potential applications in energy production and
pharmaceutical development. Predicting trends in the stock market and helping
us understand high-energy physical phenomena are all within the realm of
possibility.

A viable commercial quantum computer will probably come in around the
100-qubit mark, says Kim. Monroe said his lab has a pretty good lock on a
system that uses 20 qubits and has been playing around with a 50-qubit system
at Maryland. That system and the next generation will be at Duke in 2021, in
addition to smaller and better-engineered systems moving forward.

Monroe said these devices also reflect some of what IonQ has learned from
building a 32-qubit system, announced in October, that appears to be the most
powerful quantum computer in the world at the moment.

Despite their progress, the Duke team agrees that getting close enough to grab
the golden ring—breaking public-key cryptography—is still at least a decade
away.

Surface ion trap

## Discovering Quantum’s Superpowers

Monroe’s 20-qubit system, the Error-corrected Universal Reconfigurable Ion-
trap Quantum Archetype, or EURIQA, is the first generation of an evolving line
of quantum computers that will be available to users in Duke’s Scalable
Quantum Computing Laboratory, or SQLab. The machine was built with funding
from IARPA, the U.S. government’s Intelligence Advanced Research Projects
Activity. Once it’s reassembled and recalibrated in the Chesterfield Building
and everyone is in place, the SQLab intends to offer programmable,
reconfigurable quantum computing capability to engineers, physicists,
chemists, mathematicians or anyone who comes forward with a complex
optimization problem they’d like to try on a 20-qubit system.

Unlike the quantum systems accessible only in the cloud, the DQC computer will
be customized for each research problem, with open access to its guts—a more
academic approach to solving quantum riddles.

The DQA will join the STAQ-1 cryogenic ion trap system constructed by Kim and
Brown as part of the National Science Foundation funded Software-Tailored
Architectures for Quantum co-design (STAQ) project. Users are expected to come
from government agencies and private industry, but also from other
universities, where problems of interest may have huge academic impacts,
rather than solely commercial ones, such as modeling high-energy space
physics.

Brown says that as excited as he is about establishing a stable, open,
academic platform for computer architects and engineers to develop quantum
operating systems, he is equally jazzed to continue his own research on
quantum error correction codes and fault-tolerant quantum computing on a real
system. His enthusiasm is shared by colleagues at NC State University, UC
Santa Barbara, Georgia Tech, Chicago, Harvard, UC-Berkeley, and Princeton, who
have all reached out to DQC to start conversations about testing their own
ideas at the SQLab.

“I feel like we’re in the equivalent of the early days of traditional
computers. We’ve got the first machine, and we’re finding out what it can be
useful for,” Kim said. “Have you seen the movie _Hidden Figures_? The human
computers at NASA had to figure out how to map rocket trajectories onto
machine computers, and then those computers could do the calculations very
quickly. In all of these early-stage machines, people have to be creative
about how to map their problems onto machines to utilize the new
functionality.”

Once the utility of quantum computing is proven, Kim said, there will be even
more investment, enabling the next generation of machines to be better and
faster, and more useful. Gordon Moore’s Law states that though the speed and
capability of computers doubles every couple of years, consumers will pay half
as much for them because of high demand and increased production.

Kim said the rule should still apply to quantum computers. “There has to be a
first application that’s useful. It could have a very limited customer base,
but it has to solve an urgent need. And if it can do that, cost is not an
object.” The customer base grows, demand grows, the cycles of investment and
widening utility mushroom. “And soon,” Kim said, “you have more power in your
pocket than in the whole Apollo 13 mission.”

Read additional stories from this issue

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

