Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# On Security's Frontiers

October 12, 2020 | Miranda Volborth

Trapping bad actors, detecting fakes and ensuring trustworthiness: secure
computing is the goal of these Duke engineers

## John Board: Defending the Hive

It’s midday on a Monday, and there are around 100,000 devices active on Duke’s
network—laptops, phones and scientific instruments among them. They are
sending emails and experimental data, retrieving pay statements and accessing
documents —all the things the busy Duke community does daily, without really
thinking about the security implications of that networking.

Fortunately, the Duke Office of Institutional Technology, OIT, is constantly
monitoring all that activity, searching for suspicious activity that might
signal that an intruder has gained access to the information hive. Among its
security measures is an innovative NSF-funded program called STINGAR,
shorthand for “Shared Threat Intelligence for Network Gatekeeping and
Automated Response.” To foil bad actors, the OIT team first sets an
irresistible trap —a seemingly undefended trove of information, or “honeypot.”
STINGAR watches the trap and IDs the attackers that show up there, then
immediately locks them out to prevent them from gaining access to other Duke
properties.

Unless, that is, the OIT team decides instead to lure attackers over the
threshold and observe their behavior once they’re inside. “We learn about what
they do, what kinds of attacks they use and what IP they report back to, which
allows us to develop more elaborate defenses,” said STINGAR investigator John
Board, a professor of electrical and computer engineering and Duke
University’s associate chief information officer, a role he holds within OIT.
Board says that these intruders can be anyone—from individuals who purchase
hacker toolkits on the dark web, to nation-states interested in Duke’s
research.

John Board, Associate Professor, Duke ECE

In 2017, a group of five OIT leaders, including Duke’s Chief Information
Officer Tracy Futhey as well as Board, conceived of STINGAR following
conversations with other universities about perceived weaknesses in their
existing commercial cybersecurity tools. Later that year, a particularly
aggressive malware campaign showed Duke’s existing commercial security tools
blocking around 50 million malicious connection attempts every day; upon
switching to the first STINGAR prototype, Duke’s security team increased its
blocking capabilities to around 2 billion blocked connections per day. But
STINGAR wasn’t developed solely for Duke. From the beginning, it was developed
as a shared threat intelligence service, and is now deployed across a
consortium of more than 30 schools, ranging from small minority-serving
institutions and liberal arts colleges to major research universities.

Some consortium members, like Duke, have a highly capable team of dedicated
security personnel, but other have none; a condition of Board’s NSF grant is
that STINGAR is developed to be a deployable resource that even the most
sparsely resourced institutions can benefit from.

“From Day One our goal was to make STINGAR so easy to use that institutions
that have literally zero security personnel can use it. We make assumptions
about what is ‘easy,’ but our partnering schools have worked us with us to
make sure the products actually are easy to roll out,” said Board.

Duke is now exploring options to allow the STINGAR consortium to thrive and
grow beyond its current 30 member schools when the initial grant funding winds
down. Testing to date has validated the expectation that as each additional
school joins the group, the defenses of all schools in the program grow
stronger.

The confluence of IT and faculty research at Duke is unusual, and not limited
to STINGAR or even cybersecurity. “Duke is a very special place because our
faculty researchers truly welcome and support collaboration with OIT’s network
and system operators,” said Futhey. “At any given time, we probably have 8-10
personnel from OIT who are being partially funded by grants led by Duke
faculty.”

## NEIL GONG: KEEPING IT REAL

Once upon a time, we shook open the morning paper or tuned in to the evening
news to learn what was happening around the world, and by default believed
what we saw or read there.

Now we live in an era of disinformation. Many of us get our news from social
media, where it’s not always easy to discern between fact and opinion, or
between legitimate news and the fake stuff.

And Duke assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering Neil Gong
warns that “friends” on social media aren’t even necessarily trustworthy
sources—because in many cases they aren’t real people.

Gong partnered with Chinese social media giant WeChat for a project designed
to winnow out fake users on that platform, and he says that bogus accounts
make up a huge portion of its user base— they detected around 400K per million
new registered accounts each day and achieve a precision of over 96% on
average, a number verified by WeChat’s security team.

WeChat has over a billion monthly users, making it an enormous trove of user
data. And not all of those users are located in China—many people use the app
to connect with family and friends in China, or to conduct business there,
prompting concern from the U.S. government and others about how all of that
information is collected and stored. Because of the sheer size of its user
base, messages spread by multitudes of fake users can easily spread and be
amplified. “If software is managing millions of fake users and they’re all
saying the same thing, whatever fake thing they’re saying might start
trending,” said Gong. He warns that fake accounts can feed users
advertisements or even malware in addition to disinformation.

Neil Gong, Assistant Professor, Duke ECE

To identify the fakes, Gong developed a machine learning model to identify
patterns in a trove of user registration data supplied by WeChat, including IP
addresses and information about the type of device from which accounts were
registered. A legitimate user would most likely sign up for WeChat from a
mobile device, explained Gong, and they certainly wouldn’t sign up for a block
of several hundred accounts using the same IP address. Furthermore, WeChat
requires a phone number to verify new accounts, so if a single phone number is
used to verify many new accounts, it throws another red flag.

> "Whenever we apply machine learning to cybersecurity problems we have these
> kinds of games between the attacker and the defender."
>
> NEIL GOng, Asst. Prof., Duke ECE

“But let’s say we didn’t catch the fake accounts when they were registered,”
Gong said. “We can also look at behavior and content.” If a user is posting
every hour around the clock without ever taking time to sleep, for example,
it’s a clear indication that some sort of software is managing the account.
Or, what if a user associates only with other suspicious ones? “Guilt by
association,” pronounced Gong—an attacker probably created many accounts that
all follow each other to convey a sense of normalcy. Analyzing these “social
graphs” is an area of research that Gong is now delving into more deeply.

But attackers are refining their models as well.

“Think about this,” said Gong. “If attackers know we are using AI to detect
them, they can change their behavior, and change their social interactions.
Whenever we apply machine learning to cybersecurity problems we have these
kinds of games between the attacker and the defender. So our challenge now is
to build robust machine learning techniques that can detect fake users even if
the attacker changes tactics.”

## Krishnendu Chakrabarty and Helen Li: Trustworthy Computing

A lot of computing resources are spent running data from place to
place—storing results in memory, fetching that data to the processor to
perform calculations, then writing it back to memory. It costs a lot of energy
and a lot of time, especially with machine learning applications—in fact,
computer engineers refer to the resulting data bottlenecks as the “memory
wall.”  
  
“Deep neural networks have to be trained, and all the new data coming in has
to be classified. Those are the two main tasks, and they’re very computer-
intensive,” said Duke electrical and computer engineering professor Krishnendu
Chakrabarty. He and Duke ECE colleague professor Helen Li are partnering with
faculty at the Washington State University on an NSF-funded project to design
hardware that will help scale this wall. The project deals with processing in
memory, or PIM, using non-volatile ReRAM memory technology on crossbar arrays.

Chakrabarty describes the crossbar arrays as 2D matrices like tic-tac-toe
boards. Wherever the lines intersect, there is a resistive random-access
memory cell, or “ReRAM” cell, that can perform very efficient matrix
computations like those used to train machine learning models, make inferences
and store the resulting data even after the system powers down.

Their novel computer architectures will advance machine learning, but machine
learning is also being used to design the architectures; Chakrabarty and Li
apply the same techniques to determine what the optimal configuration of the
crossbar array might be—how large, which shape, and how many ReRAM cells will
be needed to accomplish a given task.

“In optimization you can weigh different parameters,” explained Chakrabarty.
“You can give more weight to speed, or more weight to efficient power use.”

Chakrabarty and Li envision building not just one architecture, but a family
of them—including one that is tailored for power-hungry edge computing and one
for high-performance computing tasks like tracking weather systems or real-
time stock trends, where speed takes priority.

Chakrabarty said that the average consumer might experience these types of
optimization strategies in the form of faster devices or longer battery lives.
“A self-driving car has been trained to recognize a catalogue of objects and
to take corresponding actions,” he said. “But now suppose there a march is
happening in the path of the car. The model isn’t trained for that—it’s an
exceptional event. You’d have to retrain the model. The work would be done in
the cloud and it might take an hour while you wait. But if you have training
on the edge, the cloud isn’t necessary. The model could retrain itself and
adjust on the fly, without utterly draining the battery.”

Krishnendu Chakrabarty, Professor, Duke ECE

Hai Li, Professor, Duke ECE

Chakrabarty noted that ReRAM crossbars fail easily, as most immature
technology will—so he and Li are building in fault tolerance with layers of
software and algorithms that “mask” failures in the memory. “In other words,
the system can detect faults and recover from them, and the users don’t see
abnormal operations,” said Li.

Li is also interested in quantifying the impact of faulty devices and
circuit‐level errors on overall system performance. “Using emulators, we can
inject manufacturing defects or circuit malfunctions, and then examine the
accuracy of our predictions by comparing them with system performance,”
explained Li.

> "The system can detect faults and recover from them, and the users don’t see
> abnormal operations."
>
> HAi li, Professor, Duke ECE

“We may be computing with unreliable components, but in the end the
computation is highly reliable,” said Chakrabarty. “Even if the components are
untrustworthy, you can trust the outcome.”

Chips, also, can fail for all kinds of reasons—they might overheat, the
devices and interconnects might age, have manufacturing defects, or even have
been deliberately sabotaged. DARPA’s Electronics Resurgence Initiative was
launched in 2017 with the goal of reshoring chip manufacturing operations to
the US, creating a more reliable and trustworthy supply chain while creating
economic impact from a new class of US-made 3D chips.

Demand for these new chips is expected to be huge.

Traditional silicon chips have become very fast indeed—but they’re not going
to get much faster due to the physical characteristics of the silicon itself.
Replacing the silicon component with carbon nanotubes and using 3D integration
of devices and interconnects, however, opens up new possibilities for
increased speed and efficiency. The nanotubes themselves act as
superconductive channels, letting electrons travel across the chip very
quickly, and the nanotubes are packed together tightly, making it possible for
each layer to be made extremely thin—just 100 nanometers tall. Logic layers,
processor layers and memory layers can then be stacked on top of each other
without taking up additional space. It’s like replacing a single slice of
plain bread with a juicy cheeseburger slider.

“We think about all the ‘what-ifs’ that could cause a 3D chip to fail—short
circuits, open circuits, defects in transistors and ReRAM cells, contamination
in the foundry,” said Chakrabarty. His ERI-funded collaboration with faculty
at Georgia Tech seeks to insert appropriate design-for-test mechanisms into
the new generation of chips, improving yield, system lifetime, and ensuring
that their performance can be counted on.

Read additional stories from this issue

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

