Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# Trapping and Twisting Light for Tomorrow’s Technologies

October 12, 2020 | Ken Kingery

Two metamaterials researchers at Duke are manipulating light at the highest
frequencies currently possible to enable applications such as precision
agriculture and high-bandwidth communications

The term “metamaterials” burst into the mainstream science news lexicon nearly
15 years ago when a Duke-led research team made the world’s first invisibility
cloak. Unable to help themselves from drawing parallels to Harry Potter and
Star Trek, the national media quickly caught onto the story and thrust the
emerging field into the limelight.

It didn’t matter that the prototype device looked more like a steering wheel
than a fashionable piece of clothing. It didn’t matter that it only worked in
two dimensions. It didn’t matter that it only worked for microwaves, which are
much larger and easier to control than visible light waves.  
  
A new field had been born.

Fast forward 15 years and Duke is now home to a burgeoning metamaterials group
dedicated to various niches within the field, all connected through the Center
for Metamaterials and Integrated Plasmonics.

And two of the group’s youngest members, Maiken Mikkelsen, the James N. and
Elizabeth H. Barton Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer
Engineering, and Natalia Litchinitser, professor of electrical and computer
engineering, are manipulating some of the smallest waves to tackle some of the
world’s biggest challenges from precision agriculture to breaking bandwidth
limits.

“I was working in Bell Laboratories on different types of photonic crystal
fibers for telecommunications when papers in this new field called
metamaterials started emerging,” said Litchinitser, referring to the early
papers that led to the microwave cloaking device media storm. “I was truly
fascinated by entirely new regimes of electromagnetic wave propagation in
these new engineered materials. I started looking into the theory of light-
matter interactions in metamaterials, first as a side research project, and
soon moved to the University of Michigan to pursue metamaterials research
fulltime.”

“I started my PhD spending years studying single electron spins confined in
nanostructures called quantum dots, which got me interested in controlling the
behavior of light by designing and fabricating tiny structures,” said
Mikkelsen. “I got deeply fascinated by how well-known materials behave in
previously unimaginable ways when we design their surroundings, and in
particular when we do this on a deeply subwavelength scale.”

Maiken Mikkelsen

Natalia Litchinitser

## Small Waves, Big Challenges

We rely on material properties every day. Styrofoam keeps coffee hot on the
morning commute. Copper carries electricity to a car’s spark plugs. These
properties arise due to the specific elements and arrangements of the atoms in
a material.

But structures can also give materials specific properties. A coil of copper
wire with a magnet rotating inside will create an electric current, whereas a
straight copper wire won’t. A smooth sheet of silver is reflective, while a
surface coated with tiny silver spheres is black.

The Greek preposition “meta” means “beyond,” so a metamaterial is a type of
material engineered to have properties beyond those provided by nature. But to
manipulate electromagnetic waves, these materials must have engineered
features that are smaller than the light’s wavelength.

It’s like looking at an image on a television screen. If each pixel was the
size of a human eye, everybody would come out looking like a Mario Brother.
But shrink them down by a factor of 10,000 to mere micrometers, and you can
recreate every line, wrinkle and pore on a movie star’s face.

In the invisibility cloak paper from 2006, researchers used microwaves because
they can have wavelengths nearly a foot long. This made it easier to fabricate
the individual pieces needed to control them on any benchtop.

Mikkelsen and Litchinitser, however, are working with waves from the infrared
to the visible spectrum, which can be only hundreds of nanometers long. While
the two are taking different approaches to fabricating the miniscule features
needed to work in this realm, their results are equally impressive.

The Greek preposition “meta” means “beyond,” so a metamaterial is a type of
material engineered to have properties beyond those provided by nature.

## Trapping Light for Precision Agriculture

Mikkelsen’s primary approach to fabricating structures small enough to
manipulate infrared and optical waves boils down to two structures—sandwiches
and nanocubes.

“One of my primary lines of research is investigating how we can control light
on small dimensions and, in particular, how we can create ‘hot-spots’ where
the incoming light is squeezed into small volumes,” said Mikkelsen. “One very
effective way of doing that is by creating a sandwich structure consisting of
a thin, insulating layer in between nanocubes and a metal film.”

The setup Mikkelsen is describing essentially uses nanoscale electromagnetic
phenomena to “trap” light onto the surface of a metal nanocube in a form known
as a plasmon. This is accomplished by fashioning silver cubes just a hundred
nanometers wide and placing them only a few nanometers above a thin gold foil.
When incoming light strikes the surface of a nanocube, it excites the silver's
electrons, trapping the light's energy—but only at a certain frequency.

The size of the silver nanocubes and their distance from the base layer of
gold determines that frequency, while controlling the spacing between the
nanoparticles allows tuning the strength of the absorption.

By precisely tailoring these spacings, researchers can make the system absorb
or emit any frequency of light they want.

“It is challenging to experimentally realize control of critical dimensions
below 10 nanometers in a reproducible fashion,” said Mikkelsen. “Our next
challenge is then to demonstrate that the phenomena we observe in such
structures can actually be used in real devices.”

One such potential device Mikkelsen is pursuing is a compact, lightweight
hyperspectral camera for precision agriculture. With the support of a Moore
Inventor Fellowship, Mikkelsen is creating cameras with “superpixels” that
consist of multiple smaller pixels, each tuned to absorb a different frequency
of light.

Such cameras can indicate the type of plant in a field and its
condition—whether it needs water, is stressed or has low nitrogen content.
This information could enable precision agriculture, allowing fertilizer,
pesticides, herbicides and water to be applied only where needed, potentially
reducing pollution while saving water and money.

Imagine a hyperspectral camera mounted on a helicopter or drone mapping a
field’s condition and transmitting that information to a tractor designed to
deliver fertilizer or pesticides at variable rates across the fields. And
because the approach could be implemented on a single chip, snap a
multispectral image in a few trillionths of a second, and be produced and sold
for just tens of dollars, Mikkelsen has lofty ambitions for her work.

> “Imagine the impact not only in the United States, but also in low- and
> middle-income countries where there are often shortages of fertilizer,
> pesticides and water. By knowing where to apply those sparse resources, we
> could increase crop yield significantly and help reduce starvation.”
>
> Maiken mikkelsen, Associate Professor, Duke ECE

A new type of lightweight, inexpensive hyperspectral camera could enable
precision agriculture. Different pixels can be tuned to specific frequencies
of light that indicate the various needs of a crop field. By Maiken Mikkelsen
and Jon Stewart

## TWISTING LIGHT TO BREAK BANDWIDTH BOTTLENECKS

Rather than building up metamaterials through thin-film sandwiches and
precisely tailored nanocubes, Litchinitser typically takes various
nanofabrication approaches to manufacturing her metamaterials.

In the 2006 invisibility cloak paper, the metamaterial was created through
grids of box-shaped cells with rings of copper wire embedded within each.
While the details of Litchinitser’s metamaterials are much smaller—too small
to even see with the naked eye—they also use repeating shapes and patterns to
accomplish their goals.

Etching patterns out of various substrates at the scales required to
manipulate visible light is extremely difficult. Even the process typically
used in manufacturing computer chips is not precise enough.

“Sometimes we’ll use photolithography as a preliminary process but not as the
primary tool,” said Litchinitser. “We often use electron beam lithography. But
some jobs call for focused ion beam lithography machines.”

In one of her primary lines of research, Litchinitser is working to
dynamically switch the structure of a beam of light from a simple circular
beam resembling water flowing through a tube to a vortex that looks more like
water going down a drain or a tornado.

As computers get more powerful and connected, their hunger for data is
constantly demanding more from the technologies used to transmit it.

Light-based optical fiber internet services from providers such as Google and
AT&T are already replacing slower, outdated technologies based on electrons
such as cable and DSL.

Much of the difference in bandwidth, however, does not come from light’s
ability to outrace electricity. Instead it comes from “multiplexing”
techniques—the ability to encode data into multiple aspects of a light wave,
such as its amplitude, wavelength and polarization. But the aspects that
scientists are able to control are beginning to run out, as is the amount of
room left to store data in the conventional properties of light.

Litchinitser recently devised a metamaterial filter that enabled a vortex
laser to be dynamically tuned to these five different orbital angular momentum
modes or shapes

To break through this barrier, engineers are exploring some of light’s harder-
to-control properties, such as its orbital angular momentum (OAM). The results
can be imagined as a swirling vortex of light.

Tunable topological charge vortex microlaser developed by Litchinitser and the
University of Pennsylvania's Liang Feng

“I explain OAM to my classes by thinking about planets,” said Litchinitser.
“Imagine a particle trapped by an optical beam with both spin and orbital
momentum. Spin angular momentum makes a particle spinning on its axis like the
Earth, which gives us night and day. At the same time, the particle rotates
around the axis of the beam like the Earth rotates around the moving sun.”

The first ultracompact “vortex” laser source was demonstrated in 2016 by
Litchinitser and Liang Feng, associate professor of materials science and
engineering and electrical and systems engineering at the University of
Pennsylvania, while the two were both still at the University at Buffalo.
Until recently, however, the technology lacked the ability to switch between
multiple different vortex modes, making it impossible to multiplex with them.

In a recent paper, however, Feng discovered a method to switch between three
different orbital angular momentum (OAM) modes. Litchinitser devised a
metamaterial filter that enabled further dynamical tunability of this
microlaser, allowing it to demonstrate at least five different OAM modes. This
new integrated optical source is likely to help optical communications devices
carry five times as much data, or even more if the researchers can create
versions of the technology with additional modes.

The ability to dynamically tune OAM values could also enable a photonic update
to a classic encryption technique: frequency hopping. By rapidly switching
between OAM modes in a pre-defined sequence known only to the sender and
receiver, optical communications could be made impossible to intercept.

The sky is the limit for the improvements a dynamically tunable vortex laser
could provide fields ranging from communications to computing. And
Litchinitser is excited about pursuing them with her colleagues—just as long
as the media doesn’t mistake the technology for a magic wand.

Read additional stories from this issue

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

