

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Alumni & Giving

# Alumni

## Stay in Touch

### Address Changes

Three ways to send us your address changes:

#### Post

Alumni Records  
Box 90581  
Durham, NC 27708

#### Email

bluedevil@duke.edu

#### Online

Log onto the Pratt page at alumni.duke.edu

### Connect With Other Alumni

Use the group members and search functions on **alumni.duke.edu** to find Duke
Engineering alumni and friends worldwide.

GO TO ALUMNI.DUKE.EDU

### Give to the Annual Fund

Gifts to the Annual Fund are unrestricted—providing for need-based financial
aid, hands-on learning, a world-class faculty, and much more!

Give Today

### Submit a Nomination for an Engineering Alumni Award

Do you know someone who is distinguished within their field, a young alumna/us
who is doing great things, or someone who has served the Pratt School of
Engineering immensely over their lifetime? We need to know about them!
_Nominations are due January 1 annually._

Make a Nomination

### Join the Duke Engineering Alumni Association

Members of the Engineering Alumni Association (EAC) support student projects,
recognize outstanding alumni and facilitate continuing engagement of alumni
with the school.

**To become a member** , please contact Kim Davis at 919-660-5385 or
kim.davis@duke.edu

MOre about the EAC

## Engage with Students

### Be a Mentor

Join our **Vertical Mentoring Network** —be paired with a student or students,
and share your insights on careers and life after graduation.

more about mentoring

Become a Mentor

### Be a Technical Advisor

Student project board members and technical advisors assist student teams with
engineering questions, and help connect them with outside resources. Browse a
list of Duke Engineering student groups.

Be a Technical Advisor

### Advise a Bass Connections Project

Provide technical advice to a Bass Connections interdisciplinary research
project team!

Advisors assist teams with technical engineering questions and help connect
them with other resources.

Advise a Bass Connections Project

### Give a Tech Talk or Guest Lecture

Share your expertise with students through a tech talk, guest lecture or panel
discussion.

Give A Talk

Have a question? Contact Kirsten Shaw »

### Provide an Internship Opportunity

Recruiting engineering interns or establishing a new internship program builds
your organization's brand recognition at Duke Engineering.

To learn more, contact Kirsten Shaw »

Contact Us

### Submit a Student Design Project Idea

Hands-on design is a pillar of Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate
experience. Alumni are invited to propose design challenges for student design
courses, and to serve as mentors to students working on solutions to design
challenges.

Projects can be based on personal or work experience, or be an actual design
problem faced by a nonprofit community partner.

Contact Pam Hanson with your idea

## Volunteer

### Plan Engineering Alumni Events in Your Region

Duke has established regional alumni boards in a number of large geographic
regions.

**In the Triangle NC region** , contact Bob Wescott for additional info on the
Triangle Area Pratt Alumni group.

**In other regions,** visit the Duke Alumni website to find your regional
alumni group.

If you're interested in assisting to plan and execute events of interest to
engineering alumni in your region, volunteer to participate with your regional
Duke Alumni board. _Note that nominations are usually due in January, but you
can contact your regional board leadership at any time to find opportunities
to get engaged._

### Serve on the Engineering Alumni Council

EAC members work to develop strategies and programs to engage Pratt Alumni and
serve as ambassadors of our great school. Are you, or do you know, a
passionate engineering alum? _Please submit your nominations by December 1._

More about the EAC »

Submit a nomination

### Be a Class Agent

Class Agents serve as liaisons between alumni and Duke Engineering.

**To become a class agent** , please contact Pamela Hanson at 919-660-5130 or
pamela.hanson@duke.edu

Contact Us

### Be an Engineering Ambassador

Duke Engineering Ambassadors are part of a select group of friends and alumni
of the school who receive media articles, news announcements or student
stories from the dean, take advantage of opportunities to tell others how Duke
Engineering is doing, and share their thoughts on the school with the dean.

**To volunteer or nominate someone** , please contact Pamela Hanson at
919-660-5130 or pamela.hanson@duke.edu

CONTACT US

## Alumni

  * Engineering Alumni Council
  * Distinguished Alumni Awards
  * Alumni-Student Mentoring
  * Student Group Funding

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

