

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Alumni & Giving

# Giving to Duke Engineering

Your gift to the Duke University Pratt School of Engineering goes directly to
advancing our missions of excellence in engineering education, discovery and
service—and to building for our future.

Give Today

## Email Newsletter

Read _Advancing Duke Engineering_ , our twice-yearly newsletter for
supporters.

## Giving Opportunities

### Annual Fund

Gifts to the Engineering Annual Fund are unrestricted, and pay for need-based
financial aid grants to enroll the brightest students, programs that encourage
students to apply classroom learning to real-world problems, a world-class
faculty committed to student mentoring and groundbreaking research, and much
more!

The sense of community among Duke Engineers runs deep. Generations of alumni,
parents, students, faculty, staff, and friends have helped make the success of
the Engineering Annual Fund possible through generous contributions and
participation.

Why I give to the Engineering Annual Fund »

Give Today »

### Pratt Parent Circle

The Pratt Parent Circle is a giving club for our most involved non-alumni
parents.

How to join »

### Major Gifts

A major gift is lasting, providing support in perpetuity. A major gift is
transformative, providing needed scholarships or taking a program to a new
level.

Learn more about major gifts, such as scholarships and fellowships,
professorships and program support »

### Corporations and Foundations

Corporate and Industry Relations within the Pratt School of Engineering
connects foundations, businesses, and industry with Duke Engineering.

Corporate partners and prospective partners can learn about the variety of
opportunities available by speaking with our Corporate and Industry Relations
office. Learn more » **  
**

### Other Ways to Give

At **giving.duke.edu** , find detailed information about giving:

  * Stocks, bonds and mutual funds
  * Matching gifts
  * Personal property
  * Real estate
  * Deferred or planned gifts
  * Life income gifts
  * Charitable lead trusts
  * Bequests
  * Gifts of retirement plans
  * Retained life estate in property

## Alumni & Giving News

March 09, 2023 | Duke Translation & Commercialization

### Isolere Bio: Inside the Journey of a Duke Biotech Startup

February 20, 2023

### Duke Engineering: Then & Now

February 17, 2023 | Duke Innovation & Entrepreneurship

### Five Questions With Hannah Wilen '20, Co-Founder of Capd Period

View all alumni & giving news

## Giving

  * Annual Fund
  * Pratt Parent Circle
  * Major Gifts
  * Major Gift Donors

## Why I Give

“I’m grateful for the foundational life experience Duke provided me, but also
thrilled and inspired by Pratt’s focus on training engineering undergrads to
be dynamic leaders in our increasingly multidisciplinary world. My
appreciation for Duke grows stronger each year, as does my desire to
contribute to and participate in its continued growth and success."

Ram Jagannath BSE'98

* * *

“I give to the Engineering Annual Fund to help students who may not have the
financial means to attend Duke University. I want them to have the same
opportunity that I had to live out my dreams of attending Duke and graduating
with a degree in biomedical engineering.”

Stephanie Gloster BSE'96

* * *

Why We give

## Building for the Future of Duke

Opened for classes in January 2021, the Wilkinson Building is a transformative
space to advance engineering education and research at Duke.

Explore giving opportunities

Solutions to the world’s greatest challenges are waiting to be discovered.
Learn how you can join Duke in investing in science and technology to benefit
people and the planet »

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

