

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Alumni & Giving

# Duke Engineering: A History

From its beginnings more than 75 years ago, Duke's Pratt School of Engineering
has grown into one of the fastest-rising in the nation

On June 3, 1939, the Duke University Board of Trustees approved the creation
of the College of Engineering—establishing the school as a cornerstone of the
young university.

From its beginnings as an undergraduate college with just three faculty
members in each department and only 201 students, the School of Engineering
has grown into one of the nation’s fastest-rising engineering programs, with
nearly 3,000 faculty, staff, and students, 15,000 accomplished alumni, a
vibrant research engine and a record of trailblazing achievements that benefit
people all over the world.

View a text version of this timeline.

## A Brief History of Engineering at Duke

The Pratt School of Engineering traces its history back to 1851 when Normal
College, a forerunner of Duke University, advertised a Classical course which
included engineering for seniors. Normal College became Trinity College in
1859, and engineering was introduced in 1887. The first student to graduate
with an engineering degree was C.E.D. Egerton in 1903.

When Trinity became Duke University in 1924, engineering underwent vigorous
development. In 1927, engineering was organized into separate departments of
civil and electrical engineering. The Department of Mechanical Engineering
started in 1931.

Growth in engineering at Duke in the 1930s closely paralleled the larger
departments in arts and sciences. In 1930, there were four faculty members;
and in 1938, there were nine. By 1930, 101 students were studying engineering.
When Duke established the Division of Engineering in 1937, there were 167
students.

## A College Is Born

Following a study that concluded further advancement of engineering was
justified, Duke's Board of Trustees authorized the formation of the College of
Engineering in 1939. William H. Hall, who joined the Trinity faculty in 1915
to teach civil engineering, was named the first dean of the new college.

With engineering alumni active and organized from 1937 onward and with a
student body that had grown to 201 in 1939, the college was on its way.
Students in each department competed to show off the latest technological
marvels, such as the electrical engineers' display of a newfangled telephone-
television booth.

By 1937, engineering at Duke had 30,000 square feet of space on East Campus,
six times what it had a decade earlier. Engineers were the only men living on
East Campus until they moved westward after World War II to join the students
of Trinity College of Arts and Sciences.

## The Postwar Years

Engineering at Duke grew quickly during World War II in response to a national
shortage of engineers. The first women graduated from the College of
Engineering in 1946, and all three engineering departments moved to West
Campus in 1947 to a new building that became known as “Old Red” (now named
Hudson Hall).

In 1951, the university created the Research and Development Program for
Engineering, which eventually led to a graduate program and was the foundation
for what would become a major national engineering research effort. The R&D
program was led by Walter J. Seeley, who came to Duke in 1925 to teach
electrical engineering. He became dean in 1953.

## The Changing '60s

The doctor of philosophy degree was offered in electrical engineering in 1960,
followed by a Ph.D. in civil engineering four years later.

James L. Meriam, a professor of mechanical engineering at the University of
California, Berkeley, was appointed dean in 1963. The college was named the
School of Engineering in 1966 and the school's first black students graduated
two years later.

The Division of Biomedical Engineering was established in 1967 and in 1971 it
became a department--the first ever at a United States university.

George Pearsall was named dean in 1969 and three years later the Engineering
Annex to Hudson Hall opened. In 1974, Aleksander S. Vesic, who joined Duke as
a professor of civil engineering 10 years earlier, was appointed dean. After
Vesic died in 1982, Pearsall stepped in as interim dean until Earl H. Dowell
moved to Duke from Princeton to become dean in 1983.

## A 21st-Century Foundation

The Nello Teer Library Building opened in 1984. Three years later, the Center
for Emerging Cardiovascular Technology at Duke becomes the first National
Science Foundation Engineering Research Center (ERC) focused on biomedical
research. In 1992, the Hudson Center for Engineering Education opened,
followed in 1994 by the Levine Science Research Center, which provided
additional space for growing school. In 1997, the Master of Engineering
Management Program was established.

Kristina M. Johnson joined Duke as engineering dean in 1999. Later that year
the school was named for 1947 electrical engineering graduate and
philanthropist Edmund T. Pratt Jr., who endowed the school with $35 million.
It was at the time the second-largest gift in the university’s history,
surpassed only by the original gift from James B. Duke to transform Trinity
College into Duke University.

The Fitzpatrick Center for Photonics and Communications Systems was
established in 2000. Teaching and research space doubled with the 2004 opening
of the 322,000-square-foot Fitzpatrick Center for Interdisciplinary
Engineering, Medicine and Applied Sciences (FCIEMAS).

In recent years the school has dramatically grown its external research
funding and major nationally-awarded research centers, its faculty size and
prominence, and its student body and selectivity, making Pratt the fastest-
rising engineering school in the country in terms of national rankings.

## Our History

  * Timeline
  * Commemorative Book

### Duke Engineering Through the Years

Take an online view of our 52-page commemorative book, produced in celebration
of Duke Engineering's 75th anniversary.

### Timeline – Text Version

Browse more than 75 years of Duke Engineering history.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

