

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Alumni & Giving

# Development, Alumni Affairs & Corporate Relations Team

## Jim Ruth '01

Associate Dean and Director of Development

james.ruth@duke.edu

Jim graduated as a mechanical engineer from the Pratt School of Engineering in
2001, and loved Duke Engineering so much he returned to Pratt. Jim focuses his
time on strategic direction for the development team and works closely with
the dean and faculty leaders across the school on key initiatives. He traveled
extensively in his previous major gift role for Pratt and now manages
principal gift efforts and major gift activity in Southern California.

## Robert "Judge" Carr '71

Senior Associate Dean for Development and Alumni Affairs

judge.carr@duke.edu

A 1971 Duke civil engineering graduate, Judge is an institution in and of
himself on the Duke Engineering development team. His commitment to
personalized attention for all those who have given back to the school and his
knowledge of the broad Pratt alumni base has been the driving success behind
Pratt’s fundraising efforts for decades. Judge is primarily responsible for
driving ambition and success in the Annual Fund as well as principal and major
gift fundraising rooted in relationships with alumni that cross generations.

## Malinda Whitson

Senior Director of Major Gifts

malinda.whitson@duke.edu

Malinda joined the Duke Engineering development team in September 2017 after
nearly 10 years as the senior regional development director for Duke in the
Bay Area of California. Malinda was inspired to join Pratt by seeing all the
impactful and inspiring research being done by Pratt faculty and the profound
ability of Pratt students to impact society in meaningful ways. Malinda
travels extensively and supports major gift activities across the country with
focuses on San Francisco, Seattle, Boston, Atlanta, and Washington.

## J. Philip Duhart

Associate Director of Major Gifts

philip.duhart@duke.edu

Philip arrived at Duke Engineering in June 2019. He had previously worked in
various roles around the Duke campus since 2006, ranging from working and
living in the residence halls, to developing campus leadership programs, to
re-engaging alumni in the philanthropic life of the university. He’s excited
about the opportunity to utilize these experiences in support of Pratt’s
strategic vision. Philip travels in support of major gift activities in New
York, Chicago, Texas, Philadelphia, North Carolina and Colorado.

## Kirsten Shaw

Director of Corporate Relations

kirsten.shaw@duke.edu

Kirsten coordinates industry relations, with a focus on student internships
and faculty connections. The success of our TechConnect and StartupConnect
events are largely attributable to her great work. She is always available to
help support any corporate or industry relations questions for both faculty
and students at Pratt.

## Jonathan Owens

Director of Business Development and Industry Partnerships

jonathan.owens@duke.edu

Jonathan joined our team in summer 2022. His focus is on expanding authentic
and beneficial external relationships between Duke Engineering and partners in
the public and private sectors.

## Pamela Hanson

Director, Annual Fund

pamela.hanson@duke.edu

Pam knows everyone and everything in development. She leads Pratt’s efforts in
the Annual Fund but also plays a lead role in donor stewardship and
advancement services and leads the Engineering Alumni Council. Her warmth and
energy help define the Duke Engineering development team.

## Kimberly Davis

Project Coordinator

kim.davis@duke.edu

Kim’s official role is to support efforts to sustain and grow the success of
the Annual Fund, and she plays a key role in supporting the Engineering Alumni
Council and Board of Visitors. Her unofficial role is to keep Judge, Jim, and
Pam on task and in line.

## Tarina Argese

Development Assistant

tarina.argese@duke.edu

Tarina joined the team in spring 2022. She is a former public-school teacher
with experience in New York and North Carolina. At Duke, she provides support
to three development directors and works cooperatively with the entire
Development & Alumni Affairs Team.

## Contact Us

### Development, Alumni Affairs & Corporate Relations

311 Teer Engineering Building  
Box 90271  
Durham, NC USA 27708-0271

Phone: +1 919-660-5671

## Building for the Future of Duke

Opened for classes in January 2021, the Wilkinson Building is a transformative
space to advance engineering education and research at Duke.

Explore giving opportunities

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

