Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Graduation with Departmental Distinction

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Undergraduate
  3. Students

Students wishing to satisfy the requirements for Graduation with Departmental
Distinction (GWDD) in Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science must
satisfy the following requirements. Students are encouraged to pursue both
Graduate with Distinction and participate in the Pratt Undergraduate Research
Fellows program.

## Requirements

  * Maintain a minimum Duke QPR of 3.5
  * Complete an Independent study course (note, Pratt Fellows requirements can
    be satisfied concurrently.)
  * Complete a 500-level technical course in engineering, science, or
    mathematics
  * Present a 15-minute oral reports at mid-semester, and a 30-minute final
    project oral report.
  * Prepare a written report describing the project.
  * The project supervision and the course grade are the responsibility of the
    faculty supervisor. The grade for the ME 492(198) project does not depend
    on approval for GWDD.

The project supervision and the course grade are the responsibility of the
faculty supervisor. The grade for the ME 198 project does not depend on
approval for GWDD. Conferring of the honor Graduation with Distinction will be
made by the whole faculty upon recommendation of the GWDD committee.

There will be a meeting during the first week of classes each semester for the
students and their advisors. During this meeting, the schedule for oral
presentations and deadline for written reports will be given to the students
and their advisors. Any questions regarding exceptional circumstances should
be raised at that time, or earlier.

## Independent Study Courses

The independent study phase (project) is satisfied with a minimum one course
registration in ME 491(197) or 492(198) (for Pratt Fellows, course numbers are
ME 394(172), ME 493(173), ME 494(174). The approval form should be completed
and submitted to the Director of Undergraduate Studies at the time of pre-
registration for the appropriate semester. These forms are available in the
MEMS Departmental Office (Room 144). Except in truly exceptional
circumstances, only independent project work performed at Duke University will
be accepted for GWDD (no transfer credit). Projects that are part of a larger
group effort will require special permission of the GWDD Committee, in
particular, the student and his advisor will be asked to address the issue of
independence.

### Oral and Written Reports

A student enrolled in the special projects course must give a 15-minute oral
progress report to the GWDD committee at mid-semester, for each semester that
the student is participating in the project. The first of these reports
constitutes the qualifying presentation, at which time the Committee will
approve the scope of the project and make recommendations if needed to revise
the scope in accordance with the expectations of a GWDD project. At the end of
each semester, an additional oral progress report will be made. If the student
is continuing with the project for an additional semester, progress-to-date
will be reported. If the student is terminating his or her work on the
project, a 30-minute final oral report will be made. In addition to the oral
presentations, a final written report is required. The written report should
describe the student's efforts and the important results of the project. Note
that the written report must satisfy a specific set of guidelines that are
given to each student well in advance.

### 500-Level Technical Course

Any student wishing to obtain Graduation with Distinction must also
successfully complete a 500-level technical course in Engineering, Science, or
Mathematics. If possible, the course should be on a subject relevant to the
independent study component. The 500-level course may be taken prior to,
concurrent with, or subsequent to the project. Except under unusual
circumstances, the course may not be an independent study taken concurrently
with the GWDD project. If the 500-level course is a 490(264) numbered course
(i.e., Special Topics), then the course must be approved by the GWDD committee
in order for it to fulfill this requirement.

## Undergraduate Contacts

### Donald Bliss

Associate Professor and Director of Undergraduate Studies

__919-660-5315

__donald.bliss@duke.edu

### Nico Hotz

Associate Professor of the Practice and Associate Director of Undergraduate
Studies

__919-660-5118

__nico.hotz@duke.edu

### Amy Spaulding

Director of Undergraduate Studies Assistant

__919-660-5310

__amy.spaulding@duke.edu

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

