Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Duke MEMS Independent Study for Undergraduates

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Undergraduate
  3. Students

## Independent Study

Undergraduate students can conduct intensive, hands-on research for academic
credit by taking independent study courses. Independent study can qualify you
for Graduation with Departmental Distinction.

With some planning, these courses can be a part of several of our signature
research programs described below.

## Independent Study + Research Programs

There are several programs within Pratt that give undergrads research
opportunities while earning credit. Each program offers distinct opportunity

  * Pratt Undergraduate Research Fellows \- Three semesters of independent
    study, plus summer research.
  * Grand Challenge Scholars Program \- Flexible curriculum focused on a
    societal grand challenge. Includes research, courses outside of
    engineering, and training/experience in entrepreneurship, and both a
    global and service learning component.
  * Duke Smart Home Fellows \- One or more semester of independent study
    focused on smart technology and/or sustainable living.

## Independent Study + You Pick the Faculty

If you decide not to pursue one of the research programs above--or just want
more flexibility for your independent study--explore the research interests of
Pratt's engineering faculty. With the right match of interests, you can work
with faculty from any department--not just faculty from your department/major.

  * The Pratt Experts List \- This list of research areas gives you
    corresponding faculty information.
  * Biomedical Engineering Faculty \- Listing of BME faculty, including those
    with appointments in the Duke School of Medicine
  * Civil and Environmental Engineering Faculty \- Listing of CEE faculty,
    including those with joint appointments with the Nicholas School for the
    Environment and Earth Sciences
  * Electrical and Computer Engineering Faculty \- Listing of ECE faculty
  * Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science Faculty \- Listing of MEMS
    faculty

Or you can look at campus-wide research, internship or job opportunities.
DukeList includes listings of on-campus research (paid and unpaid) and
leadership opportunities for students, as well as on-campus jobs.

## Apply for Independent Study

In order to enroll in an independent study students should work with their
self-identified faculty supervisor and the Director of Undergraduate Studies,
preferably before the end of registration for the subsequent semester.

## MEMS Independent Study Courses

**ME 394(172)/493(173)/494(174). Engineering Undergraduate Fellows Projects.**
Intensive research project in Mechanical Engineering by students selected as
Engineering Undergraduate Fellows. Consent required. Instructor: Staff. One
course.

**OR**

**For Sophomores: EGR Independent Study Courses.  
**

**For Juniors:** **ME 391(187)/392(188). Undergraduate Projects in Mechanical
Engineering.** Individual projects arranged in consultation with a faculty
member. Open to students who show special aptitude for research and design.
Taught in the Fall. Consent of director of undergraduate studies. Instructor:
Staff. Variable credit.

**For Seniors: ME 491(197)/492(198). Special Projects in Mechanical
Engineering.** Individual projects arranged in consultation with a faculty
member. Open only to seniors enrolled in the graduation with distinction
program or showing special aptitude for research. Half course to two courses.
To be taught in the Fall. Prerequisites: B average and consent of the director
of undergraduate studies. Instructor: Staff. Variable credit.

## Undergraduate Contacts

### Donald Bliss

Associate Professor and Director of Undergraduate Studies

__919-660-5315

__donald.bliss@duke.edu

### Nico Hotz

Associate Professor of the Practice and Associate Director of Undergraduate
Studies

__919-660-5118

__nico.hotz@duke.edu

### Amy Spaulding

Director of Undergraduate Studies Assistant

__919-660-5310

__amy.spaulding@duke.edu

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

