Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Duke MEMS Senior Design

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Undergraduate
  3. Students

Senior projects focus on the synthesis and application of the basic science,
mathematics, engineering and design skills taught in earlier courses. It also
provides students opportunities to exercise and apply the more advanced
material taught in their senior year. Called "Capstone" courses, these
culminating design classes give students a rigorously challenging, real-world
immersive engineering experience.

Students are guided through the various stages of a professional engineering
design project, including the design, fabrication and experimental testing of
a complex component or system. Faculty members mentor, consult and evaluate,
and provide workshops on special topics, such as design and manufacturing of
composite structures or design and programming of electronic components.

The Duke mechanical engineering senior design experience helps students
prepare for the workplace. During the first semester, in ME 421L(141L)
Mechanical Design, students work in teams of 4 to 8 to design and implement a
project, and use technical writing skills to produce a project plan and design
report. During the second semester, in ME 424L(160L) Mechanical Systems
Design, students complete their project and deliver a final report, project
poster and oral presentation.

The Duke senior design experience emphasizes the following skills:

  * written communication
  * oral communication
  * engineering ethics
  * project planning and scheduling
  * decision-making
  * team building and dynamics
  * engineering economics
  * developing/writing functional specifications
  * safety in product design
  * leadership
  * standards and regulations
  * drawings/creativity/concept generation
  * analysis tools
  * intellectual property/patents
  * prototyping and testing
  * optimization
  * sustainability
  * manufacturing processes
  * risk assessment
  * CAD design and layout
  * product liability and quality assurance

The project costs for senior design classes are funded through department,
industry sponsors and foundation support, with individual project team budgets
ranging from a few hundred dollars to several thousand.

## Industry Sponsorship

Often students will work with industrial partners in a collaborative research
environment. As they tackle real-world engineering projects, the engineering
students and their industry sponsors are afforded unlimited possibilities for
learning and achievement.

**Industry partners benefit by:**

  * the opportunity to initiate elective research projects,
  * collaboration with Duke research faculty,
  * the design, analysis, testing and creative talent of students,
  * the creation of innovative and competitive products,
  * the development of improved manufacturing or business processes,
  * the opportunity to see students at work and recruit seniors,
  * networking at the end-of-semester presentations and competition.

## Example Senior Design Reports

  * Ram-Air Turbine Blue Team
  * Ram-Air Turbine White Team
  * Greenback Renewable Backup  
Power Supply

## Example Senior Design Student Project Descriptions

**Solar Hot Water System in Duke Smart Home** \- The goal of this project was
to improve the overall heat transfer rate of the solar hot water system in the
Duke Smart Home, thereby increasing both energy and cost savings. The design
team spent a semester investigating ways to improve the system’s efficiency
through implementation of variable speed pumps. Preliminary design work was
performed and is summarized in this report. The variable speed pumps were
installed in the Smart Home and the programming and experimentation processes
are outlined herein as well. The experiment resulted in a marked efficiency
improvement by running the pumps at variable speed rather than constant speed.
Results of this project are presented in detail and suggestions for further
improvements are presented in the conclusion.

**Ram Air Turbine (2 Teams)** \- The goal of this project is to create a ram-
air turbine design, completely from scratch. The scope of the project includes
the housing, blade geometry, electrical generator and mount; due to time
constraints, a deployment mechanism for the RAT was not included. More
formally, our goal is to create a turbine capable of generating supplemental
power for an aircraft using only the air flow around that aircraft. Our
intended market is small, low-speed aircraft, as our RAT will be undersized
for large commercial aircraft applications; the wind tunnel at Duke University
limits us to a diameter of 10 inches, whereas airliner RATs are on the order
of two to three feet in diameter. One purpose for our product will of course
be power production for the primary electrical system in emergency situations.
However, our RAT could also be used to provide a continuous supply of power in
normal flight to devices that are separate from the aircraft’s main electrical
system; the best example of this are crop dusters, which sometimes use a ram
air turbine to power their spray pumps. Applications for external pods on
unmanned aerial vehicles are also possible. This project was completed as two
team competition in which the teams were provided a set of design objectives.

**Agua Delicioso: Peruvian Water System** \- The aim of this project was to
provide a running water source at the school in Ciudad de Dios, Peru. Our team
spent a semester designing a pumping system suitable for this purpose. A
prototype of the pump was constructed and subjected to engineering analysis.
The first few prototypes were successful at pumping water but also experienced
an unacceptable level of slipping of the rope on the wheel and thus
improvements were necessary to minimize the losses caused by this slippage.
After trying a few different solutions to the slipping problem, we settled on
using V-shaped metal brackets attached to the wheel to “catch” the pistons as
the wheel turned. This version (prototype III) performed very reliably and
efficiently and thus was settled upon for our final design.

**Rod Bending Device for Spinal Fusion Surgery** \- The fusion of vertebrae
along the human spine using titanium rods is a common surgical practice in the
treatment of a number of spinal disorders. Such a procedure requires a
titanium rod adequately bent to match the natural curvature of the backbone.
Currently, surgeons must bend titanium rods using potentially tiring and time-
consuming manual equipment. The objective of this project group was to
conceive, design, and produce a working prototype of a device that will bend a
titanium rod to a desired conformation quickly, with minimal physical effort
on the part of the operator; it must be fabricated of sterilizable material
and be usable in an operating room setting. A proof-of-concept prototype was
built to illustrate the viability of the essential mechanism of the complete
design of the device.

**Blood Pressure Testing Machine** \- The aim of this project is to develop a
device to test current blood pressure monitoring devices. This device will
test the monitors till failure which is defined as a loss of accuracy and/or
physical rupturing of the device. The design team spent a semester working to
develop a prototype which would simulate pulsatile pressure and heartbeat
which could be used to continuously test the blood pressure monitors. Data was
taken and stored throughout the repeated cycles including the pressure data
for each cycle, number of cycles versus time, and cuff pressure versus time.
After over a thousand cycles, the wrist monitor had not failed as originally
planned it would through both analytical and computational analysis. However,
it had shown signs of wear traceable to bladder fatigue. Given more time,
further cycles should be completed to ultimately determine method of failure
and propose new bladder design for more durable and extended usage in
developing countries.

**Smart Mailbox (2 Teams)** \- The aim of this project was to construct a
“smart mailbox” to suit the needs of the residents of the Duke Smart Home. The
goal of the team was to build a prototype that is theft-proof and can indicate
to the residents that mail has arrived, while also being aesthetically
pleasing and constructed with environmentally friendly materials. This
structure would also be sustainable against vandalism in the form of objects
striking the side of the mailbox. After careful planning and consideration of
requests, a design for a prototype was sketched, manufactured and tested.

**Smart Home Energy Storage** \- The purpose of this project is to create a
system that will convert human energy used during exercise to energy that
could charge a battery and thus power a given appliance. The team spent the
past semester and a half researching possible equipment that could be
converted to satisfy the stated goal. A bicycle trainer made of used car parts
and connected to a car alternator was chosen as the device that will be used
to charge a power pack. All preliminary design and calculations were completed
and are included within. Using the 3-D modeling software SolidWorks and the
finite element analysis package COSMOS Works, a conceptual design was created
and tested for structural integrity. A prototype based on this design was then
constructed in the lab.

**Autonomous Underwater Vehicle** \- The goal of this project was to design
and fabricate multiple components to be utilized in an Autonomous Underwater
Vehicle (AUV). It is our intent that with the help of other members of the
Duke Robotics Club from the ECE/CS departments the AUV will compete in San
Diego at the end of July. The scope of the project included the chassis,
mechanical claw, and marker dropper. It was our aim to improve the previous
designs of the chassis and marker dropper and the mechanical claw was
incorporated as a new task for the upcoming competition. The tasks that must
be completed during the competition involve both vision as well as acoustic
software in concert with a durable mechanical structure.

**Greenback Renewable Backup Power Supply** – The goal of the Green Back
project was to create a backup power supply that would be renewable and
“green” in nature. The focus of the project was on a functional residential
power backup system that had a realistic potential to reach consumers and make
a tangible difference in the real world. Analysis of the wants and needs of
customers, of existing products, of government incentives provided a basic
sketch of how the unit might function, and from there a prototype was
manufactured.

## Undergraduate Contacts

### Donald Bliss

Associate Professor and Director of Undergraduate Studies

__919-660-5315

__donald.bliss@duke.edu

### Nico Hotz

Associate Professor of the Practice and Associate Director of Undergraduate
Studies

__919-660-5118

__nico.hotz@duke.edu

### Amy Spaulding

Director of Undergraduate Studies Assistant

__919-660-5310

__amy.spaulding@duke.edu

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

