

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2020

# Finding Your Place in Research

March 1, 2020 | By Francisco Reveriano

Master's students stress the importance of doing homework on research labs
before deciding to join one

Duke students are not just students; they are also researchers, mentors and
activists. In the Pratt School of Engineering, the role of a researcher is
highly prized and sought after, and choosing the right project is critical for
success.

While the pressure to join a research team often pushes students to join the
first lab that replies or accepts them, this pressure promotes the wrong
mentality in students. Instead of joining whichever lab responds firsts,
students should focus on the atmosphere, structure and—most
importantly—research topic of the group.

From the earliest moments on campus tours, tour guides like to tell
prospective students that research opportunities are plentiful, then proceed
to share anecdotes about their personal research experiences. This paints the
picture that all one needs to do to get started with research is simply
'decide' that you are ready for it.

However, that is not necessarily the case. After this simple decision comes a
series of rather difficult questions. With whom do you want to do research?
Where do you want to do research? What type of research are you interested in?
Responding correctly to these questions is crucial to shaping a research
experience.

Some students arrive at Duke with the idea that they must 'do' research before
they even establish what topics they are interested in and what they want to
accomplish. Because research experience is highly preferred for many
engineering careers and PhD programs, students view it as something to check
off on a long list of career prerequisites.

But it is oftentimes the students that decide to wait before diving into
research who have much more positive experiences. These students attribute the
importance of course exploration and general networking with faculty during
their first year to their success in finding the right research positions.

For example, graduate student Simiao Ren recounted that he arrived on campus
interested in performing research in quantum computing, but he changed his
mind in his second semester. "My first-year coursework at Duke convinced me
that my true passion is in machine learning," he explained. "And by waiting
until my second year to start research, I was able to open more opportunities
by networking with the students in the labs I was interested in."

These students were able to directly connect Ren to the principal
investigators of each lab. Through those connections and conversations, he is
now proudly working in Leslie Collins's Applied Machine Learning Lab.

This raises the important question of how to successfully join a meaningful
project. Before answering this question, you should ask yourself why you want
to do research. The next question should be, what type of research, and in
what field(s)? Answering these two questions will allow you to more
effectively and purposefully approach professors.

A method that greatly helped Ren and other students was proactively connecting
with the graduate students working in labs of interest. This strategy allows
students to view the lab's work in a closer context, see how the work
progresses and—most importantly— meet the people you could be working with.

Duke research faculty truly want students to end up in roles that they are
passionate about. Faculty want students to do their homework and meet with the
lab before joining so that they can decide if they are interested in working
with the people in the lab and are genuinely interested in the topic. As
graduate student Evan Stump explained, "Joining a research group is deciding
that [the research] is genuinely a topic that you are passionate about and
most importantly feel is worth it."

**Francisco Reveriano is a first-year graduate student completing a master's
in engineering in electrical and computer engineering.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2020

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

