

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2020

# Versatility of Machine Learning

March 1, 2020 | By Isabella Wang

David Carlson is helping colleagues across campus use machine learning in
their own fields of expertise while removing the “black box” from the equation

David Carlson is an assistant professor in both the Pratt School of
Engineering and the Duke School of Medicine. He works between the Departments
of Civil & Environmental Engineering and Biostatistics & Bioinformatics. His
interdisciplinary position allows him to solve interesting problems that
connect algorithms with various fields, and he is currently working with a
team of graduate students and post-docs to develop new machine learning
methodology. Every couple of weeks, he meets with collaborators to scope out
the problem that they want to work on together.

Or as Carlson puts it, "The most important thing is not necessarily using the
perfect method but asking the right question. That usually means, what is the
right scientific question that we want to ask?"

Great algorithms can be "black boxes" that seem to magically solve problems.
While these algorithms may be great in a lab setting, they can be difficult to
apply to real-world problems. It can be hard to interpret them and explain how
they work to experts who want to use them in their own field of study.

Take a convolutional neural network, for example. The underlying mathematical
operations are very simple, largely made of linear equations and
unidimensional functions that have a single variable. Most of the time,
elements are only multiplied or added together. But while each individual step
is easy to understand, the key issue is that the algorithm may contain tens of
millions of parameters that lead to billions of operations. The sheer amount
of calculations that the machine performs renders the algorithm too complex
for even experts to make sense of.

Carlson doesn't believe "black box" algorithms should be the default approach
in many scientific problems. He believes that it is crucial to understand the
reasoning behind outputs from algorithms and why a machine made its decisions.
Working backwards from the outcome, researchers can deduce the factors that
played a major role in producing that outcome. These factors can then provide
insight into problems that experts in various fields are working to solve.

According to Carlson, new techniques in machine learning and artificial
intelligence are developed so that they can be applied in specific situations
in other fields. "So if we're talking about neuroscience, or any specific
application for that matter," Carlson said, "we're forcing algorithms into a
framework that we think we could explain to a neuroscientist who understands
what these patterns really mean."

Recently, Carlson has collaborated with professors studying primarily
neuroengineering and environmental engineering. Kafui Dzirasa, the K. Ranga
Rama Krishnan Associate Professor in the Departments of Psychiatry and
Behavioral Sciences, Neurobiology, Bioengineering and Neurosurgery, and leader
of the lab for psychiatric neuroengineering, has been working with Carlson for
the past five years. Last year, they published a study on using machine
learning to find biomarkers (measurable quantities) for stress susceptibility
in the hopes of creating preventative treatments for depression.

While common treatment paradigms primarily intervene after an individual has
already become depressed, Carlson said, "We're trying to use interpretable or
explainable machine learning...to predict the future, and we want to make sure
that we can frame this in the context of what's actually happening in the
brain." Carlson and Dzirasa discovered a network of brain activity, or a
reproducible pattern of electrical fluctuations, that strongly signals how
susceptible a mouse is to depression. Moving forward, they plan to further
understand these patterns and transfer these findings into treatments for
depression in humans.

In environmental science, Carlson has collaborated with Michael Bergin,
professor of civil and environmental engineering, and his PhD student Tongshu
Zheng to improve low-cost air quality sensors. They are looking to use
satellite imagery data in conjunction with data from the sensors to train
scalable algorithms to detect particulate matter and predict air quality by
"looking" at the sky.

In addition to his research, Carlson is also a part of the "+Data Science"
initiative, which encourages all students to learn how to incorporate machine
learning into their majors. Through this initiative, Carlson and his
colleagues have produced a lot of work in the social sciences, humanities and
the arts. The arts department at Duke and Matthew Kenney have fostered the
development of digital humanities. They've found that machine learning can be
useful in understanding forgery and analyzing the origins of historical
paintings. Students have even gone on to design art using algorithms in the
Duke A.I. for Art competition.

"One of the things I really love about being at Duke and studying science in
general is that I can't do it alone," said Carlson. "I like to think I have my
little part, but there's a lot of work across the board in combining
expertise. That's a lot of the fun for me."

The way Carlson sees it, algorithms are not smarter than humans. Their talent
is in performing calculations efficiently without losing accuracy or focus.
They are also inherently experienced because they have access to a large
amount of data. By reaching out to and working with experts all around the
university, Carlson—and his machine learning algorithms—has helped people save
time on processing data and take advantage of computational power, no matter
what field they belong to.

**Isabella Wang is a first-year student planning to major in biomedical
engineering and computer science.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2020

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

