Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Finding the Signal Through the Noise

March 24, 2021 | Michaela Kane

Duke BME researchers are pioneering new approaches to turn raw data into
valuable insights to detect disease and guide treatment

From imaging technologies that scan many layers of tissue to advanced sensors
that can use light to track everything from heart rate to blood sugar levels,
researchers are developing tools that can generate biomedical information at
an unprecedented scale and pace. Through advancements in artificial
intelligence, digital health modeling and data science, Duke BME researchers
are pioneering new approaches to turn that raw data into valuable insights to
detect disease and guide treatment.

The image shows the arteries and veins distinguished in the eye

## Decoding Data from the Eye

During a standard eye exam, an ophthalmologist may examine the layers of
neurons and tissue at the back of the eye. When a person’s eyes are healthy,
these layers, each made of different types of cells, appear thick and
organized. But if a person has a disease like glaucoma or age-related macular
degeneration, these layers may shrink or become deformed.

Researchers can use tools like Optical Coherence Tomography, or OCT, to
specifically detect the thickness of these individual layers and determine how
far the disease has progressed, which informs the course of treatment. But
while these measurements are accurate, they aren’t sensitive enough to detect
the early stages of many eye diseases, when individual cells die without
affecting the overall thickness and shape of the tissue.

Utilizing the most sensitive imaging system to date, Sina Farsiu, the Paul
Ruffin Scarborough Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, used his
expertise in artificial intelligence to create deep-learning algorithms that
can accurately identify subtle biomarkers of eye diseases other than thickness
from OCT images of the retina, allowing for earlier diagnosis.

Farsiu is the director of the Vision and Image Processing Laboratory at Duke,
where his students pursue projects at the intersection of biomedical
engineering, ophthalmology, electrical and computer engineering, and computer
science.

“We develop machine learning algorithms for a variety of photonic imaging
systems to enhance the quality of images,” says Farsiu. “This work gives us a
mountain of data to work with, and we’ve used that data to develop intelligent
algorithms that can accurately point out biomarkers of both ophthalmological
diseases and neurodegenerative diseases, like Alzheimer’s and ALS.”

Sina Farsiu

These algorithms have also proven useful for clinical trials. For example, a
2020 study showed that researchers could use software built by Farsiu’s PhD
student Jessica Loo to accurately assess thousands of images from a phase II
clinical drug study.

“This software allowed us to scan the images for biomarkers that indicated
whether the drug being tested was working or not,” says Farsiu. “We showed
that it was just as accurate as the extremely costly human assessment from a
standard clinical trial.”

Now, Farsiu and his postdoc, Reza Rasti, are exploring how they can apply
algorithms to predict the outcome of various therapies for patients with
diabetes-related vision loss.

Somayyeh Soltanian-Zadeh

The first-line therapy for these patients is typically anti-vascular
endothelial growth factor, or anti-VEGF, which can often save a person’s
vision for several years.

However, the drug must be injected directly into the eye through an invasive
and expensive procedure, and it doesn’t work for all patients.

“There is a large portion of people where this therapy isn’t effective,” says
Farsiu. “If anti-VEGF doesn’t work, then the doctor will laser your eye, and
if that doesn’t work, they will explore a series of other treatment options
until you respond or you go blind, which isn’t ideal.”

With their approach, the team can identify biomarkers from OCT images that
indicate which patients would respond to anti-VEGF therapy and which ones
won’t, saving them from undergoing an invasive and costly therapy.

“This technology is really robust––it has applications for different disease
detection and other practical uses,” says Farsiu. “The goal of AI so far is to
be able to replicate what doctors do, but no doctor can just look at images
and say that a patient will respond to a specific therapy. With this tool,
we’ve now gone beyond what a doctor can do, and we can do it with very high
accuracy.”

## Wearable Devices for a Wealth of Health Insights

Whether it’s on a track, on a trail, in the pool or at the gym, smartwatches
and other wearable devices are becoming the most common accessory seen on a
person’s wrist. These devices can measure a person’s activity levels,
recording an average running pace, daily step counts and even biological data,
like heart rate and sleep patterns.

But now, Jessilyn Dunn, an assistant professor of biomedical engineering and
biostatistics & bioinformatics at Duke, aims to explore how both researchers
and physicians can transform everyday data into effective health decisions.

Dunn runs the Big Ideas Lab, which merges data science and biomedical
engineering. With a joint appointment in the department of biostatistics &
bioinformatics, Dunn has focused her efforts on understanding how wearable
devices can identify digital biomarkers for cardiometabolic diseases, like
diabetes, and assessing and improving the accuracy of wearable technology.

“My goal is to turn data sources from an information delivery system into an
insight delivery system,” says Dunn. “When you go to the doctor for a check-
up, they usually see you for about 15 minutes once a year. Instead, we’d like
to use these devices to gather your health data over longer periods and allow
physicians to use that data not only to catch who is sick, but to catch who
will become sick and then develop appropriate interventions.”

Dunn is exploring this idea through a MEDx (Medicine + Engineering at Duke)
grant, which funds a project centered on detecting digital biomarkers of
glycemia and glycemic variability. These measurements indicate the amount of
glucose in the blood, which determines if a person is prediabetic or diabetic.

Jessilyn Dunn

“One in three Americans is prediabetic, and that’s detected when a person goes
into a clinic for a blood glucose test,” says Dunn. “Ideally, that’s
representative of the norm for that person, but if that’s not the case then
the diagnosis and subsequent therapies would be missed. We’d like to come up
with a more continuous metric that would give more accurate information about
someone’s likelihood of becoming prediabetic.”

Building on Dunn’s previous research, the team is developing predictive
algorithms and using machine learning to identify digital biomarkers that
indicate if a person is at risk of prediabetes.

“This could involve a combination of measuring the number of steps a person
takes and their circadian change in heart rate,” says Dunn. “The combination
of the change in multiple factors could actually be predictive of someone’s
insulin sensitivity, as it gives us an idea of their heart’s function and
their physical activity level.”

Allowing patients to gather these measurements via wearable devices removes
the need for invasive testing, as patients are much more likely to wear a
smartwatch than they are to have regular blood draws.

But as uses for wearable devices continue to grow, Dunn also wants to ensure
that these devices are working as accurately as possible for anyone interested
in using them.

“Companies that manufacture these devices don’t put out any metrics about how
well they work across a variety of factors,” says Dunn. “So we wanted to
collect evidence about how well they work and identify potential circumstances
where they may not work well.”

In a February 2020 study, Dunn and her PhD student Brinnae Bent explored the
accuracy of the heart rate measurements from the most popular wearable
devices: the Apple Watch 4, Fitbit Charge 2, Garmin Vivosmart 3 and Xiaomi
Midband. The team assessed their accuracy over a variety of skin tones and
during various activities, using an ECG measurement as the reference standard.

The team found that, while the devices aren’t affected by skin tones, the
accuracy between wearables begins to vary wildly when they measure heart rate
during different types of everyday activities, such as typing or walking.

“If there are disparities in how these devices work, we need to identify and
correct them,” says Dunn. “Our hope is that these wearables will fill a gap in
the health care world. Health happens 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Our
goal is to improve long-term and acute health monitoring outside of the clinic
and get easy-to-use health care tools to people who may not typically have
easy access to standard health care in the first place.”

Read additional stories from this issue

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

