Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Illuminating the Future of Biomedical Imaging Tools

March 24, 2021 | Michaela Kane

From microscopes to lasers, Roarke Horstmeyer is redesigning optical tools to
uncover new information about biological systems and disease

## Zooming in on a Tiny Parasite

The malaria parasite is an expert when it comes to destroying red blood cells.

When a human is bitten by an infected mosquito, the parasite enters the
bloodstream and travels to the liver, where it multiplies before it’s released
back into a patient’s bloodstream and begins its quick work of annihilating
red blood cells from the inside out.

According to the World Health Organization, there were more than 229 million
cases of malaria across the globe in 2019, and more than 400,000 people died
from the disease.

It’s a significant amount of destruction for a parasite that measures less
than one millionth of a meter.

Although malaria is exceedingly common, it’s not the easiest disease to
diagnose. When a doctor suspects that a patient has malaria, they’ll typically
take a blood sample to track down the tiny parasite with a microscope.

Although visual examination is considered the gold standard to confirm a
diagnosis, signs of the malaria parasite are easy to miss––both trained
physicians and current computer algorithms have a tough time at accurate
identification. Complicating matters, high-resolution microscopes only allow
clinicians to examine a few dozen cells at a time, and they’ll often need to
examine a few thousand cells before they find any sign of the parasite, which
can take tens of minutes per slide.

But Roarke Horstmeyer, an assistant professor of biomedical engineering at
Duke University, aims to make this process faster and more accurate through
the creation of new optical tools and image post-processing methods.

Horstmeyer runs the Computational Optics Lab at Duke, where his students
develop new microscopes, cameras and computer algorithms for biomedical
applications. According to Horstmeyer, it’s challenging to clearly capture
biological events, as properties like image resolution, field-of-view and
video frame rates of current optical tools are still surprisingly limited.

“These limits affect areas across medicine, from the pathologist who cannot
quickly measure an infection in blood cells to neuroscientists who can only
use light to monitor neural activity along the top surface of the brain,” he
says. “Our lab tries to address these shortcomings by coming up with new
optical approaches that can give us a new way to see and study biological
systems, as well as new algorithms that can assist us with these challenging
tasks.”

The LED microscope adapts its lighting to automatically detect diseases

## Lighting Up Blood-Borne Diseases

The microscope uses machine learning to automatically adapt its lighting to
the best settings to diagnose diseases

One of the lab’s largest projects involved the creation of a microscope that
uses machine learning to automatically adapt its lighting to the best settings
to diagnose diseases, like malaria.

“We’re really excited about using machine learning for optimizing optical
systems,” says Horstmeyer. “Nature has evolved thousands of types of eyes for
different animals, and we were curious if we could re-create this evolutionary
process with a computer, to produce a new type of ‘microscope eye’ that is
optimized to pick up certain characteristics of a biological sample that are
important for a diagnosis.”

A standard microscope operates by shining a uniform amount of light on a
sample from all directions. For their new microscope, Horstmeyer and his
collaborators instead created a bowl-shaped light source embedded with LEDs,
allowing the samples to be illuminated from different angles and with
different colors. The new angled lighting pattern can then cast shadows and
highlight different areas of the sample, depending on which set of LEDs is
turned on.

The team connected this LED panel to their microscope, which was programmed
with a machine learning algorithm called a convolutional neural network. Using
blood samples that carried the malaria parasite, the algorithm enabled the
microscope to “learn” which features indicated malaria infection, and which
light patterns could best highlight those features.

> “Today it typically takes a clinician upwards of ten to 15 minutes to find
> the malaria parasite in a blood sample. It’s so small that you need a really
> powerful lens, and that only allows you to see about a dozen blood cells at
> any given time,” says Horstmeyer. “But our tool can zoom out and scan
> thousands of cells at once, and the microscope can make up for the drop in
> resolution by optimizing the illumination to identify and highlight hard-to-
> see features.”
>
> Roarke Horstmeyer

Although imaging a larger area results in lower resolution and thus typically
leads to very low detection accuracies, this new “intelligent” microscope can
still correctly identify the malaria parasite in the sample about 95 percent
of the time. The process also takes just a few seconds.

Horstmeyer and his team are optimistic that the tool can be modified to
rapidly diagnose other blood-borne diseases, like tuberculosis or even
intestinal parasites. They could also use the tool to determine if certain
tissue lesions show a risk of progressing to cancer.

The top row shows infected cells without the aid of the microscope. The
bottown shows the visible parasite as seen through the microscope.

## Tracking a New Disease

After the onset of the global coronavirus pandemic in March of 2020, the team
also began to explore if their technology could be used to identify signs of
the SARS-CoV-2 virus in blood samples taken from patients.

“A year ago nobody really knew how the virus worked or about its interactions
with the body, but it was vaguely understood that it affects the blood because
we were seeing issues with blood clotting,” says Horstmeyer. “We figured it
must be changing the morphology of the blood cells, which is something that
other viruses do, and we were curious if we could use the microscope to
identify these specific changes in the shape and color of blood cells and use
that to detect and diagnose patients with the SARS-CoV-2.”

Although the virus is too small to be seen in the microscope, the team worked
with hematologists and pathologists at Duke Health to develop algorithms that
could help the microscope identify specific changes in blood cells that could
indicate a coronavirus infection.

“Our original goal was to create a COVID diagnostic, but since the project
began a year ago, we’ve also explored whether we can use the blood samples to
both identify the infection and predict patient outcomes,” says Horstmeyer.
“Living through a pandemic has provided the team with really unique
circumstances in which to test this technology, so while it’s been challenging
it’s also been really meaningful and exciting.”

By linking together 96 smartphone camera sensors into a grid, each camera in
the array can capture a detailed image of a small section of area

## A Detailed Field of View

Today’s microscopes allow users to zoom in on their object of study, enabling
them to see details like the scales on a butterfly wing, the neuronal activity
of a zebrafish or the pulsing cells in a tissue sample. Although these views
are detailed, they’re also incredibly limited—requiring users to move their
sample by a few millimeters every few moments as they piece together a full
field of view.

It’s incredibly challenging to make large camera lenses that can image a
really large area at high resolution, so microscopes can rarely capture high-
resolution detail over a multi-centimeter viewing area. But the Horstmeyer lab
has developed a solution to this problem with a new multi-lens microscope
design, called the micro-camera array microscope, or MCAM.

By linking together 96 smartphone camera sensors into a grid, each camera in
the array can capture a detailed image of a small section of area, which the
researchers can then stich together into a larger, complete image that can
contain up to one billion pixels (a gigapixel) per snapshot.

“After we stitch the images together we can see a really large area, which for
us would be the size of a full piece of paper, at high resolution – almost at
the resolution to see single cells, which normal microscopes can’t do,” says
Horstmeyer.

Currently, Horstmeyer is collaborating with researchers in the neuroscience
community, such as Eva Naumann in Duke’s Neurobiology Department, to use the
microscope to observe animal models, like zebrafish, as they freely move
around and interact across a large area.

“We can outfit the microscope with fluorescent filters, which match up with
fluorescent tags in the animal models, and that allows us to measure their
neural activity as they freely move around and interact within their
environment,” he says. “It’s a great tool because it allows us to see and
record many things happening simultaneously, so we aren’t limited to looking
at one small area or working with just one organism at a time.”

Horstmeyer and his collaborators have been able to translate this technology
into their own startup, Ramona Optics, where they’ll continue to develop and
manufacture the MCAM.

Click to zoom in on these gigapixel images from Ramona Optics:

## Peering Beneath Tissue

One of the lab’s newest projects involves using light to measure biological
events deep inside tissue. One of the simplest and oldest tools currently
available involves placing a small light source, like an LED, on the tissue
surface, and then measuring the brightness of scattered light at a variety of
other locations. This technique is particularly popular for measuring blood
flow within the head. As light shines from the LED, blood will absorb the
scattered light and affect the amount that ultimately hits each detector,
resulting in measurable dips in brightness.

“If you place multiple LEDs and sensors in different locations across the
head, you can back out a really low-resolution image of blood flow, similar to
a low-quality MRI. Then you can see how blood flow to certain areas of the
brain changes when the subject completes different tasks,” says Horstmeyer.
“We are changing this approach by using laser light, and instead of measuring
how much light is absorbed, we’re measuring how fast blood is moving at
different locations, by detecting the rapid variation of the laser light over
time.”

To achieve this, the team has modified a technique known as diffuse
correlation spectroscopy, where they’re now using thousands of highly
sensitive “single-photon avalanche diode” sensors placed into an array, to
quickly detect even the slightest changes in light.

“For our first tests we’re just trying to see what the smallest changes are
that we can detect, and how quickly can we see them,” says Horstmeyer. “Our
first results are really promising, and we’re now beginning to measure how
blood flow changes during certain behavioral activities and similar
applications. It’s an exciting prospect for us.

> “Light has always been useful at helping us understanding biology and
> optics,” says Horstmeyer. “I’m having a lot of fun working at the
> intersection of the two.”

Read additional stories from this issue

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

