Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Mirror Makerspaces, An Ocean Away

March 24, 2021 | Michaela Kane

Duke First-Year Design students partner with engineers at Makerere University
in Uganda to create twin work spaces out of shipping containers

At first glance, a shipping container doesn’t seem like an ideal place to get
work done. The extended length of the crate makes for an awkward, tunnel-like
layout, and the need for lights and electricity to operate tools makes an
external power source an inconvenient necessity. But despite these challenges,
Ann Saterbak believes they’ll make an ideal design space for engineers.

Saterbak, professor of the practice in biomedical engineering, teaches the
Pratt School of Engineering’s First-Year Design course, where teams of
freshmen spend up to two semesters prototyping design projects for community
partners across Duke, Durham and beyond. In the three years since the
program’s inception, students have completed projects including a device to
feed lemurs at the Duke Lemur Center, a bridge that can withstand major
weather events and a realistic arm model that helps nursing students practice
IV-line insertion.

Now, Saterbak is helping two teams of students turn an abandoned shipping
container into a functional workspace where engineers can design and prototype
various inventions, all while using tools that are practical, affordable and
widely accessible in low-income environments. The project was planned with
engineering partners at Makerere University in Kampala, Uganda, where students
lacked a proper design workspace.

As students at Duke make modifications to their container, they’re also
collaborating with engineering faculty at Makerere to duplicate their efforts
and create a ‘twin’ workspace in a container in Uganda.

“The idea was that we needed to create an affordable makerspace, and we needed
to create something that Makerere could easily duplicate,” says Saterbak. “We
decided to use shipping containers because there are so many of them in
Uganda, and they are readily available to use. They are also commonly
converted into other things, including businesses and restaurants, so a design
space wasn’t a stretch of the imagination.”

Ann Saterbak discusses the design of the container with students from the
project

The project marks the evolution of the years-long partnership between Duke
Biomedical Engineering and Makerere University. Developed by William (Monty)
Reichert, professor emeritus of Duke BME, the partnership was created to
encourage biomedical engineering students to approach engineering problems
with cost-efficient and practical solutions for resource-limited settings.
Since the program’s launch in 2014, six students from Makerere have also come
to Duke to earn master’s degrees in BME before returning to Uganda as BME
instructors.

After pitching the shipping container idea to various organizations, Saterbak
eventually received a $30,000 grant from VentureWell to pursue the project.
Two teams signed on to the project in Fall 2019 and were immediately
challenged to think about how to find materials and tools to create a fully
functioning design space in a resource-limited setting.

Students hang up a white board in the container

“Part of my motivation for offering this project in EGR 101 was actually due
to frustration,” says Saterbak. “When we would assign students projects for
resource-limited communities, we tried to get them to think about how they
would make tools or devices with resources that would be available in those
communities. But students would still make prototypes that included something
that was 3D-printed or a piece of material that you couldn’t find or procure
in a low-income area.

“Moving forward, Duke EGR 101 teams with projects that are designed to be used
in a low-income area will have to work in the shipping container to
iteratively prototype their project.”

One team was assigned to set up the basic workspace in the container, finding
thrift-store tables and chairs that were both affordable and functional. They
also worked with a carpenter to learn how to make wooden bookshelves for tool
storage. A second team spent the semester exploring potential power source
ideas, eventually deciding to install solar panels on the container’s roof.

“Building in the space was definitely a reality check,” says Aidan McCurry,
one of the first-year students working on the interior of the container. “It
took a while to get used to physically building in the space, which was
challenging because of the awkward layout. And we were constantly
corresponding with the Makerere teams to make sure all of our ideas, like the
bookshelves and solar panels, were practical.”

Students work in the semester in Spring of 2020 (left) and Spring of 2021
(right)

Saterbak also included the visiting Makerere scholars in the process,
appointing Solomon Oshabaheebwa as a teacher’s assistant for the First Year
Design course, where he helped with various projects including the storage
container.

The solar panels on top of the shipping container

“I certainly had more of a personal connection with the storage container
project,” says Oshabaheebwa. “We don’t have a dedicated design space at
Makerere, and students will sometimes work in classrooms or even in their dorm
rooms. I was able to give the Duke students a firsthand perspective about what
our needs were, and how we’d work around problems when specific tools or
things like laser cutters or 3D printers aren’t available.

“I also think that the TA experience was really helpful to me, as I got more
comfortable in a teaching-type role during the semester, and that will be
useful when I go back to Makerere as a BME instructor,” he says.

Engineering is always a work in progress

In a previous Duke-Makerere design course, students prototyped a variety of
projects with their Makerere counterparts, including a LED-lined crib to treat
infants with jaundice, a cooled backpack to help with vaccine transport and an
oxygen flowmeter that can help deliver oxygen to multiple neonates in a single
ward. With the new workspace, Saterbak is optimistic that engineering students
will be able to continue creating practical biomedical tools despite
technological limitations.

“I had always been interested in global health, and I’d previously taken a
medical device design course, so this project really grabbed my attention,”
says Katherine Drinkwater, a MEMS student involved with the project. “It was
exciting to be involved in a project that will have a direct influence on a
community that needs it.”

  * Students begin assembling a bookshelf to be placed in the shipping
    container

  * Katherine Drinkwater completes the assembly of a bookshelf

  * The team moves the bookshelf from their workspace

  * The team brings the bookshelf to the storage container

  * The students secure the placement of the new bookshelf

Finalizing the furniture, tools and materials was initially slated to wrap up
in the spring of 2020, but when the coronavirus pandemic forced classes to go
remote in late March, that timeline changed.

“The team really faced an unprecedented challenge, so I was impressed that
they were able to move forward with their project virtually,” says Saterbak.
“They were able to coordinate with some of the teaching assistants to slowly
plan and complete the layout and design for the inside of the container, and
they were able to hit the ground running when they could safely return to
campus the following fall.”

In addition to completing the interior work during the summer and fall of
2020, a few new teams were able to join the project, where they worked on
adding the solar panels to the container’s roof and a retractable awning to
create a shaded outdoor design space.

The retractable awning will allow the engineers to expand their covered design
space.

Beyond the design additions, the team was also invited to participate in the
Fowler Global Social Innovation Challenge, where they were one of two Duke
teams to be named Global Finalists and were invited to the virtual finals in
June of 2020.

“The competition was a great experience for us to examine the impact of our
makerspace on people outside of Duke and imagine what we’d like the project to
grow into in the future,” says Drinkwater.

With the container nearly complete, the design teams will now test the
efficacy of the space by designing a light-therapy device to treat newborns
with jaundice. Saterbak has also been approached by two Duke Bass Connections
teams who would like to use the container to create projects of their own.

“This project was really exciting because it can have a positive impact on a
lot of different fields, like engineering, global health and environmental
health, and it’s a relatively easy solution to a longstanding problem,” says
Saterbak. “My big goal is that if this is successful then we’ve essentially
created a prototype that can be easily replicated in resource-limited settings
across the globe, and that’s an exciting prospect.”

The team poses with the shipping container

More about the First-Year Design program

More about the Duke-MUK BME Partnership

Read additional stories from this issue

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

