Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Turning Problems into Prototypes

March 24, 2021 | Michaela Kane

Duke BME’s industry focused Medical Device Design certificate teaches master’s
students how to identify unmet clinical needs and develop innovative solutions
with a robust business plan

Before they set foot in a design lab, master’s students in the Medical Device
Design program at Duke University are already hard at work. Before the fall
semester, students are immersed in the clinical environment––observing
surgeries in the operating room, monitoring the daily activities in an ICU,
and watching the every day activity of the Duke University health system.

During this time the students will take extensive notes, detailing things like
how many tools are used for different procedures, sketching their surroundings
and writing minute-by-minute accounts of what they see to identify potential
unmet, underserved and unarticulated needs.

Is a surgeon having a difficult time handling a large tool? Are certain
devices always in the way? Does a procedure always take a longer time than
expected?

“By embedding ourselves in the clinical environment, we can begin to see real
behavior rather than a set piece or training behavior, and you begin to see
that what you expect and what actually happens are not always aligned, which
is what we call discontinuities,” says Paul Fearis, a senior lecturing fellow
in Duke Biomedical Engineering and one of the program’s leaders. “Those
discontinuities may be opportunities, and as engineers, innovators and
business people, we look at those opportunities and think how we can create
solutions that will help.”

Led by Fearis, Eric Richardson, an associate professor of the practice in Duke
BME, Joseph A. Knight, an adjunct professor in the Pratt School of Engineering
and a faculty member in Duke’s Innovation & Entrepreneurship Initiative, and
Kristy Fearis, an instructor in Duke BME, the master’s certificate in medical
device design was created to prepare students for careers in the ever-growing
medical device industry. The course sequence does this by closely following
industry practices and taking students through the entire development process
from upstream marketing, through design and prototyping to commercial,
regulatory, quality management and manufacturing aspects.

> “Our goal is to educate students to identify problems in health care and
> empower them to solve those problems. Beyond building up practical design
> skills, this program gives our students an opportunity to immerse themselves
> in a clinical environment and work with stakeholders to identify needs,
> which is a perspective that isn’t always available in more traditional
> design programs.”
>
> Eric Richardson

“The level of feedback we were able to get from our clinical partners really
helped reinforce how real some of our devices could actually be, where we
could take it beyond a school project and actually make into something that we
could market to the real world,” says Craig Warlen, MS’19.

Craig Warlen

“The program actually inspired me to go to medical school because now I do
know for certain that I want to work with medical devices, but in working with
Duke Hospital I realized I know basically nothing about medicine,” he says.
“So I want to learn about medicine so I can bring engineering back into that
and then create medical devices with a more thorough perspective.”

In addition to an advanced design and manufacturing course, master’s students
have the option to take a suite of courses in partnership with the Design
Health Program. During these courses, students work in teams to identify a
problem from a clinical environment. Once the problem is identified, they
collaborate with clinicians and engineers across Duke to develop a prototype,
which they’ll continue to refine and improve based on feedback from
stakeholders. To round out the certificate and underline its industry roots
students, can also take a course in Quality Management Systems, where they
learn how to work within a regulated environment. This course provides the
framework within which the core Design Health project is developed.

Once these courses are complete, students finish their certificate with two
advanced biomedical design courses.

Although the program involves a demanding workload for three semesters, recent
graduates have already used their time in the program to find success in the
medical device design industry.

Anna Matthews

“The experience I gained through the certificate program surpassed what I
thought was possible in three semesters,” says Anna Matthews, MEng’20, now an
engineering & regulatory affairs consultant at the Durham-based medical device
startup ColoWrap. “In that time, our team completely designed and developed
our device--from identifying the user needs all the way to initiating and
designing an IRB-approved trial currently being run at Duke Hospital to
clinically evaluate the performance of the device.

“My time in the program gave me more confidence and allowed me to be a
successful contributor in my career,” she says. “I have been recognized for
the quality of work, resourcefulness, and initiative I’ve shown – all of which
have been developed further because of the MDD program.”

"This ' _more than I thought possible'_ message is one we hear frequently, and
it underlines the goal of the program, which is to take all the knowledge and
experience students bring from their undergraduate studies, add more at the
graduate level and then, most importantly, teach students how to apply all of
that knowledge to the real world, just like an R&D team would," says Fearis.

Students discuss their medical device ideas

Although the program is open to students with limited design experience, those
with a design background have found great success, both during the program and
after graduation.

“I was already working in the medical device industry, but I’d been
considering pursuing a master’s degree and Duke’s program really piqued my
interest,” said Shyam Patel, MS’19, now an engineer at the Duke-born startup
Restor3D. “Working with a lot of clinicians and getting their input actually
leads you to designing a better product. Although that makes a ton of sense,
it’s not necessarily the norm for the medical device design industry.

“You have so many resources you can use and learn from in the program, from
Paul and Eric to the design spaces to the Duke Health system just across the
street. The medical device design certificate was on par with what you’d
experience in the design industry, and I recommend it to anyone who’s
interested medical device design.”

Click here to learn more about the Medical Device Design Certificate and apply
for the program.

Read additional stories from this issue

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

