Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Unlocking the Mysteries Behind Kidney Disease

March 24, 2021 | Michaela Kane

BME’s Samira Musah and her lab use organ-on-a-chip models to explore the
mechanism behind the damaging disease

Samira Musah’s lab at Duke University focuses on a prevalent, but understudied
problem: kidney disease.

According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, more than 15
percent of the U.S. population––approximately 37 million people­­––have the
disease. When the kidneys are operating correctly, they act like a filtering
plant for the body, separating toxins from healthy nutrients and disposing of
waste. But when kidney function is compromised, those toxins can back up in
the system, leading to heart attacks and heart failure, high blood pressure
and neurological issues.

Samira Musah

Although the issue is incredibly prevalent, as many as nine out of 10 adults
with kidney disease are unaware they have any kidney problems, as they exhibit
very few, if any, signs or symptoms until kidney function is significantly
impaired. This delay often means that patients must go through kidney
dialysis, and eventually need a kidney transplant.

Both the prevalence and difficulty in diagnosing kidney disease proved to be
an intriguing problem for Musah. During her post-doctoral fellowship at
Harvard University, Musah was involved in a project to create various organ-
on-chip platforms to model different organs throughout the body. Through this
project, she realized that it was especially difficult to create a working
model of the human kidney.

“I quickly learned that one of the reasons we couldn’t make great models of
kidneys was because we didn’t have access to a reliable source of kidney
cells,” says Musah. “You couldn’t get cells from patients, as that would
involve a really invasive process, so instead we were collecting cells from
kidneys that were either already unhealthy or from organs that were rejected
from transplantation.

“It’s tough to use these samples to create healthy kidney models when the
kidneys they came from didn’t work normally to begin with,” she says.

Instead, Musah was curious if she could use her background in stem cell
biology to create functional kidney cells out of pluripotent stem cells.

The image shows human endothelial cells derived from human induced pluripotent
stem cells

Human podocytes cytoskeleton is dysregulated during injury

“It actually started out as a side project during my post-doc, but I was
really excited about it and I poured a lot of my energy into it,” says Musah.
“I was able to create a new method that allowed us to differentiate human
pluripotent stem cells into a specialized epithelial cell in the kidney. These
cells are important because if they are damaged then the patient is more
likely to progress to kidney failure and end-stage kidney failure, which is
when people would need dialysis or a transplant. It was a cell that was a
significant factor if we wanted to create a model for kidney disease.”

Being able to turn stem cells into healthy and functional kidney cells allowed
Musah and her team to create a new model of the kidney, where they could begin
answering long-standing questions about how the kidneys develop and what
biological changes occur in the organs to trigger kidney disease. Establishing
a functional platform also allowed them to identify and test possible
therapeutics for the global disease––something that’s been extremely difficult
to accomplish.

Since joining Duke in 2019, Musah has used her dual roles in the department of
biomedical engineering and the nephrology division at Duke Health to advance
this work. As her lab has grown, they’ve continued to explore how they can
create new organ-on-a-chip models that are both more efficient and effective.

Human podocytes, a type of kidney cell, in an organ-on-chip device

George Mou completes work in the lab

Their work was put to the test in the spring of 2020, when Musah attended a
virtual symposium where physicians presented research that described how
patients who never had any kidney-related issues were experiencing kidney
disease or kidney failure after being infected with SARS-CoV-2, the virus that
causes COVID-19.

“It was shocking to hear doctors describe how patients that were perfectly
healthy needed to go on dialysis after contracting COVID-19,” says Musah.
“There were also reports that showed that patients with acute kidney disease
were more likely to have a severe reaction to COVID-19.

“All of this piqued my curiosity, and when we were approached by physicians
about exploring the connection between the kidneys and COVID we jumped at the
chance to use our models to answer this important question.”

When the immune system is responding to a threat, it sends out proteins called
cytokines to communicate with immune cells and trigger inflammation. But the
immune system can sometimes overreact and flood the bloodstream with too many
cytokines, creating a cytokine storm and triggering hyperinflammation. Musah
and her lab wanted to explore whether the virus was directly affecting the
kidneys, or if a cytokine storm was damaging the organs.

Yasmin Roye examines samples

“We used a pseudo-virus to conduct our tests, and we actually showed that the
virus can bind directly to the kidneys,” says Musah. “We then worked with
researchers in the Duke Human Vaccine Institute, and they used our model to
show that the SARS-CoV-2 virus was directly binding to the kidney cells. We
were really excited about having an in-vitro model that was directly relevant
for occasions like this.”

Musah credits the collaborative nature of Duke for her success, especially in
the face of unprecedented global challenges.

“Our platform allows us to answer all of these questions about kidneys and
kidney disease that we haven’t previously been able to explore, and I think
Duke is a wonderful environment to pursue this work because it’s so
collaborative,” says Musah. “We can easily work with researchers in the Human
Vaccine Institute or with virologists and experts in infectious disease
through Duke Health, and this kind of teamwork allows us to tackle a prevalent
and damaging issue like kidney disease head-on.”

Members of the Musah lab pose in an 'M' formation outside

Read additional stories from this issue

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

