

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » Diversity, Equity & Inclusion

# Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community Committee

Building a diverse, equitable and inclusive community

We are a standing, representative body with several functions focused on the
goal of building a diverse, equitable and inclusive community within Duke's
Pratt School of Engineering.

Contact the committee by email at pratt_diversity@duke.edu

This committee:

  * Recognizes the importance of diversity, equity and inclusivity to our
    community
  * Sees diversity, equity, inclusion and community as both processes and
    outcomes
  * Understands that changes must be customized to their community
  * Desires that we all commit to change together
  * Is dedicated to the idea that you are not alone—we are here for one
    another

## Strategic Priorities

Six key priorities have been identified through the insights and feedback from
the DEIC Subcommittees, the school-wide DEIC Survey, and the Pratt 2039
Report, all of which include both short-term and long-term actions and
activities. These six priorities are: Building Community Through Behaviors;
Recruitment and Retention; Equitable Workplace and Professional Development;
Mentoring; Outreach, and Experiential Programs.

The committee will focus its efforts and engage the full Pratt community
around these six priorities, with special attention to two areas identified by
consensus as top priorities: Building Community Through Behaviors and
Recruitment and Retention.

Although the priorities are presented separately, they also overlap and
support one another:

### Building Community Through Behaviors

To support and enhance a welcoming culture and climate that respects everyone
in our community, the revised Duke Code of Conduct will be used as a guide to
behavioral expectations for the Pratt community. This guide includes clearly
defined expected behaviors as well as behaviors of concern. Pratt DEIC will
work on ways to recognize individuals for exemplary behaviors and consequences
for unprofessional behaviors to support a Pratt culture of respect. Resources
for the Pratt community for expressing concerns will be publicly shared,
reports of concerns will be aggregated across platforms, and a high-level
accounting will be shared with the community yearly.

### Recruitment and Retention

Recruitment and retention of a more diverse faculty, staff, and student
community are priorities for Pratt. Best practices across the School and
departments for admissions, matriculation, searches, and hiring, with clear
minimum goals, will be established, shared, and regularly updated based upon
assessment. Pratt will work with and leverage resources across Duke to achieve
our diversity goals. Retention will be supported through review and revision
of existing practices and systems to broaden participation, enhance mentoring,
and increase recognition.

### Equitable Workplace and Professional Development

A workplace that recognizes skilled work and exemplary behaviors, provides
equitable workload and compensation, and offers opportunities for professional
development is key to increasing diversity as well as recruitment and
retention of every member of the Pratt community. Professional development
opportunities, awards, compensation, and support (facilities, flex work) are
examples of how Pratt will respect the needs of our community members.

### Mentoring

A review and revision of mentoring programs and opportunities available to
members of the Pratt community, both in Pratt and at the Duke level, will be
undertaken to assess the effectiveness of these programs (already underway for
undergraduates). A benchmarking review of mentoring programs at other
institutions will be performed, with key findings used to modify Pratt
mentoring programs, and to suggest changes to Duke mentoring programs. It is
anticipated that more formal training will need to be established for mentors
and mentees.

### Outreach

There is a strong desire in the Pratt community to focus on engaging
historically marginalized, underrepresented, and underserved groups in STEM
through outreach efforts. While outreach opportunities exist in the Triangle
region, and many through Duke, how Pratt community members can participate in
these activities is not sufficiently clear. We will focus on outreach
opportunities that encourage collaboration across Pratt and Duke, with an
emphasis on the cities and counties of North Carolina.

### Experiential Programs

The creation of experiential programs is needed to enhance a welcoming climate
and culture in Pratt. Both required and optional experiential programs will be
implemented to enhance intercultural awareness for all members of the Pratt
community, especially for those who are involved with search committees,
recruitment, teaching, and compliance.

Learn more

  * Committee charge »
  * Members and liaisons »
  * How the committee works »

* * *

## Charge

  * Provide ongoing revisions to the strategic plan for diversity, equity, and
    inclusion (DEI) with measurable outcomes as a function of time with a
    rolling five-year plan
  * Help implement the strategic DEI plan
  * Assess the outcomes of the strategic DEI plan yearly
  * Support the efforts of the Director of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion in
    Engineering
  * Serve as a liaison among department chairs, other departmental leaders,
    school leadership and the entire community
  * Serve as a resource for communication between individuals and groups in
    the Pratt community and the Pratt administration
  * Support departments and other groups on actions and programs that build
    diversity, equity, inclusion, and community in the school

* * *

## Co-Chairs

Contact us »

### Nan Jokerst

Associate Dean for Faculty Affairs and Community Engagement

### Karis Boyd-Sinkler

Director of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion for Engineering

## Subcommittee Members

### Faculty

  * Shani Daily (ECE), _Co-Chair_
  * Gregg Trahey (BME), _Co-Chair_
  * Henri Gavin (CEE)
  * Gaby Katul (CEE)
  * Cameron Kim (BME)
  * Steve McClelland (Dean's Office)
  * Guillermo Sapiro (ECE)
  * Becky Simmons (MEMS)
  * Junjie Yao (BME)
  * Stefan Zauscher (MEMS)

### Staff and Post-Doctoral Researchers

  * Philip Duhart (Dean’s Office), _Co-Chair_
  * Angus Bowers (Engineering Master's Programs)
  * Angela Chanh (ECE)
  * Ben Cooke (At-Large)
  * Rhonda Donnelly (CEE)
  * Michael Humphreys (Centers & Institutes)
  * Jennifer Peters (BME)
  * Boran Ma (MEMS Postdoc)
  * Juhi Samal (BME Postdoc)
  * Jeverra Thomas (MEMS)

### Graduate Students

  * Hengming Li (ECE PhD), _Co-Chair_
  * Amanda Breton (MS)
  * Jeet Ghorpade (MEMS MEMP)
  * Upasana Ghosh (BME PhD)
  * Eva Kim (CEE PhD)
  * Ayomide Lamuren (MEng)
  * Shruthee Sankarlinkam (BME MEng)
  * Luisa Piccolo Serafim (MEMS PhD)
  * Angad Singh (MEMP)
  * Cesar Villalobos (BME PhD)
  * Joshua Wu (BME PhD)

### Undergraduate Students

  * Andres Bermudez (BME), _Co-Chair_
  * Sage Hirschfeld (CEE), _Co-Chair_
  * Amari Crittenden (MEMS)
  * Ava Ganeshan (MEMS)
  * Selena Halabi (BME)
  * Senou Kounouho (ECE)
  * Shannuel Lamptey (CEE)
  * Zeqi Sun (BME)
  * Ella Veysel (Undeclared)

## Liaisons

### BME

  * Cameron Kim, _Lead_
  * Andres Bermudez
  * Upasana Ghosh
  * Selena Halabi
  * Jennifer Peters
  * Juhi Samal
  * Shruthee Sankarlinkam
  * Zeqi Sun
  * Gregg Trahey
  * Cesar Villalobos
  * Joshua Wu
  * Junjie Yao

### CEE

  * Rhonda Donnelly
  * Henri Gavin
  * Sage Hirschfeld
  * Gaby Katul
  * Eva Kim
  * Shannuel Lamptey

### ECE

  * Angela Chanh, _Lead_
  * Shani Daily
  * Senou Kounouh
  * Hengming Li
  * Guillermo Sapiro

### MEMS

  * Becky Simmons, _Lead_
  * Amari Crittenden
  * Ava Ganeshan
  * Jeet Ghorpade
  * Boran Ma
  * Luisa Piccolo Serafim
  * Jeverra Thomas
  * Stefan Zauscher

### Dean’s Office

  * Angus Bowers
  * Ben Cooke
  * Philip Duhart
  * Michael Humphreys
  * Steve McClelland

* * *

## How the Committee Works

### Executive Committee

  * Made up of the committee co-chairs, who meet twice each month
  * Meets at least once a semester with student affinity groups, including
    NSBE, SHPE, SWE and oSTEM
  * Meets with Engineering Faculty Council and Engineering Staff Council
  * Hosts a school-wide DEIC Town Hall once each semester

### Subcommittees

  * Representative of departments and units, and of the diversity of faculty,
    staff, post-docs and students
  * Meet twice each month
  * Members serve one to three years, with a six-year limit
  * 75 percent of effort focused on issues diversity, equity and inclusion; 25
    percent on community-building

### Department and Unit Liasions

  * Serve as resource and partners for information, activities and development
    of customized strategic plans
  * Meet at least twice each semester with department/unit leaders and student
    leadership

## Contact Us

Click the button to send an email to the committee:

Send an Email

## Contact

### Nan Jokerst

**Associate Dean, Faculty Affairs and Community Engagement**

919-660-5503

nan.jokerst@duke.edu

### Karis Boyd-Sinkler

**Director of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion in Engineering**

919-660-2939

karis.boydsinkler@duke.edu

### Quiana Tyson

**Assistant Director, DEI Programs and Initiatives**

919-660-5263

quiana.morton@duke.edu

## Duke Resources

### For the Pratt Community

  * Committee on Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
  * Accommodations for Disabilities
  * Resources for Duke Students
  * Maclin Endowment Fund
  * Department DEIC Efforts:
    * Duke Electrical & Computer Engineering (ECE)
    * Duke Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science (MEMS)

  * Duke's Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion
  * Office for Institutional Equity (OIE)
  * Resources for Understanding and Confronting Racism and Its Impact ( _from
    OIE_ )
  * Duke Center for Sexual & Gender Diversity
  * Faculty Academic Council Diversity Task Force Report (PDF)

### To Report a Complaint or Concern

  * Report an Incident

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

