

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » Diversity, Equity & Inclusion

# Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources for Students

Duke University and the Pratt School of Engineering offer many resources to
encourage diversity, equity and inclusion

From school-wide gatherings to professional groups for students traditionally
underrepresented in engineering, you'll find dozens of opportunities to engage
with fellow engineers and make friends across our diverse community.

  * Inclusive activities
  * Membership organizations
  * Calendar of events

* * *

## Inclusive Community Activities

Our community-building experiences include:

### Pratt Chat

Most Friday afternoons, the Duke Engineering graduate student community
gathers on Herrington Engineering Quad to socialize.

### Welcome Wednesdays

At 3:30 pm on the last Wednesday of each month faculty, staff, and students
meet on Herrington Quad to celebrate community and de-stress.

### Duke Athletics Tickets

All Duke students have the opportunity to attend home games, including Duke
Men's and Women's Basketball in Cameron Indoor Stadium.

Graduate and professional students can participate in a campout for a chance
to purchase a men's basketball season ticket card.

### Student Groups

Duke Engineering hosts a wide range of student groups that bring people
together around common interests.

* * *

## Membership Organizations

### For All Students

**Association for Women in Science** **(AWIS)** : Duke is an institutional
member of the Association for Women in Science and individual memberships are
free for Duke students, staff and faculty. AWIS advocates for gender equity
and the advancement of women in STEM fields, and offers professional
development, networking, mentorship, and leadership opportunities. Become a
member of AWIS »

**National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE):** The Duke Society of Black
Engineers focuses on increasing the number of successful Black engineers at
Duke University, and on growing a network among students, alumni and other
undergraduate engineers within the Triangle area. NSBE's mission is to
increase the number of culturally responsible Black engineers who excel
academically, succeed professionally and positively impact the community.

**oSTEM:** The Duke chapter of Out in Science, Technology, Engineering and
Mathematics (oSTEM) is an LGBTQ+ affirming organization that aims to provide
services and support for students in science, technology, engineering, and
mathematics and to create a dynamic network between students and professionals
in industry and academia.

**Out For Undergrad (O4U):** Out for Undergrad is a national professional
development program to help high-performing LGBTQ undergraduate students reach
their full potential. Admitted O4U students take part in professional meetings
produced with industry partners. Applications to join the next O4U annual
class open each March.

**Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE):** The Duke chapter of
SHPE was formed to serve as role models in the Hispanic community. Networking
was the key basis for the organization. Nationally, SHPE enjoys a strong but
independent network of professional and student chapters throughout the
country.

**Society of Women Engineers (SWE):** The Duke Chapter of the Society of Women
Engineers seeks to serve as a center of information on women in engineering at
Duke University; encourage women engineers to attain high levels of education
and professional achievement; and inform young women, their parents,
counselors, and the general public of the qualifications and achievements of
women engineers and the opportunities open to them. Nationally, SWE is a not-
for-profit educational and service organization promoting engineering as a
highly desirable career aspiration for women.

See more student groups at Duke Engineering »

### For Graduate Students

Duke is home to several organizations focused on underrepresented graduate
students in engineering and the sciences. Visit our Graduate Student pages to
learn more, meet some of our current grad students and learn about recruitment
incentives, scholarships, and fellowships available at Duke Engineering.

See diversity resources for graduate students »

* * *

## Diversity & Inclusion Events

Apr 5

### Brown Bag with National Intelligence Officer-in-Residence Andrew Vail

12:00 pm to 1:00 pm Gross Hall Picnic Tables

Presenter: Andrew Vail

Add to calendar »

Apr 13

### Duke Service-Learning Faculty Showcase

3:30 pm to 5:00 pm Rubenstein Library 349

Presenter: Service-Learning Faculty

Add to calendar »

Apr 19

### 2023 Fortin Foundation Bass Connections Showcase

3:30 pm to 6:00 pm Penn Pavilion

Add to calendar »

Apr 25

### Identity & Computing Lecture Series: Identity-Inclusive Courses: A Student
Perspective

5:00 pm to 6:00 pm Virtual

Add to calendar »

May 3

### Brown Bag with National Intelligence Officer-in-Residence Andrew Vail

12:00 pm to 1:00 pm Gross Hall Picnic Tables

Presenter: Andrew Vail

Add to calendar »

View Duke Events Calendar

## Contact

### Nan Jokerst

**Associate Dean, Faculty Affairs and Community Engagement**

919-660-5503

nan.jokerst@duke.edu

### Karis Boyd-Sinkler

**Director of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion in Engineering**

919-660-2939

karis.boydsinkler@duke.edu

### Quiana Tyson

**Assistant Director, DEI Programs and Initiatives**

919-660-5263

quiana.morton@duke.edu

## Duke Resources

### For the Pratt Community

  * Committee on Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
  * Accommodations for Disabilities
  * Resources for Duke Students
  * Maclin Endowment Fund
  * Department DEIC Efforts:
    * Duke Electrical & Computer Engineering (ECE)
    * Duke Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science (MEMS)

  * Duke's Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion
  * Office for Institutional Equity (OIE)
  * Resources for Understanding and Confronting Racism and Its Impact ( _from
    OIE_ )
  * Duke Center for Sexual & Gender Diversity
  * Faculty Academic Council Diversity Task Force Report (PDF)

### To Report a Complaint or Concern

  * Report an Incident

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

