Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Certificates

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Undergraduate
  3. Degrees

### Aerospace Engineering Certificate

The Aerospace Certificate Program at Duke offers a rigorous and in depth
exposure to scientific and engineering fundamentals in the broad set of core
disciplines required in the aerospace field. The program provides
undergraduate students with an understanding of fundamental principles in the
several disciplines including fluid mechanics and aerodynamics, dynamics and
control, structures and materials, thermodynamics and propulsion, plus
specific courses that address specific aerospace technologies for flight and
space vehicles. A number of graduates of Duke's Pratt School of Engineering
have gone onto aerospace careers, either directly entering the aerospace
industry and government workforce, or after attaining advanced graduate
degrees in the field.

### Energy & the Environment Certificate

The Certificate in Energy and the Environment is designed to provide Duke
undergraduates with an understanding of the breadth of issues that confront
our society related to its need for clean, affordable and reliable energy.
Expertise in energy will expand career options in the private, nonprofit,
government and academic sectors. The goal of the certificate is to develop
innovative thinkers and leaders who understand the energy system as a whole
and the important interconnections among policy, markets, technology and the
environment. The program is offered through The Gendell Center for
Engineering, Energy and the Environment, and is co-sponsored by Pratt and the
Nicholas School for the Environment and Earth Sciences.

### Materials Science & Engineering Certificate

The Materials Science & Engineering Certificate gives undergraduates at Duke
an opportunity to learn the scientific and engineering principles related to
the fundamental structures, properties and technological applications of
materials. This expertise gained from faculty teaching from multiple
disciplines will open pathways to a range of challenging careers in
sustainable energy, medical device development and other applications that
require materials with specific or novel properties. Our future depends upon
scientists and engineers with this knowledge to help us find solutions to
critical needs.

## Undergraduate Contacts

### Donald Bliss

Associate Professor and Director of Undergraduate Studies

__919-660-5315

__donald.bliss@duke.edu

### Nico Hotz

Associate Professor of the Practice and Associate Director of Undergraduate
Studies

__919-660-5118

__nico.hotz@duke.edu

### Amy Spaulding

Director of Undergraduate Studies Assistant

__919-660-5310

__amy.spaulding@duke.edu

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

