Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# BSE Degree Planning

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Undergraduate
  3. Degrees

## COURSE Requirements

The Bachelor of Science in Engineering (BSE) degree with a mechanical
engineering major requires the completion of 34 courses:

  * **19 general requirements,** and
  * **15 departmental requirements**

The freshman year course sequence represents the Pratt Common First
Year—enabling all students to fully explore their options before choosing a
major. These courses lay the foundation for advanced engineering courses by
establishing and reinforcing the principles of mathematics, physics,
chemistry, writing and computation.

Core courses for the ME major start in the second year.

Below you can download the ME Undergraduate Handbook and ME Degree Check
Sheet, as well as a flowchart of a typical course sequence outlining degree
requirements by semester.

* * *

## Undergraduate Handbook

The Duke ME Undergraduate Handbook contains additional information specific to
the ME major at Duke that is not found on _mems.duke.edu_.

Download Handbook

* * *

## Check Sheet and FlowcharT

Use the downloadable ME check sheet [PDF] and ME curriculum flow chart [PDF]
to help with course planning and to chart your progress toward your degree.

### Please Note

  * **One regular course** has 2.5 lecture hours per week (3 x 50 min. or 2 x
    75 min.)
  * **One laboratory course** has one two-hour laboratory or recitation time
    per week
  * **Each semester** has 13 weeks of classes, a half-week of reading period,
    and one week of final exams.

* * *

## Duke Degree Enhancements

We strongly encourage students to take advantage of these opportunities:

  * ME/BME Dual Degree
  * Certificates
  * Study Abroad/Global Education
  * Research & Independent Study
  * Graduation with Distinction

* * *

## Course Sequences

  * These plans outline paths to graduation by semester
  * Courses in the lists are required unless otherwise noted
  * These lists also identify prerequisites and corequisites
  * Exercise caution—Pre-plan while working closely with your advisor when
    shifting courses to different semesters

Typical Course Sequence

    

#### First Year

##### Fall Semester

  * Calculus I MATH 111L
  * Chemistry CHEM 101DL
  * Writing 101 or HSS elective **1**
  * EGR 101L Engineering Design

##### Spring Semester

  * Calculus II MATH 112L
  * Physics PHYS 151L
  * Engineering 103L Computational Methods
  * EGR 121L Engineering Innovation

#### Second Year

##### Fall Semester

  * EGR 201L(75L)
  * PHYS 152L(62L)
  * MATH 212(103)
  * Elective **1**

##### Spring Semester

  * EGR 244L(123L)
  * EGR 224L(119L)
  * MATH 216(107)
  * ME 221L(83L) Structure and Properties of Solids or Elective **1**

#### Third Year

##### Fall Semester

  * ME 344L(125L) Control of Dynamic Systems
  * ME 331L(101L) Thermodynamics
  * MATH 353(108)
  * ME 221L(83L) Structure and Properties of Solids or Elective **1**
  * Elective **1**

##### Spring Semester

  * ME 336L(126L) Fluid Mechanics
  * Elective **1**
  * Natural Science elective **3**
  * ME 321L(131L) Structure and Properties of Solids
  * Elective **1**

#### Fourth Year

##### Fall Semester

  * ME 421L(141L) Mechanical Design
  * ME 431L(150L) Heat and Mass Transfer
  * Mechanical Engineering Elective **2**
  * Elective **1**

##### Spring Semester

  * ME 424L(160L) Mechanical Systems Design
  * Mechanical Engineering Elective **2**
  * Elective **1**
  * Elective **1**

#### Typical Sequence Notes

**1** Part of a program of approved electives planned with the student's
faculty advisor to suit individual interests and abilities. Five of these nine
electives must meet the humanities and social sciences requirements of the
Pratt School of Engineering. Also, three of the nine electives must be 100
level or higher, with the exception that engineering courses below the 100
level taken during the freshman or sophomore years may substitute for two of
these 100-level electives. ROTC courses cannot count toward the 100-level
requirement.

**2** Restricted to 100 level or higher.

**3** A list of approved natural science courses can be found in the Duke ME
Undergraduate Handbook.

Study Abroad Course Sequence

    

We strongly encourage students to take advantage of study abroad programs,
whether during the academic year, as shown in the list below, or through
summer immersion programs. Review programs at the Duke Global Education for
Undergraduates website. There are several programs available where students
can take engineering courses in a foreign language as well as general
education courses.

#### Second Year

##### Fall Semester

  * EGR 201L(75L)
  * PHYS 151L(62L)
  * MATH 212(103)
  * Elective

##### Spring Semester

  * EGR 244L(123L)
  * EGR 331L(101L)
  * MATH 216(107)
  * ME 221L (83L)

#### Third Year

##### Fall Semester

  * Abroad
  * Abroad
  * Abroad
  * Abroad

##### Spring Semester

  * EGR 224L (119L)
  * ME 336L(126L) Fluid Mechanics
  * ME 321L(131L) Analysis for Design
  * MATH 353(108)

#### Fourth Year

##### Fall Semester

  * ME 421L(141L) Mechanical Design
  * ME 431L(150L) Heat and Mass Transfer
  * ME 344L(125L) Control of Dynamic Systems
  * Mechanical Engineering Elective **2**
  * Elective **1**

##### Spring Semester

  * ME 424(160L) Mechanical Systems Design
  * Mechanical Engineering Elective **2**
  * Elective **1**
  * Elective **1**
  * Natural Science Elective

#### Study Abroad Sequence Notes

**1** Part of a program of approved electives planned with the student's
faculty advisor to suit individual interests and abilities. Five of these nine
electives must meet the humanities and social sciences requirements of the
Pratt School of Engineering. Also, three of the nine electives must be 100
level or higher, with the exception that engineering courses below the 100
level taken during the freshman or sophomore years may substitute for two of
these 100-level electives. ROTC courses cannot count toward the 100-level
requirement.

**2** Restricted to 100 level or higher.

## Undergraduate Contacts

### Donald Bliss

Associate Professor and Director of Undergraduate Studies

__919-660-5315

__donald.bliss@duke.edu

### Nico Hotz

Associate Professor of the Practice and Associate Director of Undergraduate
Studies

__919-660-5118

__nico.hotz@duke.edu

### Amy Spaulding

Director of Undergraduate Studies Assistant

__919-660-5310

__amy.spaulding@duke.edu

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

