Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# ECE DISTINGUISHED SPEAKER SERIES: Utilizing Geometry and Topology for
Designing On-Chip Chiral Photonic Infrastructure

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About
  3. Events

Feb 11

_This event has passed._

##  Friday, February 11, 2022 – 7:00AM to 8:00AM

## Presenter

Ritesh Agarwal

## Abstract

Spin (SAM, intrinsic) and orbital angular momentum (OAM, extrinsic) degrees of
freedom (DOF) characterize the chiral nature of light. The interplay between
SAM and OAM DOFs has sparked significant interest leading to discovery of new
physics in both classical and quantum optics. These findings and their
potential applications call for the manipulation of not only individual SAM
and OAM scalar states as two separable DOFs, but also the entanglement between
photons in both DOFs enabled by non-separable spin-orbit vectorial states,
enabling their hyperentanglement that can lead to optical links with a higher
channel capacity and enhanced security. To enable this emerging field of
quantum hyperentanglement would require development of miniaturized on-chip
photonic devices for robust generation, transport and detection of entangled
states involving coupled SAM and OAM DOFs. However, this is not an easy task
because most materials and devices are not sensitive to optical chirality. The
development of on-chip chiral photonic devices requires fundamental
investigations and manipulation of momentum space geometry and topology of
materials and their coupling to the environment to engineer specific spin-
orbit interactions to control and detect the vectorial states of light. We
will discuss some recent developments in our laboratory towards the
development of on-chip devices that produce different SAM-OAM states and
photodetectors utilizing topological semimetals that are uniquely sensitive to
SAM-OAM states. The direct transduction of photocurrents mapped to various
SAM-OAM coupled states is engineered via nonlocal light-matter interactions
that cannot be described within the electric-dipole approximation and requires
a theoretical description accounting for the topology of electronic bands and
light (OAM states with topological charge). We will also describe our efforts
towards assembling topological photonic and polaritonic waveguides that can
route signals based on spin (or pseudospin) degree of freedom. Either by
protecting or breaking certain symmetries in (meta)materials, prospects of
designing new photonic materials and devices will be discussed that can enable
the next generation of classical and quantum photonic devices that can encode,
manipulate, transmit and sense information encoded in different SAM-OAM modes
of light.

## Biography

Ritesh Agarwal is a Professor in the Department of Materials Science and
Engineering at the University of Pennsylvania. He earned his undergraduate
degree from the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur in 1996, and a master’s
degree from the University of Chicago. He received his PhD in physical
chemistry from the University of California at Berkeley in 2001 researching
ultrafast liquid and protein solvation and photosynthesis via multiple-pulse
coherent nonlinear optical techniques. After completing his PhD., Ritesh was a
postdoctoral fellow at Harvard where he studied the photonic properties of
semiconductor nanowires. His current research interests include structural,
chemical, optical and electronic properties of low-dimensional systems and
development of new probes to study complex phases of natural and engineered
materials. Ritesh is the recipient of the NSF CAREER award in 2007, NIH
Director’s New Innovator Award in 2010 and the SPIE Nanoengineering Pioneer
Award in 2014. In 2017 he became the director of a Multi-University Research
Initiative on Phase Change Materials for Photonics, leading a team of six PIs
from five universities. He was elected a Fellow of the Optical Society of
America in 2020.

## Zoom LInk:

https://duke.zoom.us/j/91009817192?pwd=TXkvZGthMk5NZk1OYURpRFFPNmlqZz09

## PASSCODE:

493164

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

