Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# ECE Distinguished Speaker Series: Weaving the Next Web with Spatial
Computing

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About
  3. Events

Nov 12

_This event has passed._

##  Friday, November 12, 2021 – 7:00AM to 8:00AM

## Presenter

Anthony Rowe

## Abstract:

Many have predicted the future of the Web to be the integration of Web content
with the real-world through technologies such as augmented reality. This
overlay of virtual content on top of the physical world, called the Spatial
Web (in different contexts AR Cloud, MetaVerse, Digital Twin), holds promise
for dramatically changing the Internet as we see it today, and has broad
applications.

In this talk, I will give a brief background on mixed reality systems and then
present on ARENA, a new Spatial Computing architecture being developed by the
CONIX Research Center (a six-university collaboration funded by the
semiconductor industry and DARPA). The ARENA is a multi-user and multi-
application environment that simplifies the development of mixed reality
applications. It allows cross-platform interaction with 3D content that can be
generated by any number of network-connected agents (human or machine) in
real-time. It is network transparent in that users and data can execute and
migrate seamlessly (and safely) across any number of connected computing
resources that could include edge servers, in-network processing units, or
end-user devices like headsets and mobile phones. I will discuss several
systems designed using ARENA with networked sensors and actuators for
digitizing real-world environments. These projects expose a number of
bottlenecks and future challenges we face when developing more immersive
spatial computing systems.

## Bio:

Anthony Rowe is the Daniel and Karon Walker Siewiorek Professor in the
Electrical and Computer Engineering Department at Carnegie Mellon University.
His research interests are in networked real-time embedded systems with a
focus on wireless communication. His most recent projects have related to
large-scale sensing for critical infrastructure monitoring, indoor
localization, building energy-efficiency and technologies for microgrids. His
past work has led to dozens of hardware and software systems deployed in
industry, five best paper awards and several widely adopted open-source
research platforms. He earned a Ph.D in Electrical and Computer Engineering
from CMU in 2010, received the Lutron Joel and Ruth Spira Excellence in
Teaching Award in 2013, the CMU CIT Early Career Fellowship and the Steven
Ferves Award for Systems Research in 2015 and the Dr. William D. and Nancy W.
Strecker Early Career chair in 2016.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

