Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# ECE Distinguished Speaker Series: Data Science against COVID-19

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About
  3. Events

Oct 8

_This event has passed._

##  Friday, October 8, 2021 – 8:00AM to 9:00AM

## Presenter

Nuria Oliver

## Abstract

In my talk, I will describe the work that I have been doing since March 2020,
leading a multi-disciplinary team of 20+ volunteer scientists working very
closely with the Presidency of the Valencian Government in Spain on 4 large
areas: (1) human mobility modeling; (2) computational epidemiological models
(both metapopulation, individual and LSTM-based models); (3) predictive
models; and (4) citizen surveys via the COVID19impactsurvey with over 600,000
answers worldwide.

I will describe the results that we have produced in each of these areas,
including winning the 500K XPRIZE Pandemic Response Challenge and best paper
award at ECML-PKDD 2021. I will share the lessons learned in this very special
initiative of collaboration between the civil society at large (through the
survey), the scientific community (through the Expert Group) and a public
administration (through the Commissioner at the Presidency level). WIRED
magazine just published an article describing our story.

## Affiliation

Cofounder and Scientific Director of ELLIS (The European Laboratory for
Learning and Intelligent Systems) Unit Alicante Foundation; Chief Data
Scientist at Data-Pop Alliance; Chief Scientific Advisor at the Vodafone
Institute

## Biography

Nuria Oliver is co-founder and vice-president of ELLIS (The European
Laboratory for Learning and Intelligent Systems), co-founder of the Alicante
ELLIS Unit, devoted to research on "Human(ity)-centric Artificial
Intelligence", Chief Data Scientist at Data-Pop Alliance and Chief Scientific
Advisor at the Vodafone Institute. In March 2020, she was named Commissioner
for the President of the Valencian Region on AI Strategy and Data Science to
fight Covid-19. Since then, she has led a team of with 20+ data scientists.
She has also led the ValenciaIA4COVID team, which has recently won the 500k
XPRIZE Pandemic Response Challenge. It’s the first time that a Spanish team
wins an XPRIZE competition.

She has over 25 years of research experience in the areas of human behavior
modeling and prediction from data and human-computer interaction. She has been
a researcher at Microsoft Research (Redmond, WA), the first female Scientific
Director at Telefonica R&D for over 8 years and the first Director of Research
in Data Science at Vodafone globally (2017-2019). Her work in the
computational modeling of human behavior using Artificial Intelligence
techniques, human-computer interaction, mobile computing and Big Data analysis
- especially for the Social Good is well known with over 160 scientific
publications that have received over 20,000 citations and a ten best paper
award nominations and awards. She is co-inventor of over 40 filed patents and
she is a regular keynote speaker at international conferences. Her work has
contributed to the improvement of services, the creation of new services, the
definition of business strategies and the creation of new companies.

Nuria is the only Spanish researcher recognized by the ACM as Distinguished
Scientist (2015) and Fellow (2017) at the same time. She is also a Fellow of
the IEEE (2017) and the European Association for Artificial Intelligence
(2016). She has received an Honorary Doctorate from the Miguel Hernandez
University (2018). Dr. Oliver is the youngest and fourth female member of the
Spanish Royal Academy of Engineering (2018) and an elected member of the
Academia Europaea (2016) and CHI Academy (2018), where she is the only Spanish
scientist. She graduated first of her class in Telecommunications Engineering
from the Universidad Politécnica de Madrid and holds a PhD in Artificial
Intelligence from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).

Twitter: @nuriaoliver

LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/nuriaoliver/

Webpage: https://nuriaoliver.com https://ellisalicante.org

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

