Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# ECE SEMINAR: Understanding the Self-Assembly of CNT Forests

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About
  3. Events

Oct 21

_This event has passed._

##  Friday, October 21, 2022 – 2:00PM to 3:00PM

## Presenter

Matt Maschmann, Associate Professor in the Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering
Department at University of Missouri & Co-Director of the MU Materials Science
and Engineering Institute

Abstract:  
Thirty years after their discovery, carbon nanotubes (CNTs) have not achieved
widespread adoption in engineering applications despite superior mechanical,
thermal, electrical, and optical properties. The technological bottleneck
impeding their implementation resides not with the material itself but in
their reliable, controlled synthesis. Precision control over parameters such
as CNT placement, diameter, chirality, growth rate, and wall structure has yet
to be demonstrated for isolated CNTs or for dense, vertically oriented CNT
films, known as CNT forests. Chemical vapor deposition (CVD) techniques
facilitate the synthesis of CNT forests over large areas; however, the
resulting CNT forest ensemble properties often fall short of those predicted
from volumetric scaling. The reduction is believed to originate from the wavy,
interconnected CNT morphology induced by self-assembly. We seek to understand
CNT forest self-assembly kinetics and mechanics using in-situ SEM CVD
synthesis, complementary numerical simulation, and machine learning tools.
This talk will provide our preliminary results with these tools and an outlook
for their integration to better understand and control the assembly of CNT
forests.  
  
Biography:  
Matt Maschmann is an Associate Professor in the Mechanical & Aerospace
Engineering Department at University of Missouri Department and is co-director
of the MU Materials Science and Engineering Institute, founded in 2022. He is
the recipient of the NSF CAREER award, the Ralph E. Powe Junior Faculty
Enhancement Award, and the University of Missouri College of Engineering
Junior Faculty Excellence in Research Award and Excellence in Teaching Award.
His research has been funded by the NSF, AFOSR, ARO, ARMY ERDC, and ORAU. He
has published 90 journal and conference papers in the fields of
nanomanufacturing, thermal transport, and nanoenergetic material. Prior to
joining the University of Missouri, he was a research engineer at the Air
Force Research Lab and a Senior Thermal Test Engineer at Intel Corporation.  
  
Host: Aaron Franklin  
  
ZOOM LINK:
https://duke.zoom.us/j/95377266101?pwd=YUdDL1dQd3VoSVJTMHVvclkyc3YrQT09  
PASSCODE: 449625

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

