Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# ECE SEMNAR: Hybrid Heating and Cooling Using Thermal Photonic Materials for
Water and Energy Sustainability

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About
  3. Events

Oct 14

_This event has passed._

##  Friday, October 14, 2022 – 2:00PM to 3:00PM

## Presenter

Qiaoqiang Gan, Material Science and Engineering, Physical Science and
Engineering Division, King Abdullah University of Science and Technology

Abstract:  
Innovations in energy and water sustainability are important to address Global
Challenges. For instance, direct solar desalination exhibits considerable
potential for alleviating the global freshwater crisis. In this talk, I will
first go through our recent research efforts to develop inexpensive solar-
driven evaporation architectures using photothermal materials and systems. Its
potential applications for zero-liquid-discharge water treatment using
evaporation ponds will also be discussed. However, if the evaporated moisture
cannot be collected, they can only be considered as a "pollution" to the
atmosphere. As the entropy sink, the cold source is an integral part of a
complete thermodynamic cycle in all heat-producing technologies. The unique
challenge is to obtain coldness from renewable and sustainable sources. In the
second part of this talk, I will discuss our recent efforts on radiative
cooling in water and energy sustainability. In particular, the potential to
recycle atmospheric water using passive cooling technology will be discussed.  
Biography:  
Dr. Qiaoqiang Gan is a Professor in Physical Science and Engineering Division,
KAUST. He received his Bachelor's degree from Fudan University in 2003, his
Master's degree from Chinese Academy of Sciences in 2006, and his PhD degree
from Lehigh University in 2010. His research interests mainly include
nanostructural construction and their applications in biomedical sensing,
energy and environmental sustainability. In particular, his research
activities aimed to bridge the gaps between fundamental investigation,
application development and technology transfer. He has published over 150
research articles in prestigious journals, including Nat. Sustain., Sci. Adv.,
PNAS, Adv. Mater. Phys. Rev. Lett. et al.. He is the Editor-in-Chief of IEEE
J. Selected Topics of Quantum Electronics. He also served as General Chair and
Program Chair for CLEO 2021-2023.  
  
Host: Natalia Litchinitser  
  
ZOOM LINK:
https://duke.zoom.us/j/95865641470?pwd=ZzhWbFNPVGplb3dHb3ZaMWhDaVFTQT09  
PASSCODE: 820993

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

