Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# ECE DISTINGUISHED SPEAKER SERIES: Qubit Mapping and Scheduling for Quantum
Computing: Gap Analysis and Optimal Solutions

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About
  3. Events

Oct 20

_This event has passed._

##  Thursday, October 20, 2022 – 11:00AM to 12:00PM

## Presenter

Jason Cong, UCLA Computer Science Department, Director, Center for Domain-
Specific Computing (CDSC)

**Abstract:**

How does the mapping of logical variables in a quantum algorithm to physical
qubits on a quantum device affect overall performance? As quantum computing
devices continue to scale up, this question of compiling from applications to
quantum devices is becoming very important. In this talk, I focus on our
recent work on the qubit mapping and scheduling step. By constructing a family
of quantum circuits with the known optimal mapping depths, we evaluated
several leading industry and academic qubit mapping tools, including Cirq from
Google, Qiskit from IBM, and t|ket> from Quantinuum. We found their
performance to be surprisingly sub-optimal–by a factor of up to 45x–even on
near-term feasible circuits. This motivated us to develop a tool for optimal
layout synthesis for quantum computing, named OLSQ, based on a general SMT-
based optimization framework. OLSQ more compactly represents the solution
space with exponential reduction in computational complexity, leading to
optimal mapping and scheduling solutions for currently practical quantum
applications. Further speedup of OLSQ is achieved for domain-specific
applications, such as quantum approximate optimization algorithm (QAOA) by
exploiting gate commutation and chemical simulation with optimal swap gate
absorption. At the end, I will discuss the latest progress on optimal qubit
mapping and scheduling on reconfigurable Rydberg atom arrays.

Joint work with my PhD student Bochen Daniel Tan. ****

**Biography:** ****

Jason Cong is the Volgenau Chair for Engineering Excellence Professor at the
UCLA Computer Science Department (and a former department chair), with joint
appointment from the Electrical and Computer Engineering Department. He is the
director of Center for Domain-Specific Computing (CDSC) and the director of
VLSI Architecture, Synthesis, and Technology (VAST) Laboratory. Dr. Cong’s
research interests include novel architectures and compilation for
customizable computing, synthesis of VLSI circuits and systems, and highly
scalable algorithms. He has close to 500 publications in these areas,
including 16 best paper awards, three 10-Year Most Influential Paper Awards,
and three papers inducted to the FPGA and Reconfigurable Computing Hall of
Fame. He and his former students co-founded AutoESL, which developed the most
widely used high-level synthesis tool for FPGAs (renamed to Vivado HLS after
Xilinx’s acquisition). He was elected to an IEEE Fellow in 2000, ACM Fellow in
2008, the National Academy of Engineering in 2017, and the National Academy of
Inventors in 2020. He is the recipient of the 2022 IEEE Robert Noyce Medal for
fundamental contributions to electronic design automation and FPGA design
methods.

**Host:** Yiran Chen & Helen Li

ZOOM LINK:
https://duke.zoom.us/j/96826027021?pwd=ckRzckJEbEV5Z00zVlMyZEJhOVhoZz09  
PASSCODE: 541888

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

