Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# ECE SEMINAR: Rockafellian Functions: The Most Important Concept in
Optimization That You Haven’t Heard Of

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About
  3. Events

Nov 18

_This event has passed._

##  Friday, November 18, 2022 – 2:00PM to 3:00PM

## Presenter

Johannes O. Royset

Abstract:  
Rockafellian functions are central to sensitivity analysis, optimality
conditions, algorithmic developments, and duality theory. They encode an
embedding of an actual problem of interest within a family of problems and
lead to broad insights and computational possibilities. We introduce
Rockafellians and illustrate their application in stochastic optimization and
machine learning, especially to cases with label noise, outliers, and low-
prevalence classes. Through Rockafellian relaxation, we are able to explore a
decision space broadly and discover solutions that remain hidden for more
conservative approaches to decision making under uncertainty such as
distributional robust optimization.  
  
Biography:  
Dr. Johannes O. Royset is a Professor of Operations Research at the Naval
Postgraduate School. His research focuses on formulating and solving
stochastic and deterministic optimization problems arising in data analytics,
sensor management, and reliability engineering. Dr. Royset is the co-inventor
of epi-splines, a functional approximation tool with wide applications in data
fitting and forecasting, and of superquantile regression, second-order
superquantile risk, and buffered probability. He was awarded a National
Research Council postdoctoral fellowship in 2003, a Young Investigator Award
from the Air Force Office of Scientific Research in 2007, and the Barchi Prize
as well as the MOR Journal Award from the Military Operations Research Society
in 2009. He received the Carl E. and Jessie W. Menneken Faculty Award for
Excellence in Scientific Research in 2010 and the Goodeve Medal from the
Operational Research Society in 2019. Dr. Royset was a plenary speaker at the
International Conference on Stochastic Programming (2016), the SIAM Conference
on Uncertainty Quantification (2018), and the INFORMS Conference on Security
(2022). He has a Doctor of Philosophy degree from the University of California
at Berkeley (2002). Dr. Royset has been an associate or guest editor of SIAM
Journal on Optimization, Operations Research, Mathematical Programming,
Journal of Optimization Theory and Applications, Naval Research Logistics,
Journal of Convex Analysis, Set-Valued and Variational Analysis, and
Computational Optimization and Applications. He has published more than 100
papers and two books.  
  
ZOOM LINK:
https://duke.zoom.us/j/94683415961?pwd=azRIMjNQeHhBcUkza3V6bWdsUWxPdz09  
PASSCODE: 736686

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

