Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# ECE SEMINAR: Nonstationary Cooperative Effects in Complex Nanostructures

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About
  3. Events

Oct 28

_This event has passed._

##  Friday, October 28, 2022 – 2:00PM to 3:00PM

## Presenter

Aristide Dogariu, University Trustee Chair and Pegasus Professor at CREOL, the
College of Optics and Photonics, University of Central Florida

Abstract:  
Irrespective of their intrinsic origin, most natural phenomena have scale-
dependent manifestations. The parts affect each other leading to unique
displays of their collective behavior at mesoscopic or macroscopic scales. A
typical example is the result of electromagnetic fields interacting with
inhomogeneous, strongly scattering media.  
It was a long-time belief that, with increasing disorder, the transport of
light gradually slows down and, eventually, comes to a halt corresponding to a
localized state. However, our experiments demonstrate that, in fact, different
stages emerge in this evolution, which cannot be described by conventional
scaling arguments. Strong evanescent-field couplings hinder the localization
of wave resonances and impede the slowing down of diffusion . The emerging
out-of-equilibrium process resembles the diffusion of classical particles in
spatially correlated random potentials and the thermalization of matter waves
due to atomic collisions.  
  
The strong electromagnetic interaction between the discrete scattering
elements leads to nonlocal space-time fingerprints in the emitted radiation. I
will show how, even in nonstationary conditions, the cooperativity of
effective, non-resonant emitters leads to subradiant states that are protected
from inherent disorder. The evolving spatio-temporal properties of radiation
maintain reciprocity and depend on the system's microstructure .  
Aside from fundamental interest, these paradigms could offer means for
controlling the storage and release of energy in random media, for memory or
enhanced coupling applications.  
  
Biography:  
Aristide Dogariu is University Trustee Chair and Pegasus Professor at CREOL,
the College of Optics and Photonics, University of Central Florida. His
research interests include optical physics, electrodynamics, wave propagation,
and complex media. Professor Dogariu is a Fellow of the Optical Society of
America, the Physical Society of America and he is the recipient of the
International Society for Optics and Photonics' G. G. Stokes Award  
  
Host: Natalia Litchinitser  
  
ZOOM LINK:
https://duke.zoom.us/j/95761807526?pwd=UnNlZEdHSmlydldlNHpIMFkzSXp5Zz09  
PASSCODE: 537980

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

