Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# ECE Seminar: Quantum Foundations Meets Causal Inference

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About
  3. Events

Nov 3

_This event has passed._

##  Thursday, November 3, 2022 – 11:00AM to 12:00PM

## Presenter

Robert Spekkens, Senior Faculty Member, Perimeter Institute

Abstract:  
Can the effectiveness of a medical treatment be determined without the expense
of a randomized controlled trial? Can the impact of a new policy be
disentangled from other factors that happen to vary at the same time?
Questions such as these are the purview of the field of causal inference, a
general-purpose science of cause and effect, applicable in domains ranging
from epidemiology to economics. Researchers in this field seek in particular
to find techniques for extracting causal conclusions from statistical data.
Meanwhile, one of the most significant results in the foundations of quantum
theory-Bell's theorem-can also be understood as an attempt to disentangle
correlation and causation. Recently, it has been recognized that Bell's 1964
result is an early foray into the field of causal inference and that the
insights derived from almost 60 years of research on his theorem can
supplement and improve upon state-of-the-art causal inference techniques. In
the other direction, the conceptual framework developed by causal inference
researchers provides a fruitful new perspective on what could possibly count
as a satisfactory causal explanation of the quantum correlations observed in
Bell experiments. Efforts to elaborate upon these connections have led to an
exciting flow of techniques and insights across the disciplinary divide. This
talk will explore what is happening at the intersection of these two fields.  
  
Biography:  
  
Robert Spekkens (PhD University of Toronto, 2001) joined Perimeter's faculty
in 2008, after holding a postdoctoral fellowship at Perimeter and an
International Royal Society Fellowship at the University of Cambridge. He
became a senior faculty member in 2015. His field of research is the
foundations of quantum theory, where he is known for his work on the epistemic
view of quantum states, the principle of noncontextuality, the nature of
causality in a quantum world, and the mathematical framework of resource
theories. Spekkens co-edited the book Quantum Theory: Informational
Foundations and Foils. He was awarded the Birkhoff-von Neumann Prize of the
International Quantum Structures Association in 2008, and won first prize in
the 2012 FQXI Essay contest "Questioning the Foundations: Which of Our
Assumptions Are Wrong?"  
  
Host: Iman Marvian  
  
ZOOM LINK:
https://duke.zoom.us/j/93219074384?pwd=MWtaRis1azYwR0ZJYWwxT0Y3VExtUT09  
PASSCODE: 015545

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

