

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2020

# Duke Interdisciplinary Social Innovators: Developing a Unique Skillset in a
Nontraditional Setting

March 1, 2020 | By Richard Hollenbach

DISI brings together small groups of graduate students who are interested in
creating new solutions for pressing social issues

I kickoff event n school, students spend most of their time working on
homework assignments and projects, which, despite their importance in
reinforcing skills learned in class, usually have no immediate benefit to the
world. In order to truly have an impact on the world outside of the classroom,
students must search for other opportunities to work on engaging and
meaningful projects. Enter DISI.

Duke Interdisciplinary Social Innovators (DISI) brings together small groups
of graduate students who are interested in creating new solutions for pressing
social issues. Each project lasts one semester, during which the students
perform services for various community organizations, such as evaluating the
impact of certain parameters on profit, implementing new tools and
technologies, developing strategic financial plans, and more.

With typically six to ten projects per semester, DISI partnered with
organizations in the fall of 2019, including Child Care Services, Book
Harvest, Safe Haven for Cats and Benevolence Farm. The projects ranged from
database management and data surveys to impact assessment and market research.
At the conclusion of each semester, students share their projects at a
showcase event, and everything starts again the next semester with a new kick-
off event.

Students fill various roles within DISI and collaborate to brainstorm ideas
and turn them into reality. Project Innovators (PI) commit a few hours a week
to support the analysis and implementation of the projects. Innovators bring
in their own technical expertise and work with each other to complete tasks.
Students come from engineering backgrounds at Pratt, public policy backgrounds
at Sanford, or even medical and law backgrounds. The variety of skills and
experiences allows the teams to develop complex solutions for these
challenges. All innovators also attend skill sessions, where they learn about
topics from survey building to project management. Students can choose to
become an innovator for a single semester or for as many as they would like.

Project Innovators provide the predetermined deliverables in a timely fashion
by working with their Project Managers (PMs). These students coordinate the
activities of five innovators while reporting to the director of operations on
the executive board. Managers also work directly with the industry and
community partners, requiring slightly more of a time commitment in comparison
to the innovators. In addition to the normal skill sessions, students in the
management level attend seminars to improve leadership skills. These managers
provide the necessary bridge between the innovators, the executive board and
the community partners, facilitating the success of each project.

In addition to filling these roles on project teams, students can also apply
to be part of the executive board. Over 10 positions are chosen each semester,
including co-presidents, marketing, strategy and operations. The executive
board oversees each project during the semester, plans the kick-off and
showcase events, and hosts skills seminars and training sessions, among other
responsibilities. Students often work their way up the chain of command into
executive board positions through continued participation, but there is no
structured prerequisite to be able to apply for these positions.

Due to the various positions within DISI, effective collaboration and
successful interdependence are critical to the mission of each project.
Throughout the semester, the teams visit their clients to discuss the progress
of their projects. Sometimes, they also complete team-building exercises such
as "Escape the Room."

I wanted to learn about DISI from firsthand experience, so I met and
interviewed its two co-presidents, Charlotte Moore and Nick Williams.

Here is a snapshot of our discussion:

What brought you to DISI?

Charlotte came to DISI due to her desire for community outreach. Nick, on the
other hand, was interested in opportunities to develop skills outside of the
laboratory. Graduate students spend large amounts of time conducting research,
studying textbooks and completing homework assignments, he explained. DISI
offers an opportunity to complete unique and technical projects with community
partners, while improving soft skills and management techniques in the
process. With the semester-long project limit, students can choose which
semesters they participate in DISI, providing a flexibility that is appealing
to graduate students.

Why did you choose to pursue an executive board member position within DISI?

Charlotte and Nick both agreed that serving as executive board members has
provided them with a greater appreciation for the teams' impacts on the
community. While innovators can focus on the details of a particular task for
a specific project, the executive board members get the chance to help put the
pieces together to form the big picture.

What would you like others to know about DISI?

Charlotte mentioned that alumni from DISI go on to earn consulting jobs at
companies as big as McKinsey and Triangle Insights Group. Their time in DISI
provided plenty of skills and experiences to talk about during these job
interviews. Nick added that there is a position for everyone in DISI.
Depending on what you are looking to get out of the experience, there is
plenty of room for growth and development, whether you participate in one
semester or six.

**Richard Hollenbach is a second-year PhD student in mechanical engineering
pursuing a certificate in aerospace engineering and college teaching.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2020

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

