

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2020

# The Future of Data is Genetic Storage

March 1, 2020 | By Ryan Piersma

DNA-based data storage carries one hundred million times more information per
gram than modern disk drives

Could you imagine having your Spotify playlists stored in DNA? If not, then
buckle your seatbelts, because top research scientists in the fields of
genetics and computer science have realized DNA's potential as an efficient
storage mechanism.

The realization of this seemingly science fiction technology opens the
prospect of encoding any and all data, from the government's secret
intelligence to your weekly calendar, into DNA strands. With a theoretical
storage capacity of 215 petabytes of information per gram (where "peta"
represents a mind-boggling 1015), DNA is on track to become the most compact
storage medium ever.

To put things into perspective, the largest hard drives in today's computers
are on the order of 0.001 petabytes, but weigh roughly 500 times as much as
DNA. That makes DNA one hundred million times better than your disk drive in
terms of storage capacity.

The first notable use of DNA as storage was in 1988 for a novelty artistic
collaboration. Avant-garde artist and biological researcher Joe Davis worked
with genetics researchers at Harvard and the University of California to store
35 bits of data encoded into the shape of an ancient Germanic rune via DNA.

Today, researchers at Microsoft and the University of Washington have built
the world's first automated system that can read and write to DNA. The MIT-
based startup CATALOG has reportedly been able to store the entire repository
of English-language Wikipedia pages in a small vial of DNA. Adding to these
impressive achievements is the fact that the storage error rates associated
with these projects is already on par or better than currently mass-produced
means of storage such as hard disk drives or solid-state drives.

However, these astounding breakthroughs haven't come without challenges.
Despite DNA's optimal storage capacity, it has been remarkably hard to take
advantage of its full potential. Researchers are still in the developmental
stage, striving to reach the optimal 1.8 bits of storage per nucleotide.

Naturally, DNA is part of a living organism, so using it as a storage medium
outside of a living system comes with difficulties. In nature, DNA is
continually replicated in living organisms and has a high probability of
eventually mutating in the genome. Interestingly enough, the DNA used in all
of these experiments was completely synthetic and designed to hold information
using codes very dissimilar to those in living organisms.

The cost of DNA storage technology, unfortunately, remains prohibitive. As
long as this remains the case, DNA technology will not be found on the market.
However, researchers around the globe are working to reduce the cost so that
the technology can one day be introduced to the global market.

As a current Duke researcher in the field of computing, the advent of such a
radically new storage mechanism would greatly affect work being done here at
Duke and across the globe. In Professor Benjamin C. Lee's Systems Architecture
Integration Laboratory, where I have performed research over the past couple
years, the research impact of a new storage technology would be enormous.

New research would endeavor to spell out the specific characteristics of how
exactly a DNA drive would be read from and written to, as well as how a DNA
hard drive might integrate with the common components we use for computer
systems today. The prospect of DNA hard drives immediately introduces a
multitude of questions with regards to computer systems: How do we ensure that
data on a DNA hard drive would be kept secure? What is the most effective way
to interface with a DNA hard drive? Can existing mechanisms be properly
adapted to handle communication with one of these drives?

Humanity has entered the information age and is producing data at rates never
seen before in history. New technologies are needed in order to preserve all
of this data. This is the motivation behind gearing up to use DNA as a storage
medium. Although there is currently no way for you to download games to a DNA-
based hard drive, there almost certainly will be in the near future!

**Ryan Piersma is a senior studying electrical engineering and computer
science.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2020

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

