

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2020

# Machine Learning Protecting Human Privacy

March 1, 2020 | By Chloe Derocher

Duke Engineers are pioneering techniques to scan a person’s face while
ignoring certain sensitive features that someone might not want their device
to access

Have you ever wondered just how much information your phone learns about your
identity when you use facial recognition to unlock it? In this era of ever-
advancing technological growth, we see futuristic advances in technology
paired with invasions of privacy. We are left with a difficult decision,
grappling over to what extent we value our privacy over functionality.
Researchers at Duke University are implementing machine learning in an attempt
to solve this dilemma.

Machine learning is a burgeoning area of study that has been applied in many
fields such as self-driving vehicles and personal assistant devices like Siri.
Machine learning is the science of creating mathematical algorithms that allow
computers to "think" and "act" like humans without the need for programming.
Through machine learning, computers utilize data models to perform tasks
solely based upon patterns and learned "reasoning," as opposed to a specific
set of instructions.

In a collaboration within the Rhodes Information Initiative at Duke, Galen
Reeves, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and
statistical science, and Guillermo Sapiro, the James B. Duke Distinguished
Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, tackled the problem of user
privacy within facial recognition software. With their team, including PhD
students Martin Bertran and Natalie Martinez, and Professor Miguel Rodrigues
from University college London, they developed a way for a device to scan a
person's face without recognizing certain sensitive features that someone
wouldn't necessarily want their device to access, such as gender, ethnicity or
emotion.

The group leveraged deep learning and information theory to solve the
challenge of hiding unwanted information, say a person's gender, while still
allowing a phone to recognize the individual trying to access it. In order to
balance this trade off, they created both a "secret" variable (S), to hide
gender, and a "utility" variable (U). These variables combined to give the
observed data.

In the case of gender and facial recognition, these variables are of course
highly dependent on one another. However, a certain mathematical
transformation can preserve U while discarding S, and then input the
remaining, obfuscated data to the device. The team also set up an optimization
function to figure out just how much one could learn about S from observing
the final data. This work was published in the Proceedings of the
International Conference in Machine Learning (ICML '19).

The motivation behind this research comes from a belief that privacy is a
fundamental human right that is increasingly threatened in the digital age.
According to Bertran and Martinez, this important application of machine
learning can "help us preserve some measure of privacy but still allow us to
participate and benefit from 'digital life.'" Instead of looking at worst-case
scenarios in which the person attempting to violate the privacy of others has
access to infinite information and computing resources, they chose a unique
approach, prioritizing both the privacy and utility of an individual user. In
the future, the team wishes to learn more about data sharing between users.
This would aid in developing "a more precise measure of what the user expects
as a utility to cater our algorithms to preserve this with greater fidelity."

Although this work was applied to hiding gender and emotion information, it
provides a baseline for minimizing many kinds of sensitive information
leakage. When asked what inspires their work, Bertran and Martinez replied,
"We believe that privacy is a basic human right and that privacy in the
digital age is rapidly eroding." Their research with machine learning
techniques has taken significant steps toward easing these privacy concerns.

**Chloe Derocher is a first-year undergraduate student planning to major in
biomedical engineering or physics.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2020

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

