

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2018

# Predicting Weather with Big Data

May 18, 2018 | By Jade Grimes

Ana Barros talks about working with big data in environmental fields before
the term even existed and how her work has evolved over the years

While in pursuit of a PhD in ocean engineering, Ana Barros, professor of civil
and environmental engineering, was applying for a NASA fellowship when her
advisor suggested an intriguing idea. The suggestion was that Barros could
"try something on snow," as satellite remote sensing capabilities were
notoriously difficult to use in that field.

Later, her advisor suggested she do another study on mountains and
precipitation in the terrain before leaving Barros's side for a sabbatical in
Australia. After six months, her advisor came back to the United States to
find Barros had a whole model planned out; Barros had essentially started "the
whole rest of (her) life."

"As long as I'm learning, I'm happy," Barros noted, reflecting on the series
of unexpected events that led her into her current field of research.

With consistent research funding provided by the partnership with NASA she
formed in graduate school, Barros started working on the remote sensing of
precipitation in the "days before big data" and before data analysis became a
"hot topic." For example, one of her graduate students discovered a way to use
neural networks and satellite microwave observations to estimate relative
humidity distribution in the atmosphere all the way back in the '90s.

The work, however, received little to no recognition until the late 2000s. It
wasn't until then that, at a NASA Senior Review meeting, a representative
noted that the approach increased the amount of useable data taken from a new,
previously unprofitable satellite from under 20 to over 90 percent.

With early achievements like these, Barros has been a key player in weather
prediction using remote sensors before it even became an area of expertise. "I
really hoped to get the quality of weather prediction to improve, to become
reliable in a way that we can explain the physics and get the right results
for the right reasons," said Barros.

Barros's current research focuses on the fundamentals of hydrometeorology and
climate, specifically precipitation. While we already have climate and weather
prediction models, Barros says, "We don't actually know the fundamental
science to describe the key processes. How does the hint of haze in the
horizon evolve to pouring rain in a few minutes?"

According to Barros, we have basic, conceptual models of how we think weather
and climate processes would work on a large scale, but when compared with the
real world, the model predictions are lacking, especially at the small scales
important for decision-making. "The true processes are highly nonlinear and
work over a very wide range of scales, some six orders of magnitude across,"
says Barros.

True predictability, like being able to predict extreme events like hurricanes
and droughts, is the understanding and application of all steps involved, not
a lone statement of the outcome. It is therefore the gap between our current
theories on weather and the definite laws that Barros hopes to bridge with her
research now and in the future.

To accomplish her goal, Barros's research group does "a little bit of
everything." They observe the weather processes in reality, use remote sensors
to collect data, model the processes, perform simulations and complete a lot
of data analysis. All these facets of her research make it easy for Barros—who
believes that the key to whether or not someone is going to like research is
"getting their hands dirty"—to involve undergraduate as well as graduate
students in her research. One of Barros's large field campaigns in the Great
Smoky and Appalachian mountain systems involved an extensive team of students
who gained valuable fieldwork experience by essentially climbing mountains to
calibrate and retrieve data from isolated sensing instruments.

It's her research in the mountains that Barros implied was her most
interesting work. To make accurate models of weather in mountain ranges, her
research team first needed accurate data. When her group started taking
precipitation measurements, they measured rainfall the way folks usually
do—with a rain gauge. But that proved inadequate.

Many times the record showed that no rainfall was occurring, and the team
thought this was accurate until they purchased disdrometers, which measure
drop size distribution. The disdrometers showed that there were, in fact, a
very large number of drops falling— drops that were not being measured by the
rain gauges.

> “We don’t actually know the fundamental science to describe the key
> processes. How does the hint of haze in the horizon evolve to pouring rain
> in a few minutes?”

The group then acquired another type of radar, one that works by measuring the
radar backscatter signal to find the vertical distribution of precipitation in
the atmosphere, which is how weather stations come up with their multicolored
precipitation forecasts. With this data, Barros inferred that the drops were
getting bigger as they fell toward the ground.

Regionally, you can see these very small drops in the form of hazy deep banks
of fog in mountain valleys. When another system of clouds comes through and
produces a very light rainfall, the drops go through the lower fog and
increase in size. "This type of precipitation, although not generally
accounted for in most weather models, can account for almost 50 percent of the
water cycle at some locations," said Barros. "When you're not measuring this,
you're missing a lot of water that the plants are using and that is keeping
the soil moist, making it difficult to close the water budget."

Elaborating on her research on weather in the mountains, Barros explained a
recent analysis she worked on with Yajuan Duan, a PhD student in her
laboratory. When grouping data taken from a NASA satellite called MODIS each
day over a ten-year period from 2006 to 2016, they noticed that, for the
majority of summer, a Smoky mountain system in the midst of the Tennessee
Valley Authority dams had high concentrations of low-lying clouds form both
above its peaks and also, surprisingly, over the regions on the sides of the
dammed rivers. Wind over the rivers had caused the water particles to shift to
the sides, a process called the lake breeze effect.

"It's not that we didn't know this could happen," Barros notes, "we just
didn't know the scale and persistence of these impacts on regional climate."
When the TVA dams were built, no one truly cared about how they would affect
the climate long-term, and it was before the time that environmental impact
assessment studies were required. In the later parts of the 20th century,
however, people finally began to consider climate change.

"In those days, people would talk about fish because building a dam killed
fish by eliminating river connectivity, so concerned people were building fish
ladders to protect aquatic life," said Barros. "But building a dam also has an
impact on the microclimate, like the low-lying cloud formations on the banks
of the rivers. Then people in the region complain that it gets too foggy, and
vegetables in the winter die because of the humidity and excessive frost."

To truly understand the weather and how water moves from one state and one
energy level to the next, both the macroclimate and microclimate effects of
anthropogenic activities need to be scrutinized. "That's the strong
engineering side of this," said Barros. "Engineers tend to look at complex
systems and put parts together. We approach problems from a more integrated
perspective."

**Jade Grimes, Pratt Class of 2021, hopes to major in civil engineering with a
certificate in architectural engineering.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2018

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

