

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2018

# Engineering at Beaufort

July 6, 2018 | By Daniel Boey

Meet three of the engineers operating on Duke's east coast and learn about how
engineering can be applied to the world's oceans

Based in Beaufort, North Carolina, the Duke University Marine Laboratory puts
engineering expertise to use in the marine environment through research into
coral reefs, oceanic bioacoustics and microbiology. Meet three of the
engineers operating on Duke's east coast and learn about how engineering can
be applied to the world's oceans.

## Professor James Hench: Understanding Coral Reefs

_Professor James Hench is an associate professor of oceanography in the
Nicholas School of the Environment with a secondary appointment in civil and
environmental engineering in the Pratt School of Engineering_

"Corals have to know a lot about hydrodynamics in order to survive. But we are
still trying to unravel their secrets," said Professor Jim Hench. "Coral reefs
occupy less than 0.2 percent of ocean floor and yet contain over 25 percent of
marine species."

Despite their small stature, understanding these underwater ecosystems
requires resolving highly complex fluid dynamics problems created by wave-
driven flows at multiple frequencies interacting with rough coral reef
topography.

To obtain a full understanding of coral reefs and to make accurate predictions
within them, one must be able to solve some form of the Navier-Stokes
equations—a notoriously thorny set of 3-D nonlinear partial differential
equations. These equations remain one the most important open problems in
science and engineering. With regards to this problem, Hench recalls his PhD
board advisor reminding him that "despite [our] inability to solve these
equations, the oceans integrate them daily with ease."

To predict how future changes may affect coral reefs, Hench's lab uses a
combination of new theory derived from first principles and new types of data
to build more predictive models. This creates the need for field measurements
to not only test the model, but also challenge its assumptions.

Professor Hench travels to different coral reefs around the world to gather
the needed data. One of these places is Mo'orea in the Society Island
Archipelago in the South Pacific. While diving among the reefs that surround
the island, his group deploys oceanographic sensors that ground-truth models
built to simulate ocean flow. Some of his future work involves modelling
climate-change-induced extreme wave events.

"Climate change has no playbook," he said, referring to the complexity of
predicting the effects of climate change.

## Professor Douglas Nowacek: Putting an Ear to the Ocean

_Professor Douglas Nowacek is the Repass-Rodgers University Associate
Professor of Conservation Technology in Environment and Engineering_

Professor Nowacek first came to the Duke Marine Lab when he was sponsored by a
grant to conduct research on worms in 1990. After 18 years, he returned as a
professor with a joint appointment at the Nicholas School of the Environment
and the Pratt School of Engineering. Since coming to Beaufort in 2008, his
research has focused on employing engineering principles in marine
environments to study mammal bioacoustics, behavioral ecology and conservation
technology.

Nowacek studies the effects of ocean noise on whale and dolphin acoustic
ecology. "Ocean noise has been increasing by three decibels per year, creating
problems for species that rely on sound for communicating, foraging and
navigation," explained Nowacek.

In August 2015, Nowacek and his colleagues from eight universities and
environmental organizations published their recommendations to minimize the
amount of underwater human noise pollution. To do so, they promoted the
labelling of ocean noise as a pollutant, which has been used by international
bodies like the European Union.

As a professor with joint appointments in engineering and environment, Nowacek
aims to bridge the gap between the two schools. He has been spearheading an
initiative to create opportunities for interdisciplinary work in the field of
ocean engineering—a field fueled by the ever-increasing interests in the
industrialization of the oceans.

"There is a long-term potential for various engineering job avenues, including
marine robotics, offshore energy and shipping," said Nowacek. One of his
current projects is the creation of an oceanic engineering lab at
Beaufort—amakerspace where students design, build and test their prototypes by
the ocean. He hopes this will inspire more Pratt students to take a keen
interest in applying their engineering principles in the marine environment.

## Professor Zackary Johnson: At the Intersection of Marine Ecology and
Biogeochemistry

_Professor Zackary Johnson is an associate professor at the Duke University
Marine Laboratory and earned his_ PhD _from Duke in 2000_

**What is your research at the Marine Lab focused on?**

The Johnson Lab broadly studies the abundance, diversity and activity of
marine microbes. We are biological oceanographers, marine molecular
ecologists, marine microbiologists and biogeochemists. Our research, which is
at the intersection of marine ecology and biogeochemistry, focuses on the
marine cyanobacteria Prochlorococcus—the most abundant phytoplankton in the
open oceans and an excellent model marine microbe—as well as the
biotechnological applications of marine microalgae.

**How does engineering fuel your research?**

As a trained engineer, I use engineering in our research multiple ways. We use
engineering approaches to analyze complexdatasets to tease apart proximal
drivers of the patterns that we see in nature. For both our oceanography and
biotechnology work, we are constantly building things—whether electronic,
structural or involving water—so that we can measure or create conditions to
answer our scientific questions.

**What opportunities do you think there are for engineers in your field of
expertise?**

There are numerous opportunities to build sensors, algae growth systems and to
analyze complex data sets from both engineered and natural systems.

**What are your future research plans?**

We are continuing both our algae bioproduct (sustainable fuels and food) and
microbial oceanography research.

**Daniel Boey is a civil engineering and environmental science & policy double
major from the Class of 2020. He is a certified Emergency Medical Technician,
drone pilot and diver.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2018

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

