

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2018

# Duke Blueprint Pioneers the Ideathon

July 9, 2018 | By Joshua Furth

Event brings energy and fast pace of hackathons to students of all academic
backgrounds to generate blueprints for solutions to the world's most pressing
issues

On February 2-3, the Pratt student group Duke Conservation Tech (DCT) held the
second Duke Blueprint Ideathon. As an "ideathon," Blueprint brings the energy
and extremely fast pace of hackathons to students of all academic backgrounds,
especially those who are intimidated by the technology focus of other events,
to generate blueprints for solutions to the world's most pressing issues.
Blueprint pioneered this concept with the first Blueprint conference in
January 2017 attracting just over 100 attendees.

Now, in its second year, the event was attended by 273 people from around the
country for a weekend of passionate problem solving and rapid prototyping
around some of the planet's most pressing issues. This included experts in
engineering, conservation, biology and medicine. Blueprint's mission is to
bring together people of varied backgrounds to address problems in a new way.
As senior Joshua Furth, ME'18, lead organizer of the ideathons in both 2017
and 2018, describes it, "Putting diverse perspectives in such proximity drives
valuable insights, ideas and awareness. We believe this context leads to the
most effective win-win solutions."

Blueprint 2018 was themed "Nature + Progress" and focused on reconciling the
natural world with the inevitability of human progress. DCT brought 36 expert
mentors and speakers from organizations such as National Geographic, World
Wildlife Fund, Duke Cancer Institute and dozens more to work with and mentor
the 21 student teams that participated in the weekend.

During the event, Alex Dehgan, CEO of ConservationXLabs and The Chanler
Innovator in Residence at Duke, described his experience at Blueprint by
saying, "My experience here has been amazing, the amount of energy, the amount
of creativity, the ideas people have had here at Blueprint are incredible. And
they make me, in one word, optimistic about the future of our ability to solve
the wicked challenges of conservation."

While the experience of Blueprint was fulfilling for the mentors, their
presence was also a unique opportunity for students. As one participant,
Gaurav Uppal, pointed out, "Blueprint allowed us to interact with faculty and
experts with whom we would not have the chance to connect in any other way."

Blueprint 2018 was supported by a total of 32 academic, corporate and non-
profit institutions. This widespread support included Duke's Pratt School of
Engineering and Nicholas School of the Environment, the World Wildlife
Federation, and Delta Air Lines, which served as the official airline of
Blueprint, donating flights for the mentors. A full list of Blueprint's 2018
sponsors can be found at dukeblueprint.com.

Duke Conservation Tech was founded by mechanical engineering students Sam
Kelly and Connor Guest in 2015. Since then the group has expanded to take on
numerous projects including low-cost, open-source animal tracking
technologies, drones to counter poaching and fishing nets that prevent sea
turtle bycatch. The Blueprint events have helped DCT to expand awareness of
their work, recruit numerous new members and develop ideas for ongoing
projects.

"ScareHive," a project initially conceived by a team at the first Blueprint
conference in 2017, has continued on to active prototyping with DCT's support.
The project, a low-cost, gravity-powered device to protect rural crops from
elephant stampedes by replicating the sound of swarming bees, was even fielded
in South Africa last summer with the support and guidance of one of
Blueprint's sponsors, the US Army Research Office.

Similarly, the winning team from the 2018 conference, "Algenie," has already
begun working with ConservationXLabs, another Blueprint partner, to further
refine and prototype their concept. Algenie's concept involves modular algae
and a bivalve farm that encourages biodiversity and captures greenhouse gases,
allowing commercial algae to be grown in three dimensions, rather than just
across the surface of the water. Their goal is to design a farm that allows
for quick and efficient production of algae and seaweed. This will
simultaneously serve as feed for cows to reduce methane production and as a
basis for superfoods.

Josh Furth summed up the weekend by saying, "I am extremely proud of the
successes of this year's Duke Blueprint conference! It was a pleasure to host
a group of such energetic and creative problem solvers. The atmosphere at the
event was electrifying and contagious. We cannot thank all who participated
and supported the event enough, and we hope everyone left with a sense of
pride in the incredible blueprints they created!"

While Josh will be graduating in May, plans for Blueprint 2019 are already
underway with dates to be announced shortly. Next year, Blueprint will not
only take place at Duke. Under the leadership and guidance of the Duke team,
Blueprint's model for creative problem solving and a high-energy, fast-paced
event will make its way to a number of other universities across the United
States working on planning their own Blueprint events.

Readers can learn more about DCT's ongoing work at their website:
dukeconservationtech.com.

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2018

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

