

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2018

# The Face of a Department

May 16, 2018 | By Ryan Piersma

Krishnendu Chakrabarty is the newest chair of Duke's Department of Electrical
and Computer Engineering

Krishnendu Chakrabarty, the William H. Younger Distinguished Professor of
Engineering and professor of computer science, has been at Duke since 1998. He
has performed groundbreaking research in integrated circuit testing and
digital microfluidics, among many other areas in electrical and computer
engineering, receiving a multitude of honors and awards. Recently, he was
appointed as the chair for Duke's Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering (ECE).

Chakrabarty's office is a modernistic, minimalist space outfitted with a large
desktop computer, a few slanted shelves displaying various engineering
textbooks and a small table for visitors. So what journey could have led him
to this office? As a young boy in India, Chakrabarty aspired to attend one of
the five original prestigious Indian Institutes of Technology. After years of
hard work, he gained admission to the Indian Institute of Technology at
Kharagpur and proceeded to discover the field of electrical and computer
engineering just as the internet revolution was occurring.

The revolution brought along never-before-seen innovations such as the World
Wide Web in parallel with stunning hardware advancements in microprocessors.
"I was hooked, a lot of it because of the times," he said.

With new technologies only spurring him onward in his passion for computer
science and engineering, Chakrabarty attended graduate school at the
University of Michigan, and after a brief appointment at Boston University, he
became a professor at Duke in 1998. Now, Chakrabarty has a grand vision for
Duke's Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering.

"Primarily, I would like ECE to be well-known outside [of Duke]," said
Chakrabarty. "We have done really well with the faculty who have come in the
last 10 years." Chakrabarty continues by saying he wants to ensure that the
department is associated with excellence around the world and plans to
implement this in many ways.

One of his main points is that in today's world, research is becoming
increasingly collaborative between many fields, and therefore the department
must branch out and form interdisciplinary ties within and outside of Duke. He
is quick to point out that the modern direction of research fosters
collaboration even with fields formerly considered to be totally unrelated to
electrical engineering, like the relationship between sociology and the
development of social networking.

To further this goal, Chakrabarty plans to form research teams that weave
across different specialties within the department. He offers practical
examples of current research into the Internet of Things, robotics and medical
devices such as pacemakers. In all aspects, Chakrabarty seems the perfect
representative of Duke ECE, bringing together a passion for the field with the
desire to continually improve the department that he is now in charge of.

Exemplifying this, when asked how the department can assist in solving the
National Academy of Engineering's 14 "Grand Challenges for Engineering," he
immediately grabbed his laptop and proceeded to explain how ECE can help solve
the problems posed, which include such vast tasks as "securing cyberspace,"
"engineering the tools of scientific discovery," and "advancing personal
learning." Chakrabarty is instantly able to pinpoint how the workings of ECE
pertain to solving issues in the real world.

> “At Duke I have learned that you have to take risks. The payoff is much
> higher.”

To Chakrabarty, being the department chair means advocating for the faculty,
including their research and advancement within the university, as well as
strengthening the relevance of the department to the structure of the Pratt
School of Engineering, Duke University and the world in general. He also
states that an important priority of his new role is "providing the best
training to all students" by continually improving the curriculum that
students are presented with.

Lastly, Chakrabarty says that he is the external face of ECE, acknowledging
his position as another way for him to lead by example. He knows that a large
portion of this new task is to be somebody that the students of the
department, the engineering school and the entire university can all look up
to. All indications from the renowned professor say that Chakrabarty will be
able to accomplish these things and more, as he demonstrates an encyclopedic
knowledge of his departmental colleagues' research, an obvious commitment to
undergraduate education and a willingness to teach.

Chakrabarty has developed a strong bond with Duke. He cites Duke's "culture of
excellence" and characteristic academic freedom as major assets to the Duke
experience, saying, "The pathway that you choose is your own, but Duke expects
you to be the best in what you do." He also acknowledges the undergraduates
that he encounters throughout Duke as having an ability to "keep him and his
mind young."

Chakrabarty also enjoys Duke's ability to cultivate the most out of new
faculty members, saying that the intensive manner in which new engineering
professors are selected breeds these new faculty members to be immediately
successful. He notes that since he has been here, the Pratt School of
Engineering has only grown, doubling in number of faculty. It is clear to
everyone around him that he wishes to be an agent of this expansion in his new
role as the department chair.

When asked as to the advice that he would give to current undergraduate
students, Chakrabarty's response was manifold. Citing his own personal
experiences during his undergraduate education, he advised that students
"learn for a long time" rather than learn for exams and hone skills in asking
questions. He explained that this is an essential skill for conducting
research and solving corporate issues alike. He also emphasized the ability to
work in teams, a rapidly emerging requirement for engineers worldwide, and the
ability to "multiplex"—that is, to pursue many avenues of learning and
experience, rather than remaining "unidimensional."

As a final note, Chakrabarty advises, "At Duke I have learned that you have to
take risks. The payoff is much higher." Now it is Duke's turn to witness the
improvements that Chakrabarty will inevitably implement from his well-deserved
position at the head of Duke's Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering.

**Ryan Piersma is a sophomore in the Pratt School of Engineering, double
majoring in electrical engineering and computer science.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2018

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

