

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2018

# Duke Engineering Design Class and Pod

May 29, 2018 | By Ryan Kempf

A new first-year student experience is catching positive reviews from its
first semesters

In the fall of 2017, the Pratt School of Engineering debuted a new course for
first-year students centered on a handson approach to the engineering design
process. The course, led by Ann Saterbak, professor of the practice of
biomedical engineering, and Sophia Santillan, assistant professor of the
practice of mechanical engineering and materials science, aims to introduce
first-year students to problem-solving and design-based engineering at the
beginning of their Duke career.

The class emphasizes community-based applications of engineering, something
absent in most older Duke design courses. The new design course expands on the
ideas of existing courses within the first-year engineering curriculum, such
as the Engineering Innovation class in mechanical engineering and the
Engineering the Planet class in civil and environmental engineering.

To accommodate the new course, Saterbak oversaw the conversion of The Jinny
and Ed Pratt Commons in the Levine Science Research Center into a
5,000-squarefoot design space, now known as the Duke Engineering Design Pod.
To help the course achieve its ambitious goals, the Design Pod was outfitted
with workbenches, rapid prototyping machines such as laser cutters and 3-D
printers, and various other power and hand tools that allow first-year
students to gain knowledge about the engineering design process.

With these resources at hand, students are able to quickly design, prototype,
test, redesign and implement their ideas, all within the Pod. One of the
things the students have enjoyed the most so far is that they are never
limited by their resources. Many of the tools that are available to them are
things that previous first-year students were unable to easily access.

The students in the course formed semester- long project teams, working week
in and week out with the same team members. The experience teaches the
students a lesson about how engineering works in the real world, something
that is vastly different from the lecture- and laboratory-based learning of
most introductory engineering classes.

Freshman Mary Gooneratne (E'21), one of the 50 first-year students in the
course, said, "Learning engineering concepts through the completion of a
project offers a sneak peek into what a career in engineering could actually
look like, which is not only enjoyable and fun, but can be insightful for
freshmen unsure if they want to pursue engineering."

The new course is open to any first-year engineering student, regardless of
whether they have a particular major in mind yet, allowing students to work
with other students whose interests differ from their own. These
interdisciplinary teams are important to Saterbak and Santillan.

Other Duke faculty members have augmented the leadership of Saterbak and
Santillan and have been a valuable tool for the course in its early stages.
Each project team is assigned a "technical mentor"—a faculty member with
expertise related to that particular project.

"I'm so thankful that so many of my colleagues have volunteered their time and
effort by meeting with students regularly and offering guidance and feedback,"
said Santillan. She believes that the students are benefitting immensely from
getting to know various faculty members at Duke and gaining exposure to deeper
levels of Pratt than typical first-year students.

Because this is the inaugural semester of the course, Saterbak and Santillan
have been careful to make note of successes and possible improvements to the
curriculum and course. The end goal is to expand the course as it gains
traction in the first-year engineering community.

"I think that, just like for any other class, we can learn from the parts that
have worked well and the parts that could go better to make the class better
in future semesters," said Santillan. "Professor Saterbak and I are collecting
feedback from all of the involved groups—faculty, TAs and students—to see what
we can do in the next iteration of the course to make sure it's a meaningful,
inspiring, and effective course!"

While the engineering community's response to the new Design Pod has been
positive, the introduction of the design class and Design Pod caused mixed
reactions for some. The location of the Design Pod used to be home to the Blue
Express Cafe. Many students were surprised to see the removal of this popular
place to get food. Economics student Alex Mao (T'20) was especially sad to see
the cafe go.

> "Professor Saterbak and I are collecting feedback from all of the involved
> groups—faculty, TAs and students—to see what we can do in the next iteration
> of the course to make sure it's a meaningful, inspiring, and effective
> course!"

"When I got back to school and saw that Blue Express was gone, I was pretty
disappointed. It was my favorite spot for lunch whenever I had class in the
LSRC. The Design Pod did look really cool from what I saw though, so I'm glad
to see that the space is being put to good use," said Mao.

Upperclassmen engineering students were disappointed that they didn't have the
same opportunity to take the class as freshmen. Mechanical engineering student
Jake Morris (E'20) wished the class debuted sooner.

"I took the Computational Methods course during my first semester, the one all
engineering students at Duke take," said Morris. "While I enjoyed that class,
I would've loved to have the opportunity to take the new class alongside it.
Solving challenges for the community and implementing design-based solutions
would've been a great way to gain quick engineering experience at when I first
got to Duke."

Overall, the new course is on the right track. Students are eager to learn
about the engineering design process and have been willing to try new things
and break out of their comfort zones, and Saterbak and Santillan are now
looking to continue the momentum of the class in future semesters.

When asked whether she would recommend the design class to future first-year
students, Gooneratne responded, "I would absolutely recommend the course to
other first-years! It's definitely solidified my decision to go into
engineering."

**Ryan Kempf is a sophomore pursuing a mechanical engineering major and
finance minor.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2018

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

