

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2018

# Advancing Medicine through Stem Cell Research

May 25, 2018 | By Meredith Outlaw

Shyni Varghese joins the Duke Engineering faculty, splitting her time between
medicine and engineering while seeking to impact the medical world

New faculty member Shyni Varghese is pioneering the future of medicine. Coming
to Duke this past summer from the University of California at San Diego,
Varghese holds a triple appointment in the Departments of Biomedical
Engineering, Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science, and Orthopaedic
Surgery. Her PhD is in polymer science, and she completed her post-doc in
tissue engineering and stem cells.

When asked what brought her to Duke, she said she liked that her appointment
is 50 percent medicine and 50 percent engineering. She works directly with
clinicians and enjoys seeing the impact that her research has on the medical
world. Varghese was named the first MEDx Investigator by Duke's MEDx
initiative, which fosters partnerships and interdisciplinary research between
the School of Medicine and the Pratt School of Engineering.

Varghese's research focuses on musculoskeletal tissue repair, organ-on-a-chip
technology and disease biophysics. The basis for her research centers around
stem cells. Varghese compares the development of a stem cell to that of a
child.

"For a kid to grow the way you want the kid to grow, you need to provide a
nurturing environment or nurturing surroundings," said Varghese. "So like, 'Go
to school, do this, get up in the morning,' so on and so forth. The stem cells
are like that. They don't know much, so they just receive the signals or
directions from the surroundings and become what the surroundings ask them to
be."

The idea in her lab is if stem cells are so versatile, then they should be
able to treat different diseases based on input from the environment. By
giving the cells certain signals, the researchers can guide them toward
becoming functionally similar to heart or liver cells, for example.

Stem cells are responsible for repair in the human body. While they are
helpful in this sense as well as having the potential to treat disease, they
can also become detrimental and lead to disease, such as cancer or fibrosis.
The Varghese lab seeks to understand how the same signals which move the stem
cells toward repair can at the same time contribute to disease. She explained,
"If we understand the onset of disease and its progression, then we might be
able to develop preventive therapies, rather than just treating it after it
happens."

One area of research in Varghese's lab is an emerging technology called organ-
on-a-chip, or tissue-on-a-chip. This experimental model consists of human
tissues formed from stem cells embedded within a microfluidics device—or
"chip"—about the size of a penny. The tissues on the chip can model human
organs, such as the heart or liver.

This technology allows the researchers to study how the heart forms, for
example, and to test drugs on human tissue instead of on animals. Not only
does this save the lives of lab mice, but it also makes for a more accurate
model. When drug screening is performed on animals, it may not work when
translated onto humans.

Organ-on-a-chip is not only human-specific, but can be further personalized to
a patient's genetic makeup, since not every drug works for every person. This
personalization allows for the development of a predictive system in which
scientists can determine which drugs are more likely to work for people with
certain characteristics. Tissue-on-a-chip has many applications, including
cancer-on-a-chip, where researchers can study how cancer cells interact with
other cells.

Another area of interest Varghese's lab studies is known as the biophysics of
disease. This sector of research focuses on two diseases—cancer and fibrosis.
On the subject of cancer, the researchers are examining metastasis, or what
factors cause cancer cells to move from a primary site to a different,
secondary site. They want to know whether the movement of the cancer cells is
random or if something drives them to move.

Varghese's team is also looking at how fibrosis, or scarring, can be
prevented. Whenever there is scarring, the tissue is thicker at the site due
to a buildup of protein deposits. Examining the proteins can provide clues as
to how the pathology of fibrosis can be reversed.

In a recent mouse study of skin fibrosis, the researchers identified a never-
before-seen molecule that contributes to the fibrosis. By targeting this
molecule, they were able to reverse the disease phenotype in mice. Now, they
are looking into how that discovery could apply to humans.

Varghese's research also looks at musculoskeletal tissue repair. There are two
possibilities in this area. One is to take stem cells, differentiate them and
transplant them into the patient for repair. The other, more preferable,
option is to activate the patient's own cells.

Activating a patient's own cells to contribute to tissue repair is cost-
effective, easy to implement, reduces treatment time and has the potential to
be widely accessible. Varghese is a firm believer that the therapies developed
in her lab should be accessible to everyone and able to empower everyone.

"I think if you are born as a human being, you should have the resources to
live a happy life," said Varghese. "It doesn't matter if you're rich or poor,
you should have access to food, health, education and so on. I believe that
everyone is equal and everyone should get an opportunity.

"If I can figure out a way to inject you with something and then that repairs
your bone tissue or your skeletal muscle, then it doesn't matter if you are in
Africa or in the U.S., you should be able to get that therapy," she continued.
"I'm in a privileged place. If I don't think about [making these treatments
accessible to everyone], then as a human being, I don't think I bring any
value to the world."

**Meredith Outlaw is a Master of Engineering student in mechanical
engineering.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2018

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

