

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2018

# Duke's New Reality

July 2, 2018 | By Samuel Lester

With Duke now featuring four locations for virtual reality, the Duke community
can enter worlds never before imaginable

_What is real? Is it what we see? With virtual reality, that answer is a
completely new one, especially at Duke. Home now to four locations, the DiVE,
Bolt VR, TEC VR and the Multimedia Project Studio, the Duke community can
enter worlds never before imaginable. Follow below as we explore what each of
these virtual reality experiences has to offer._

## The DiVE

Since 2005, the Duke immersive Virtual Environment, also known as the DiVE,
has been a large-scale virtual reality (VR) facility. Users explore VR in a
box-like display where they walk into a completely enclosed cube with screens
projected onto each of the six faces. With users wearing special glasses, the
system projects a different image for each eye to trick the mind into seeing
an illusion of depth.

This principle is called stereoscopic vision. The projected display shows each
eye a specific image of the environment from the individual eye's perspective,
causing the brain to merge both images into a single picture that contains
depth information. This is similar to the experience of a 3-D movie.

As opposed to 3-D movies, however, the DiVE allows users to interact with the
virtual environment through the use of motion tracking sensors. A sensor is
placed on the user's glasses to track the head position and another one is
placed in the hand controller. The system then renders motion from the user's
point of view as they travel the virtual environment, and the hand controller
allows the user to perform actions such as picking up objects or flying
through the environment.

Those user interactions require advanced technology to run smoothly. The DiVE
system has recently upgraded its six render nodes—intricate computers that
each now have an i7 processor, 64 GB of RAM and one Nvidia Quadro K6000
graphics cards that enable the display of highly complex graphics— and a
master node that manages the other six. This level of computational power
allows for graphics to be displayed in real time, providing highly realistic
immersive experiences.

Regis Kopper, assistant research professor of mechanical engineering and
materials science and director of the DiVE, says virtual reality is extremely
versatile. There have been humanities classes that have taken tours through
ancient buildings, simulations of archeological dig sites, an Olympic trap-
shooting simulator that teaches marksmanship while the brain is analyzed by an
EEG system, and other environments that deal with complex interaction
techniques designed and evaluated in the DiVE. And that barely scratches the
surface of the fun the DiVE has had in its more than a decade of existence.

There is also much research being conducted in the DiVE to develop training
programs for professions that allow for consistent yet risk-free scenarios,
one of the main advantages of virtual reality. Applications in public
services, education, therapy, design, manufacturing and health care are
boundless in VR, and the DiVE serves as a resource for the Duke community to
wander deliberately in worlds already created and yet to be made.

There are many courses that Duke students can take that make use of the DiVE.
At the undergraduate level, David Zielinski teaches ISS 320: Introduction to
User Interface Design in Unity 3-D in the fall, which helps students with
little technical and programming background to develop skills necessary to
build virtual reality applications. At the graduate level, Kopper teaches ME
555.07: Virtual Reality Systems Research and Design in the spring, which gives
an overview of the stateof- the-art research in virtual reality and involves a
semester-long research project. Much can be done, no matter your experience,
to experience the best of virtual reality.

## Bolt & TEC VR

Adding to the accessibility, the Bolt VR and the newly built TEC VR spaces
offer a theater where students and faculty can dabble in virtual reality. More
than sixty VR titles are in each space that bring new worlds and new
experiences where you are directly in the thick of it.

The immersion is done with an HTC Vive Headset and associated controllers. To
keep track of your movements in the 10'x10' space, sensors shoot out a
volumetric stream of infrared lasers to keep track of the positional
orientation and acceleration of the headset and the controllers. For the
visual immersion, the level of data streaming to and from the computer is
massive due to the two lenses in the headset. Each lens has a resolution of
1080x1200, meaning each eye takes about 90-95 percent of the horsepower that
gaming on a normal monitor takes, which makes VR impossible to run on subpar
tech.

According to Mark Everett Papa McGill, the manager of these spaces, "In order
to have a high-quality visual experience, the system needs to run at 90 frames
per second at all times. Any drop below that results in an unpleasant, non-
immersive experience. If you've tried VR and didn't like it, you probably had
a bad setup." McGill continues by talking about how the Bolt and TEC VR spaces
are built to take on the toughest, longest gaming sessions to "give you
virtual reality at a consumer level but at its best."

The difference between the Bolt VR and the TEC VR spaces is that the TEC VR
space has an educational component rather than just an entertainment focus, as
the Bolt VR does. TEC VR is also equipped with additional capabilities,
specifically a green screen to help in hosting VR events.

In the near future, there will be a faculty reservation process along with
trained staff to allow instructors to craft ways to help students learn
conceptually difficult topics via a virtual environment. Two games worth
mentioning are Organon, which takes users on a detailed, virtual tour through
the human anatomy, and Titans of Space 2.0, which provides a gorgeous trip
through our cosmos fit for any stargazer. This showcases how applicable this
tool can be for any area of knowledge.

## Multimedia Project Studio

The Multimedia Project Studio (MPS) located in Perkins Library next to the
Link is one last place to find virtual reality. Designed for the Duke
community to craft, edit and finalize any form of media, this space recently
added an Oculus Rift for constructing virtual reality, adding another avenue
for students and faculty to create and innovate.

The core software running the space are AutoDesk, Blackmagic Fusion, DAZ 3D,
Maya, Unity and Unreal Engine. And with that level of software comes a steep
learning curve. The space has trained instructors, however, to help get you
started. Chip Bobbert, director of the MPS, says, "It is a grand experiment
for us," and looks forward to seeing what the Duke community does with this
powerful and sophisticated technology.

To help with that learning curve, Devils Cross Reality (DXR) is a new student
organization that uses all forms of virtual reality at Duke and strives to
teach and expose students to what VR can do, no matter their background or
skill level. The club was founded by Mark Steelman, a junior DiVE researcher
who has made it his mission to create a VR community that brings students and
faculty together to learn and explore the ways VR can benefit Duke.

"It's hard to talk and understand VR unless you've tried it," remarked
Steelman. "Virtual reality is still very much in the R&D stage and there isn't
much education for it. This group was made for teaching each other together
and enjoying the vastness of VR."

The club plans on hosting larger public events that provide opportunities not
offered at the existing outlets for VR, such as presentations from industry
professionals, demos of applications under development and career-building
opportunities.

## So What Is Reality?

At Duke, it is not a matter of what is seen; it is what you can do that is
real, and with virtual reality being an accessible, limitless and mind-blowing
tool, there is only time in our way before we create worlds to help this one.
With this combination of the DiVE, Bolt VR, TEC VR and the Multimedia Project
Studio, there is nothing virtual about the reality Duke can make.

**Samuel Lester is a sophomore pursuing a degree in mechanical engineering.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2018

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

