

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Undergraduate » Undergraduate Research » Pratt Research Fellows

# Becca Lau: Pandemic Pivot Enables Materials Science for Future Nanomaterials

When the global pandemic forced then-sophomore Becca Lau home from studying
abroad, little did she know that this initially disappointing pivot to remote
learning would open an entirely new side of engineering research for her, and
a pathway to a PhD program

Lau, who was all set to take in-person and focus on the mechanical and energy
engineering aspect of her degree program with an internship at a German
renewable energy company, returned to the U.S. in search of a remote option to
replace the internship.

The pivot point in March 2020 was her bold email—without a prior
introduction—to Volker Blum, an associate professor of mechanical engineering
and materials science, asking for a remote research opportunity.

"The Pratt Research Fellowship was huge for me with regards to pursuing a PhD.
Being able to work closely with an established faculty member in materials
science really made me enjoy the subject and appreciate the concepts beyond
what any class could,” Lau said. “My experience as a Pratt Fellow also made me
realize that research is something I see in my future because it’s a never-
ending chase of trying to make sense of the world around you.

> “I see climate change happening. As an engineer, I want to fix things and
> make the world better."
>
> **Becca Lau** **'22** | Pratt Research Fellow & NAE Grand Challenges Scholar  
>

“I actually became more computationally focused because of the pandemic, and
it worked out for the best because now I’m really interested in learning the
smaller details and learning what calculations go behind the research. I could
observe how the concepts I learned throughout my courses applied to understand
something seemingly unrelated—nanostructures. What's happening in the
simulation, and how can we interpret these results? And it's neat because I
get really excited when my calculations match experimental results, and you
see this validation that happens on both sides.”

Lau is referring to her work with the HybriD3 database and with computational
materials science for nanomaterials engineering in Volker Blum’s group.

“Coincidentally, he's from Germany. So, the first time we talked, halfway into
the conversation, when I mentioned I was sent home from the Duke in Berlin for
Engineers Program, he switched to speaking in German, and so did I,” said Lau,
who is fluent in the language.

Both a Katsouleas National Academy of Engineering Grand Challenge Scholar (NAE
GCS) and a Pratt Research Fellow, Becca Lau is graduating with distinction and
magna cum laude with double majors in mechanical engineering and German and a
minor in energy engineering.

She has stuffed her proverbial backpack with about as many achievements and
experiences an undergraduate possibly can. In addition to her excellent
classroom and undergraduate research performance, she has lead student clubs
and played saxophone with the Duke University Marching Band at the Sweet
Sixteen and Elite Eight rounds in San Francisco and the Final Four round in
New Orleans of the NCAA Men's Basketball Tournament.

“We set up a mini-Perkins [library] in the lobby of the hotel in San Francisco
and did our schoolwork together when we were not practicing or playing at the
games,” she said, adding that the band still found time to rent bicycles and
ride across the Golden Gate Bridge.

“She's an astounding student. She does a lot of things at the same time, and
she gets a large number of things done,” said Blum, who was both her GCS and
Pratt Research Fellowship advisor. “And she's optimistic. She's a fantastic
team player and a fantastic team leader.”

The GCS program wraps around an undergraduate’s entire undergraduate
engineering experience by requiring many components all tied to one of the 14
Grand Challenges that the NAE has identified as necessary to address “to
achieve a sustainable, economically robust, and politically stable future for
our children and children’s children.” Lau chose “Restore and Improve Urban
Infrastructure” as her theme and completed a Pratt Research Fellowship to
fulfill the independent research requirement.

“I am passionate about improving modern infrastructure—particularly, energy
infrastructure—as well as closing the disparity between regions that have
resources and an established infrastructure and regions that do not,” Lau
wrote in her electronic portfolio. “I am particularly focused on developing
more efficient renewable energy systems that can satisfy the demands of a
growing population in a sustainable and environmentally-friendly fashion.”

Her three-semester Pratt Research Fellow project enabled her to understand the
mechanisms behind and to develop a rational pathway toward designing
nanomaterials with tailored shapes. Such materials are studied experimentally
in Ben Wiley’s lab at Duke, whose work served as inspiration for Lau’s
computational simulations in Blum’s lab. In the process, Lau became proficient
in simulation techniques that researchers can apply across a host of
challenges in materials science, such as third-generation photovoltaics, fuel
cells and lithium-based batteries. Wiley is a professor of chemistry who co-
supervised Lau with a team of four other students on a Bass Connections
research project in 2020-2021 to design an alkaline water electrolyzer and
hydrogen storage system as a less-expensive alternative for heating and
cooking fuel than electricity from an electrochemical battery in developing
nations.

Lau’s project used the first principles approach to materials science, meaning
she employed the fundamental laws of quantum mechanics and thermodynamics to
predict the behavior of the nanomaterials in her study.

Specifically, Lau studied the mechanisms driving the growth of shape-
controlled gold nanostructures in bromine-containing environments. She showed
that different surfaces of gold nanocrystals immersed in a solution containing
bromine, chlorine or iodine atoms can be covered by different amounts of these
atoms even when in the same solution. The different surface coverage creates a
pathway to chemically grow gold nanocrystals with deliberately chosen shapes
for specific applications.

In addition to Lau’s brief time in-person in Berlin and subsequent remote
work, she also met the global requirement of the NAE GCS program with her role
as quality control manager of the Siatha Pedestrian Footbridge Project in
Bolivia as a freshman supervised by Civil and Environmental Engineering
Professor David Schaad, who also leads Duke’s NAE GCS Program. She also
completed entrepreneurship, service-learning and interdisciplinary
requirements and wrote a 35-page thesis.

“I see climate change happening. As an engineer, I want to fix things and make
the world better,” Lau said. She will continue her studies as a PhD student
this fall in materials science and engineering at Stanford University.

Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate experience »

## Undergraduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 20, 2023 | Bass Connections

### Taking the Bull City by the Horns

February 22, 2023 | The Chronicle

### Sydney Hunt of Duke ECE Among Duke Young Trustee Finalists

View all undergrad news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

