

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Undergraduate » Undergraduate Research » Pratt Research Fellows

# Jose Rivera: Measuring Forces Inside Cells

  * **Major:** Biomedical Engineering
  * **Advisor:** Brenton Hoffman, Associate Professor in the Department of
    Biomedical Engineering
  * **Pratt Fellows Project:** _Determining the Molecular Mechanisms of
    Mechanotransduction_

What drew you to the Pratt Research Fellows Program?

I think the main reason I wanted to become a Pratt Research Fellow was to
complete a research project in the Hoffman Lab. It’s exciting to be a part of
a research team, especially at one of the top universities in the United
States. The program is also helpful because it provides compensation over the
summer, and it’s nice to have that guarantee that I can be paid for doing
research that I’m interested in.

What is your research project about?

The Hoffman Lab studies mechanobiology and mechanosensing, and that involves
measuring how physical forces can shape and control cells. The way that Dr.
Hoffman explained it to me is that we’re trying to look at medicine from a
physical approach rather than from a chemical approach. My project involves
developing different types of force sensors for the lab so we can measure
these physical forces.

So these forces can either involve tension, which is stretching the cells, or
compression, which squishes the cells. I’m specifically measuring tension and
these forces are pretty small—on the level of piconewtons. It’s important to
understand and measure these forces so you can get a better understanding of
what’s going on in the body and use that new understanding to solve biological
problems.

What drew you to this area of research?

The class that first drew me to my current research was BME 244, where I
learned about how different muscles worked to control blood flow. The faster
the blood flows the more the surrounding muscles dilate, and those mechanisms
are understood to be a result of the endothelial cells measuring and reacting
to how fast the blood flows inside these blood vessels. I learned that Dr.
Hoffman’s lab deals with how the cells understand these forces and I thought
that would be a cool thing to learn more about. When Dr. Hoffman was
explaining his approach of looking at physical things for medicine I thought
that it was something that hasn’t really been widely explored, which is
exciting to me.

What has your Pratt Research Fellows experience involved?

The beginning of the program is structured so you’re mainly working on your
project with your supervisor, which could also involve a graduate student that
you’d work with. It’s really fun over the summer because you get to spend more
time with other Pratt Fellows, and the administration also arranges cool
events that help you bond with the other Pratt Fellows in your class. You bond
over the research as well, and it’s fun to tell other people about the work
you’re doing and learn about the projects they’re working on in their other
labs, and you can sometimes even set up collaborations.

Into your senior year, over the fall and spring semesters, it’s a rush to the
finish to get everything ready for the final presentations. You get to present
all the work that you spent roughly a year and a half doing, which is really
exciting.

Do you have any advice for students that would be interested in becoming a
Pratt Fellow?

I recommend that any interested students start looking into labs as soon as
possible. I think it’s important to get at least some type of prior experience
before you join a lab so you know that you’re going to like the research in
the lab, and so your principal investigator will also have an idea about your
work ethic and how you can work together. I also recommend doing a little bit
of “research” (pun intended) and email people in different labs about what you
can do. The process of getting into a lab can be difficult, but once you’re
there things start to get easier.

How do you think your experience as a Pratt Fellow has helped you as you
prepare for life after graduation?

My goal after graduation is to go to medical school, and the Pratt Fellows
program has been helpful as I try to achieve that. It helps give you important
research experience that medical schools are looking for, which gives you that
leg up on your competition. I think it’s valuable to say that you were
involved in a program at Duke that gets you involved in biomedically relevant
research and allows you to present your results to both your peers and
faculty.

Pratt Research Fellows

Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate experience »

## Undergraduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 20, 2023 | Bass Connections

### Taking the Bull City by the Horns

February 22, 2023 | The Chronicle

### Sydney Hunt of Duke ECE Among Duke Young Trustee Finalists

View all undergrad news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

