

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Undergraduate » Undergraduate Research » Pratt Research Fellows

# Katherine Li: A Binding Research Experience

It was essentially a foregone conclusion that Katherine Li was destined to
become an environmental engineer

Growing up in the small town of Prince George, British Columbia, Li spent
family outings camping and hiking through the forests in the foothills and
peaks of the Canadian Rockies. Ever close to the environment, the effects of
climate change were impossible to miss when forest fires increasingly made the
air so smoky that she couldn’t see more than five feet in front of her while
walking to work on summer mornings.

And it didn’t hurt that her father is also an environmental engineer. One of
Li’s favorite things to do growing up, she says, was tour wastewater treatment
plants with her father.

“I was put off by the smell at first, but when the plant operators would show
me a vial of the filth that goes into the next plant, where clear water comes
out, I just thought that was the coolest thing,” Li said. “I loved the
engineering behind it.”

When it came time to choose a school for college, Li knew she wanted a strong
engineering program. The only question was which one. After weighing her
options, Li said she chose Duke in part because of the liberal arts classes
she could take that would balance and inform her engineering courses. The
schools in Canada, she said, don’t have that. They’re all very technical. And
Durham, North Carolina, had the added bonus of being just about as far away
from home as she could get.

During her first year on campus, Li was introduced to the Pratt Fellows
program by David Schaad, a professor of the practice of Civil & Environmental
Engineering at Duke (CEE), who teaches CEE’s first-year course. She knew she
was interested in conducting research as a career, so she didn’t hesitate to
sign up for the program. The experience, she says, was both more challenging
and more rewarding than she expected.

> "Don't be afraid to modify your original research plans as you figure out
> what part of your research you really enjoy. Research often evolves in
> different ways, and you end up answering really important questions that you
> didn't originally think about.”
>
> **Katherine Li '22** | Pratt Research Fellow

Pairing up with Helen Hsu-Kim, professor of CEE, Li’s Pratt Fellows research
focused on developing methods to measure how many binding sites called thiols
exist on the surface of certain species of bacteria. The more of these binding
sites that exist, Li explained, the more metals these bacteria are able to
bind to and remove from the environment.

“You can engineer these bacteria or grow them in certain environments that
will give them a higher concentration of these binding sites,” Li said. “And
then they can bind to metal pollutants like cadmium and lead that you don’t
want in your drinking water and completely remove them from the environment so
that they’re not biologically available.”

Li says several methods have been developed for this kind of work, but they’re
dependent on the specific bacteria being tested. Over the course of the past
year, Li has been working on a couple of different complex approaches—and even
developing her own computer model—to develop a method that provides more
consistent data while making it easier to compare results between experiments.

While challenging and time-consuming, Li said, the experience has been well
worth it.

“I learned what research is really like and that you’re probably not going to
complete an entire project within a single year,” Li said. “But I also learned
that it is a very rewarding process and that I like doing it. Even though
there are so many setbacks, when it finally works, and you get good data, it’s
a very satisfying feeling knowing that you’re contributing to and advancing
the science.”

After graduation, Li is planning to intern as a wastewater engineer at HDR
Engineering in Austin, Texas. Once her internship is completed, she will begin
a master’s degree in environmental engineering at Stanford University—which
she hopes to push into a PhD.

“To anyone thinking about becoming a Pratt Fellow, don't feel like you need
previous research experience, Li said. “The program really supports students
in learning what research is all about! And don't be afraid to modify your
original research plans as you figure out what part of your research you
really enjoy. Research often evolves in different ways, and you end up
answering really important questions that you didn't originally think about.”

Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate experience »

## Undergraduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 20, 2023 | Bass Connections

### Taking the Bull City by the Horns

February 22, 2023 | The Chronicle

### Sydney Hunt of Duke ECE Among Duke Young Trustee Finalists

View all undergrad news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

