

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Undergraduate » Undergraduate Research » Pratt Research Fellows

# Katie VanderKam: Improving the Efficiency of Wind Farms

  * **Major:** Mechanical Engineering
  * **Advisor:** Donald B. Bliss, Associate Professor of Mechanical
    Engineering and Materials Science
  * **Pratt Fellows Project:** _Wind Turbine Designs to Improve Efficiency and
    Allow Higher Turbine Density in Wind Farms_

How did you get interested in engineering?

I was always a math and science person, and I think engineering is a good way
to merge those two things together. It’s kind of the best of both worlds. I
did an engineering summer program a couple of years before coming to college
and really enjoyed all the hands-on projects, so I definitely wanted to
continue that. I’ve always liked building. I wrote my Common Application essay
about Legos, so it was a pretty easy choice in that regard.

What sorts of projects are you working on as a Pratt Fellow?

I am working with Dr. Bliss on modeling the wake behind vertical axis wind
turbines (VAWT). Before my project, Dr. Bliss had done a lot of research with
wake steering in horizontal axis wind turbines, that is, designing a turbine
to direct the wake behind it such that it would not interfere with the wind
going through other turbines. This would result in more efficient arrays of
turbines. He had not yet done this with VAWTs, but studying this type of
turbine was of interest. We have been doing a lot of computations about how
the wind is passing through this turbine, where it’s going and how we can
calculate that and figure out how it is operating.

Normally when you say “windmill” or “wind turbine,” people are going to
picture the horizontal axis ones that spin parallel to the ground. Vertical
axis ones spin perpendicular to the ground. There is a lot of research about
horizontal axis wind turbines, but not so much for vertical axis wind
turbines. My project works on developing computational models to track the
wake as it passes through a VAWT in a way that is hopefully faster or less
computationally expensive than running a full computational fluid dynamics
(CFD) model.

Why did you want to work on this project?

When I applied to the Pratt Research Fellows program, I went through the list
of available projects and ranked the ones in which I was most interested. This
one was my first choice. Dr. Bliss said he was looking for someone who was
good at spatially visualizing how things were working together, so you could
picture formations in your head. I am also a dancer and I have choreographed a
bunch. So, I was used to picturing formations, such as people moving around
together on a stage. I thought that is kind of how we would picture vortices
moving around each other behind a wind turbine. I saw that connection and
that’s why this project was interesting to me.

What do you think of the Pratt Research Fellows program?

I think it is a really good program for people who want to get deeply involved
with a research project. Since it goes on for three semesters and a summer,
you can really dedicate a lot of time and get involved in the nitty-gritty of
your project.

What’s it like working with the faculty?

I’ve really enjoyed it. They can be great advisors for a lot of different
things—earning their trust so they ask what you think, and you can come to
them about classes you are taking from them. Dr. Bliss was a great help, as I
was applying to PhD programs. It’s a great way to get closer to faculty and to
hear about what they’re interested in.

[ _Note: Since her interview, Katie has been accepted into a PhD program at
Princeton University where she plans to continue her research in
aerodynamics._ ]

Pratt Research Fellows

Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate experience »

## Undergraduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 20, 2023 | Bass Connections

### Taking the Bull City by the Horns

February 22, 2023 | The Chronicle

### Sydney Hunt of Duke ECE Among Duke Young Trustee Finalists

View all undergrad news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

