

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Undergraduate » Undergraduate Research » Pratt Research Fellows

# Matthew Salvino: Applying Machine Learning to Health Care

  * **Major** : Biomedical Engineering
  * **Advisor:** Lawrence Carin, James L. Meriam Distinguished Professor of
    Electrical and Computer Engineering and Duke's Vice President for Research
  * **Project:** _Deep Learning Image Analysis for Pathology_

What drew you to Duke Engineering?

I always knew that I wanted to go to medical school. So, one of the biggest
questions for me was what path would I want to take to get to medical school?
I have always been technically minded, and I was drawn to engineering. As I
did more research into Duke, I came to understand that it had a great
biomedical engineering program, and one of the things that have always
fascinated me is the intersection of medicine and technology.

Who is your Pratt Research Fellows mentor and what kind of work do you do?

The research I’m doing for the Pratt Research Fellows program is in the lab of
Larry Carin, who is a professor of computer and electrical engineering as well
as vice president for research at Duke. The work pertains to applying machine
learning to health. I’ve worked on a number of different projects; one of the
first projects I worked on was developing an automated method of detecting
diabetic retinopathy. The program takes images of the retina and, using
convolutional neural networks, can assess not only the presence of diabetic
retinopathy but also its extent. That can be used as a very important
prognostic tool.

In another project, we’re looking at fine-needle aspirations of thyroid
cancer. These pathology slides have hundreds of millions of pixels. It is very
time-consuming to analyze due to the size of each slide. One of the things
we’re focusing on is taking these images at lower resolutions, and separating
Bethesda 6 slides, one of the most malignant cases of thyroid pathology, from
non-Bethesda 6 slides.

We’re also developing a pathologist tool for prostate cancer classification.
The goal is to determine whether pathologists can accurately classify prostate
cancer using only areas of interest from a prostate cancer biopsy. We
developed a tool in which a classifier extracts different regions of interest
from a biopsy. We identified the regions that have the highest predictions of
being malignant, and we’ll only show those regions to the pathologist. The
goal of this project is to determine whether this is a feasible method—whether
a pathologist can accurately predict or classify prostate cancer using only
certain patches from a particular biopsy, with the ultimate goal of saving
time in classifying these cancers.

What is one thing that you have enjoyed most about your research?

The cool thing with this research is that you get to see the clinical
applications. I’ve interacted with pathologists and different people at Duke
Health to understand the need for this technology and how they might
incorporate it into their daily practice.

How were you matched with Dr. Carin?

I knew who I wanted to work with and what project I wanted to work on before I
even applied to the program. So, I applied with that knowledge in mind. I know
some other people have a general idea of the type of project they want to work
on or the professor they want to work with. The coordinators and organizers of
the program do a great job of matching people to interesting and impactful
projects.

Would you recommend the Pratt Research Fellows program?

Absolutely. I think it’s a great opportunity to explore a particular field
that you wouldn’t necessarily get exposed to through your major. For me, as a
biomedical engineer, I knew I wouldn’t necessarily get a foundation in machine
learning, so I used it as an opportunity and a learning experience, to get
exposure to this field and to see its applications in medicine. In addition,
the class credit and the summer funding from the program really give you the
tools, resources, and focus to put meaning into the work you are doing.

Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate experience »

## Undergraduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 20, 2023 | Bass Connections

### Taking the Bull City by the Horns

February 22, 2023 | The Chronicle

### Sydney Hunt of Duke ECE Among Duke Young Trustee Finalists

View all undergrad news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

