

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Undergraduate » Undergraduate Research » Pratt Research Fellows

# Michael Tian: Engineering Gene Therapy to Jump-Start the Heart

  * **Major:** Biomedical Engineering
  * **Advisor:** Nenad Brusac, Professor of Biomedical Engineering
  * **Project:** Improving Prokaryotic Sodium Channel Based Gene Therapy
    Delivery Methods for Cardiac Arrythmias in Vitro

For Michael Tian, the Pratt Fellows program offered a perk that was too
enticing to pass up: a chance to pursue an independent research project

Although many biomedical engineering students at Duke typically wait to join a
lab until their junior or senior year, Tian wasted no time in pursuing hands-
on research experience.

In the spring semester of his freshmen year, he joined a neural engineering
lab to gain practical wet-lab experience, but he realized that neuroscience-
based research wasn’t what he ultimately wanted to do. He began working in a
BME-lab that involved computational biology, but while he found the work
interesting, he realized he still wanted to pursue wet lab research. The
understanding led him to Nenad Bursac’s lab.

> “By the time the fall semester rolled around, I could tell I was already so
> much farther in experience than any of the undergrads, because I was able to
> have the time and support to work on something I found exciting.”
>
> **MICHAEL TIAN '22** | Pratt Research Fellow

“As a student in the pre-med route, I was really curious to pursue research
that could showcase how biomedical engineering can translate into the clinic,”
says Tian. “When I heard about the Bursac lab and their work with cardiac
regeneration, it sounded like everything that I was looking for.”

Since joining the lab in the spring of his sophomore year, Tian has assisted
Bursac and graduate students as they engineer bacterial genes that can help
heart muscle cells electrically activate.

Healthy heart tissue is made up of cells covered in sodium ion channels, which
are proteins that allow the tissue to respond to electrical signals. But when
heart tissue is damaged from an illness or injury, such as a heart attack, the
muscle can no longer contract and pump cohesively.

The Bursac Lab’s approach to this problem involves delivering the genes
responsible for creating sodium channel proteins to heart cells to enable the
creation of new ion channels in diseased cells. According to Tian, these new
ion channels would help boost the electrical activity of damaged tissue.

Tian was helping the team with this line of research, but by his junior year,
he was itching to get more independence in the lab.

“I had a chance to begin the Pratt Fellows application and sit down with Dr.
Bursac to discuss what projects I could pursue within our research area, and
he had a few ideas that he could set me loose on,” says Tian. “It was great to
have a set of options that I could just run with.”

Ultimately, Tian decided to focus on a project that involved exploring how to
increase the levels of sodium channel proteins created in key areas of the
heart cells.

“We can introduce these genes into cardiac tissue, but then we just hope that
they produce a lot of it and that it goes to all the right places,” explains
Tian. “But because the initial protein is from a bacteria and we’re
introducing it into mammalian cells, there are no guarantees that it will
work. For my project, I wanted to see if we could engineer existing protein
delivery pathways in these cells to also deliver the new sodium channel
protein.”

Although Bursac and his graduate mentors gave him a significant amount of
freedom in the work, Tian is grateful that the team was also there to provide
help or answer questions when a problem arose. Tian also realized that working
in the lab full-time over the summer as a Pratt Fellow enabled him to become
more comfortable with his own research and wet-lab work.

“By the time the fall semester rolled around, I could tell I was already so
much farther in experience than any of the undergrads because I was able to
have the time and support to work on something I found exciting,” says Tian.

“The Pratt Fellows program gave me a very deep understanding of what research
is like in an academic setting, like how to go about actually forming research
questions, how to plan out and optimize experiments, and how to efficiently
review the existing literature around a project, and even how to balance the
cost and present your findings,” he says. “I came out of the program feeling
like I had a high degree of ownership over my project, and to me, that was
incredibly valuable.”

Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate experience »

## Undergraduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 20, 2023 | Bass Connections

### Taking the Bull City by the Horns

February 22, 2023 | The Chronicle

### Sydney Hunt of Duke ECE Among Duke Young Trustee Finalists

View all undergrad news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

