

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Undergraduate » Undergraduate Research » Pratt Research Fellows

# Tiff Wei: Analyzing Satellite Data to Understand Ecosystems

  * **Major:**Environmental Engineering
  * **Advisor:**Ana P. Barros, the Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School Distinguished
    Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * **Pratt Research Fellow Project:** _Prospects for Agriculture in Southern
    Africa: A Joint, Multi-Sensor Analysis of Land-Atmosphere Dynamics in the
    Upper Zambezi River Basin_

When did you decide that you wanted to be an engineer?

I didn't really start to think about exactly what I wanted to do as a
career—or even as a major—until high school. I knew that I was always really
interested in design and art, and in trying to figure out a way to apply
everything that I was learning. I felt pretty early on, around my junior year
in high school, that I really wanted to do engineering because of the design
component and because I could apply what I was learning in my math and science
classes to the real world, specifically in engineering for the public.

I took an AP Environmental Science class as a junior in high school, and I
really loved going out into the wetland behind my school to collect field data
and understand the impact of human activities on the environment. That’s what
drew me to environmental engineering out of all the other engineering majors
at Duke—I loved learning more about how people can incorporate more
sustainable practices in their engineering design.

Why did you choose to work with Ana Barros?

I first started working with Dr. Barros because there was a guest lecturer in
my first-year Intro to Environmental Engineering course sharing her research
about land-atmosphere dynamics, and she offered to talk to us about research
opportunities at Duke. I reached out to her after class, and she walked me
through how best to contact professors about joining their labs.

The guest lecturer, Dr. Lauren Lowman, also happened to be one of Dr. Barros’s
PhD students at the time. And, she ended up mentoring me through contacting
professors about research opportunities and establishing good research habits.

Lauren and I ended up publishing a paper together in my sophomore year, and I
really appreciated the mentorship I received from Dr. Barros and other members
of the group. Dr. Barros recommended that I apply to the Pratt Research
Fellows program in my junior year to start an independent project that
expanded on my previous work.

What kinds of projects are you working on?

Dr. Barros's group does a lot of work with remote sensing, which involves
using radar and satellite measurements to quantify physical variables on
Earth, such as snowpack density, precipitation, land surface temperature,
cloud properties, and more. I'm examining the Upper Zambezi River Basin in
southern Africa, which is located within the miombo ecosystem.

This ecosystem contains tropical and subtropical grasslands, savannas and
shrublands, and covers a wide transition zone between the rainforest at the
equator and the semi-arid woodlands of the southern portion of the continent.
Tens of millions of people rely on this ecosystem for commercial farming,
wildlife conservation, tourism and small-scale agriculture, which gives the
region globally significant potential as either a carbon source or a carbon
sink. I'm hoping to understand some of the complex interactions that are going
on between land use and land cover change, in addition to climate change.

The way that I'm doing that is by looking at four different kinds of satellite
products. One of them, surface albedo, is a measure of the fraction of
incoming solar radiation that drives the land surface energy balance. And
then, another three—leaf area index, fractional vegetation cover, and solar-
induced chlorophyll fluorescence—are more related to the biophysical
properties and photosynthetic machinery of vegetation.

I'm hoping that by analyzing these five datasets, I can gain a better
understanding of the heat and moisture exchanges at the surface, how that
relates to changes in precipitation and climate change on the broader scale,
and what that means for agriculture in that region.

What have you found to be most valuable about the Pratt Research Fellows
Program?

I've really loved getting to know a lot of the professors and the graduate
students and postdoc students that I've met. I think it really helps in
understanding the dynamics of a research group and what it’s like to do
intensive research in a graduate program.

I would definitely recommend the program for anybody who's interested in that.
Also, if you want to get more experience doing research at a higher level, I
think there's so much that you can learn— not just the time management and
organization skills, but also how to communicate your research and your work
to other people and how to collaborate in academic settings.

Honestly, I think one of the biggest takeaways that I've taken from Pratt
Fellows is just understanding how to conduct research somewhat independently,
with really great mentorship from Dr. Barros and other grad students. Just
being able to hold myself accountable for work and also learning how to manage
my time properly are some really important things I've taken away from all of
this.

Pratt Research Fellows

Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate experience »

## Undergraduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 20, 2023 | Bass Connections

### Taking the Bull City by the Horns

February 22, 2023 | The Chronicle

### Sydney Hunt of Duke ECE Among Duke Young Trustee Finalists

View all undergrad news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

