

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Undergraduate » Undergraduate Research » Pratt Research Fellows

# Yi Chen: Embracing New Challenges

• **Major:** Electrical and Computer Engineering/Computer Science (Minor:
Music)  
• **Advisor:** Stefan Goetz  
• **Pratt Research Fellow Project:** _Novel Drive Train for Electric Vehicles_

Yi Chen ’22 has studied the piano since the age of five and even entered Duke
as a prospective music major, concentrating on composition and theory

“I had the thought that I was going to study music and neuroscience,
actually,” said Chen. “Music is one of the best examples of applied
neuroscience, in the sense that it's all about the creation and release of
tension.”

In the Western harmonic system, explained Chen, a specific progression always
creates the same expectation in the listener. “Classical composers’ music is
so popular because they are very good at creating those expectations with
their harmonies—and then either fulfilling it or not fulfilling it, depending
on what their goal is,” he said.

Chen quickly progressed toward a music major, finishing most of the required
coursework by the end of his second year. He found he had enough time left at
Duke to be able to branch out and explore more of what the university had to
offer.

“I've always been interested in tech stuff,” said Chen. “I was looking at
courses I could take, and I thought, ‘You know, I really want to add computer
science to the mix.’ So, that's what I did first, and after a few months, I
realized I was having a lot of fun. But software alone didn’t feel like quite
enough for me."

Chen took his first class in the Department of Electrical & Computer
Engineering (ECE), and soon he stepped off the academic path he had chosen. He
declared a double major in Computer Science (CS) and ECE, minoring in music.

As a Pratt Research Fellow, Chen worked in the lab of Stefan Goetz, an
assistant professor of psychiatry and behavioral sciences, neurosurgery, and
ECE. Goetz is part of Duke’s Brain Simulation Electronics Lab, which focuses
on electronics powered by brain stimulation—an intersection that fits well
with Chen’s interest in engineering and neurosciences. Under Goetz’s
supervision, Chen has been working to further the development of a new kind of
drive train for electric vehicles.

“It's a new way of managing battery power, but it doesn’t rely on new
chemistry or anything like that,” explained Chen. “It’s a purely software-
based way of managing a battery pack.”

A traditional battery pack has hardwired connections between battery
terminals, and voltage is always high. But the multi-level, modularized
series-parallel converter, or MMSPC, replaces physical connections between the
batteries with wave-producing transistors that can be switched on and off,
sending an adjustable alternating-current (AC) signal directly to the motor.

The MMSPC allows the team to rewire all the cells in a battery pack depending
on the level of voltage they want to send. They can even choose to route
around single battery cells if it’s a more effective strategy. For engineers
working on squeezing the highest range out of electric vehicles between
charges, it’s a particularly useful concept.

“The amount of range you get from a battery pack is limited by its least
effective cell,” explained Chen. “Once one of the cells drops to a certain
voltage, you can’t use the battery anymore without charging the entire pack. A
system like ours is very beneficial because if one cell’s voltage dips
significantly lower than the others, you could just route around it while
still tapping into all the other cells.”

Chen has also been working to distribute and balance charge across all the
cells, to prevent voltage from dropping in the first place.

“Balancing the cells solves a fundamental problem of batteries right now,”
said Goetz. “No two battery cells in a pack have exactly the same
properties—there’s always one that is far worse than the others, that limits
overall performance.”

According to Goetz, balancing the charge also solves performance issues
related to overheating, self-discharge, cell capacitance, aging and cell
death. Chen admitted that he felt out of his depth when he inherited the
project from Zhongxi Li, an ECE doctoral student in Goetz’s lab.

“There was already an array of batteries with circuit boards on them and most
of the control system. So, I had to learn and to understand how phase AC
motors are driven, what field-oriented control is, what trapezoidal control is
… just a lot of things to learn,” Chen said.

His first semester was spent doing exactly that: learning.

“That period of time was actually very productive for me because that's when I
learned to design circuit boards, how LabVIEW works, and about motor control
and some power electronics concepts. Even given a short amount of time, you
can learn a lot about a whole bunch of things if you really want to,” said
Chen.

Shortly thereafter, Goetz’s lab procured a gasoline-powered dune buggy. Chen
began to strip the fuel system from the vehicle, preparing it to receive its
new electrical system and demonstrate the team’s novel drive train. Now, he’s
started characterizing the battery pack's waveforms.

“In the next few weeks, I'm going to try to quickly make a mounting plate for
the motor on the vehicle to see if I can start getting the system onto the
vehicle. I guess my goal is that it drives by the time I graduate,” he said.

After that, Chen will be busy with another different challenge: he’s beginning
a PhD program in electrical engineering at North Carolina State University at
Raleigh, developing wearable biosensors in the lab of professor Alper Bozkurt.

Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate experience »

## Undergraduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 20, 2023 | Bass Connections

### Taking the Bull City by the Horns

February 22, 2023 | The Chronicle

### Sydney Hunt of Duke ECE Among Duke Young Trustee Finalists

View all undergrad news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

