

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Memo to PhD, MS & MEng Students: Guidance for Graduate Student Research

_March 13, 2020_

Dear Pratt graduate students,

We are writing with updated information for our graduate students who
participate in lab-based research. Please note that this guidance is based on
our current assessment as of March 13, 2020, and is subject to change given
the rapidly evolving situation.

As previously announced, all classes at Pratt are postponed until March 23
when they will resume online. **If you are only taking classes, you do not
need to return to campus and may disregard this message. Please visit** **the
Pratt COVID-19 Information webpage atpratt.duke.edu/covid19** **for additional
information and resources. Duke-wide updates are available
atcoronavirus.duke.edu.**

Duke University has provided guidelines related to research during the
COVID-19 pandemic at research.duke.edu/coronavirus-research-FAQ. PhD and MS
students can find additional relevant information on the Graduate School
website.

At present, Duke and Pratt research labs remain open. PhD and master’s
students, as well as postdoctoral researchers and other lab staff, are
permitted on campus to perform laboratory-based research. Students doing non-
laboratory-based research should work remotely. Students are not permitted to
return to Pratt buildings to meet with colleagues, work independently outside
a faculty-directed lab, or socialize.

While we are working to maintain our research activities, our first priority
is your health and well-being. Toward that end, we will follow these
guidelines:

  * Faculty mentors are expected to be flexible with lab members, especially
    those who may be at higher risk or have special concerns
  * We encourage use of online communication tools so that students are able
    to work remotely for all or part of their time
  * If students need to be in the lab, lab teams should discuss ways to
    promote good lab hygiene and enable social distancing through options such
    as taking shifts. Duke has provided specific guidance for “Laboratory
    Operations Changes.”
  * While current policy permits meetings with fewer than 50 Duke faculty,
    staff or students, labs should consider using Zoom for lab meetings if
    this is more comfortable for the team under the current circumstances
  * Students and other lab members who have been traveling should follow
    Duke’s guidelines for returning to any campus lab. Labs can add additional
    requirements, even if the student was not in a level 2 or 3 country, and
    help arrange for students to work remotely during this period
  * For students who would typically present a poster for their research, we
    are planning to conduct the poster sessions remotely. Faculty can review
    work, then provide feedback. Alternatively, groups might consider Zoom-
    based poster presentations, if scheduling allows

We encourage open communication to ensure agreement about procedures for
returning doctoral or master’s student researchers in each lab. We have asked
all faculty to work with students to accommodate their particular situations,
while helping each student continue their research path under the current
circumstances. If there are disagreements, students are encouraged to speak to
the department DGS or DMS, whose role is to advocate for students.

If you have questions, please contact your DGS or DMS or any of us. We
appreciate your flexibility and patience as we all work together to ensure a
healthy and productive remainder of the semester.

Sincerely,

_Ravi Bellamkonda  
_ _Vinik Dean of Engineering_

_George Truskey  
Sr. Associate Dean for Research _

_Jennifer West  
Associate Dean for PhD Education_

_Jeff Glass  
_ _Sr. Associate Dean for Education & Learning Innovation_

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

