

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Special Memo From the Dean

_March 11, 2020_

Dear Pratt Community,

As the world confronts the COVID-19 virus, we are all facing many changes to
our everyday lives, and the prospect of a spring semester that is very
different than what we had expected.

The announcement from President Price about precautions Duke University is
taking to protect the health and safety of our community brings with it
significant changes to our usual operations.

At Pratt, **we will resume both graduate-level and undergraduate engineering
courses on March 23 in an online format**. Please look for more information
soon. For all of our students, know we will do everything we can to keep you
connected, engaged and informed so that you can continue your engineering
studies successfully and finish out the semester strong. We are here to help
you.

**Our research enterprise (including laboratories and shared resources such as
SMIF), student support services, and other business and support functions will
remain operational.** We anticipate that most faculty and staff will be
working their normal schedules, in accordance with Duke guidelines (see FAQs).

**Graduate student researchers and post-doctoral fellows who have been
traveling for Spring Break may plan to return to campus to resume their
research.** However, please review and follow Duke’s guidelines for reporting
symptoms and self-quarantining after travel. Graduate students who are only
taking classes do not need to return to campus, as all classes will be online.

Please note that these policies, particularly regarding access to campus
facilities, are subject to change on short notice. For the latest information
and updates from Duke University, visit coronavirus.duke.edu.

We will reach out soon with more details for specific groups. Points of
contact for the Pratt leadership team include:

  * **Undergraduate Education:** Jeff Glass, Linda Franzoni, Lupita McMillian,
    and Department Undergraduate Studies Directors
  * **Master’s Education:** Jeff Glass, Brad Fox, Deb Wojcik, and Department
    Master’s Studies Directors
  * **PhD Education:** Jennifer West and Department Graduate Studies Directors
  * **Research:** George Truskey and Department Chairs
  * **Administration and Staff:** Susan Bonifield
  * **IT/Support for online course delivery:** Jim Daigle (with Duke OIT and
    Learning Innovation)

The coming weeks will certainly present new challenges for us all, but Duke
Engineers have never turned away from a challenge. I encourage everyone to be
patient, kind and supportive of one another as we navigate through the
upcoming weeks together, keeping our minds on the ultimate goals of our work
and studies, and our hopes for our community.

I also welcome your thoughts and ideas for how we can support you over the
weeks ahead. Please reach out to our team at prattdeansoffice@duke.edu, or to
your department chair, academic program leader or supervisor at any time.

Ravi V. Bellamkonda  
Vinik Dean of Engineering

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

