

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2021

# Keeping Airplanes, Rockets and Helicopters in the Sky

April 1, 2021 | Richard Hollenbach and Shreyas Hegde

Aeroelasticity at Duke University has grown and thrived for more than three
decades

Events affect everyone differently and can have deep impact on their present
and future. One such event happened on the morning of January 8, 1989, during
a routine scheduled flight from London’s Heathrow Airport to Belfast
International Airport, Northern Ireland.

A fan blade in the left engine broke. However, indicators on this new edition
Boeing 737-400 made the pilots believe that the issue was with the right
engine. As a result, the actual functioning engine (the right one) was shut
down while the damaged engine (the left one) was filled with fuel, igniting
it. The pilots attempted an emergency landing at East Midlands Airport, but
crashed onto a motorway near Kegworth, England. Forty-seven people lost their
lives and even more sustained serious injuries in this aerospace disaster.

This unfortunate event inspired one particular student to go work for General
Electric to improve jet engines. Thirty years later, Robert Kielb, professor
of the practice of mechanical engineering and materials science, now teaches
vibrations at Duke University, after studying the field of turbine engines at
General Electric and NASA.

Similar to Kielb, the faculty who make up the Aeroelasticity Laboratory at
Duke University have a commitment to improve the technologies that govern the
development of airplanes, rockets and helicopters, and help them reach the sky
and beyond. Located within the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science (MEMS), the laboratory focuses on three main
research efforts to solve present-day problems in aerospace engineering:
experimental testing in a low-speed wind tunnel, rigorous theoretical models
and large-scale computational simulations. Recent advances include hypersonic
beam and plate dynamics, helicopter rotor wake simulations, embedded
compressor-rotor interaction and vortex-induced vibrations of turbines, among
many others.

The history of the group is as diverse and unique as its members, and to
understand it well, we talked to the longest-tenured member of the
Aeroelasticity faculty: Earl Dowell, the William Holland Hall Distinguished
Professor of MEMS.

## The Birth of the Aeroelasticity Laboratory

When Dowell first came to Duke back in 1983, aeroelasticity was a new activity
for the School of Engineering. Coming from Princeton University, he had been
with experts in fields like fluid mechanics, dynamics and structural mechanics
individually, but those fields were not often being studied together at most
universities. Duke’s strong interest in interdisciplinary research provided a
unique opportunity to study these fields together; thus, the Aeroelasticity
Laboratory was born.

With time, additional members joined. Lawrence Virgin was a post-doc under
Dowell and has since stayed at Duke, going on to become a professor of MEMS
and Civil and Environmental Engineering (CEE), chair of the latter for a time,
and currently running the Non-linear Dynamics Laboratory. Donald Bliss,
associate professor of MEMS, brought in his knowledge and expertise in
aerodynamics and acoustics. In 1990, Kenneth Hall, now the Julian Francis
Abele Distinguished Professor of MEMS, joined the faculty after working at
United Technologies Research Center (UTRC), where he was working as an
engineer. Hall—who would later serve six years as the chair of MEMS—works on
unsteady aerodynamics and aeroelasticity, with a focus on aeromechanical
problems in turbomachinery.

During the time when the group was growing, Dowell had the additional
responsibility of being the dean of Duke Engineering. On being asked how he
handled the lab responsibilities while serving as the dean, his response was
as insightful as his work.

“As the dean, I had to take a broad view of not only the department, but of
the entire school of engineering,” said Dowell. “I definitely did not want to
feather my own nest, so to speak. So I just focused on looking for good people
to hire. Nobody studies the same thing for their entire career anymore, so I
focused on faculty and students who displayed strong characteristics,
regardless of what they may have previously been working on. For example,
after the start of my research in aeroelasticity, I then turned to the study
of nonlinear dynamics and chaos, but now I focus more on aerodynamics, limit
cycle oscillations and developing reduced order models.”

## Three Decades of Excellence

In total, nearly one hundred students have participated in activities
associated with the Aeroelasticity Laboratory. They have earned doctoral,
master’s and bachelor’s degrees in mechanical engineering. In addition,
students have completed the undergraduate certificate in aerospace
engineering, or the newly created SOAR graduate aerospace certificate. These
certificates are the only way to earn an aerospace engineering distinction
from the university, vital for the students who then go on to work in the
aerospace field at companies such as NASA and SpaceX.

Acronyms are popular with the lab, as it also participates in the THRUST
Master’s Program, a two-year international program with partner universities
in Sweden and Belgium. Receiving funding from the European Union, students
study turbomachinery aeromechanics at KTH in Stockholm, complete a summer
internship at any aerospace company, and then spend a year completing their
Master’s degree and a research project at either Duke or Universite de Liege
in Belgium.

> “Nobody studies the same thing for their entire career anymore, so I focused
> on faculty and students who displayed strong characteristics, regardless of
> what they may have previously been working on.”

Kielb has been an integral part of this program for all 10 years so far,
teaching one of its fundamental courses and advising students who choose to
attend Duke for year two. Upon completion, students receive two master’s
degrees, which is unique to this program, the only one of its kind at Duke.

The Aeroelasticity Laboratory’s projects are not just limited to Duke; one
prominent involvement is within the GUIde Consortium. Standing for Government,
Universities, and Industry, this consortium researches issues in
turbomachinery. Projects come directly from engine companies, while quarterly
updates provide constant communication between the researchers at the partner
universities.

The GUIde Consortium began at Carnegie Mellon University in 1991 to study
high-cycle fatigue problems in engines. Funding came from multiple industries
as well as the US Air Force and NASA. In the early 2000s, GUIde moved to Duke
University, where it remains today. GUIde 6, the sixth iteration of projects,
kicked on in 2019, with Duke focusing on forced response, nonsynchronous
vibrations and system identification techniques.

Over the years, faculty have won multiple national awards from organizations
such as the American Institute for Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA), the
American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), the National Academy of
Engineering, and more. What sets this group apart from other lab-oratories,
however, is the interdisciplinary nature of projects between members, using
cutting-edge techniques to solve present-day issues.

Bliss and Dowell published papers on the use of piston theory to study
unsteady aerodynamics, especially in hypersonic flow, which is flow moving at
speeds five times greater than the speed of sound. Hall and Thomas developed a
harmonic balance computational tool to study unsteady aerodynamics in cascades
of airfoils, which has even been used to study turbomachinery aeromechanics
problems with Kielb. Virgin and Kielb studied nonlinear dynamics in fan blades
and stator vanes—work that won a John P. Davis award from ASME. Dowell also
worked with Kielb and Thomas to study vortex-induced vibrations on an airfoil
experiencing nonsynchronous vibrations.

There are few labs with the unique level of collaboration on all facets of
modern-day aerospace research quite like the Aeroelasticity Laboratory. So
here’s to decades of excellence in aerospace engineering at Duke University
thus far, and many more to come.

**_Richard Hollenbach and Shreyas Hegde are PhD students in mechanical
engineering studying aerodynamics and vibrations in turbomachinery under
Robert Kielb within the Aeroelasticity Laboratory._**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2021

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

