

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2021

# Innovation Amidst a Pandemic

April 1, 2021 | Lily Hiser

A glimpse into Duke’s COVID-19 Engineering Response Team

When the COVID-19 pandemic erupted in the United States in early March 2020,
it brought overwhelming fear that blanketed the country’s health care system.
With all of the unknowns surrounding this highly infectious and dangerous
disease, health care professionals and their systems were apprehensive not
only of treating COVID-19 patients, but also of keeping their personnel safe
in the meantime. Shortages of personal protective equipment (PPE)
exponentially increased caregivers’ anxiety, leading them to seek creative
solutions from their community.

Duke University Health System (DUHS) was not immune to these anxieties. As
DUHS braced for the predicted influx of COVID-19 patients, concerns over
equipment supplies drove clinicians to turn to colleagues in the Pratt School
of Engineering for assistance. As the pandemic continued to ramp up, leaders
across Duke University and Duke Health joined together to form the COVID-19
Engineering Response Team. Eager to combat COVID-19, they shared device design
expertise and innovative solutions.

Spearheading this campaign from the biomedical engineering department were
Eric Richardson, professor of the practice of biomedical engineering; Paul
Fearis, senior lecturing fellow in biomedical engineering; and Mark Palmeri,
professor of the practice of biomedical engineering. Commenting on the reason
for the team’s formation, Palmeri said, “If you’re watching another ship sink
in the ocean due to a carpenter ant that could also be eating your ship, you
do everything you can to make sure your ship doesn’t go down.”

Also leading the group were Chip Bobbert, the senior engineer and fabrication
architect at Duke’s Innovation Co-Lab. Additional support came from Ann
Saterbak, director of the Duke Engineering First-Year Experience, who
coordinated undergraduate participation; Joe Knight, an adjunct engineering
professor with Duke Design Health; Ken Gall, associate dean for
entrepreneurship at Duke Engineering; and other members from Duke Engineering
and the Innovation Co-Lab.

On the clinical side, Donna Crenshaw, executive that bringing together lots of
people, who organically wanted to be part of it, makes a huge difference,”
said Palmeri. “Everyone there was willing to put their own personal time and
resources into it.”

Most people still remember the shortage of essential items such as toilet
paper and hand sanitizer in the early months of the pandemic, but these
nationwide shortages expanded to materials and hardware products. Because of
this, Bobbert and the team had to get creative with sourcing the materials
that would comprise the face shields and the machines that would make them.

Some of the clear plastic that covered the face was purchased from a hot-air
balloon supplier, and a metal manufacturing plant in Burlington was persuaded
to cease operation to help produce various face shield parts, Bobbert
explained. To create the bend seen in the plastic face covering, the team used
thermoforming. And when no thermoforming machines were available, Bobbert
purchased a pizza oven and used it instead.

Before the large-scale manufacturing could begin, Palmeri rigorously tested
the design until he was confident that it met the quality expected of a
medical device and the overarching standards it was subject to. He set up a
testing rig—as described in the ANSI standard that governs face shields—in his
own home using items he already had. All of this was done to ensure that users
of the face shield could be confident they were protected.

Other completed projects include a surgical hood and an aerosolization sampler
clip, both of which are either in clinical use or in the process of being
implemented. Richardson and Duke Surgeon Melissa Erickson took the lead on the
surgical hood, which repurposed Stryker Flyte Personal Protection Systems to
serve as PAPRs (powered air-purifying respirators) for surgeons. Several other
projects that stemmed from the initial needs-finding exercise, such as
COVIAGE, a negative pressure tent designed to isolate infectious COVID-19
patients, continued to develop throughout the fall.

After the initial anxiety around the pandemic, Richardson says that the team
has settled into what will be a marathon of device design, and faculty members
are optimistic about the future impacts that this team will have for
collaboration between the Schools of Medicine and Engineering. While the team
is by no means the first of its kind, the strong and vigorous response of both
institutions while faced with a seemingly unsurmountable enemy lends further
credence to the importance of establishing strong collaborations between the
two. The Engineering Response Team is the epitome of Duke’s
capabilities—creative innovation, high-quality results and an unrelenting
pursuit of bettering the community.

**_Lily Hiser is a senior studying biomedical engineering._**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2021

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

