

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2021

# An Exploration of the Pratt IDEAS Program

April 1, 2021 | Talya Jeter

Duke Engineering’s IDEAS Program provides students a path for creating their
own unique major

The Pratt School of Engineering offers a range of academic paths for
undergrads, such as certificates, joint major programs and a 4+1 master’s
degree. However, there’s another lesser-known academic route available to
Pratt students—the Interdisciplinary Engineering & Applied Science (IDEAS)
program.

The IDEAS program, similar to Trinity’s Program II major, allows students to
create a unique degree by selecting their own sequence of courses offered at
Duke. A major draw of the degree is that students shape their learning
experiences around the fields that are not necessarily already connected by
Pratt’s existing degree programs.

The process for declaring an IDEAS major is fairly straightforward. First,
prospective IDEAS students reach out to potential faculty advisors to begin
creating a four-year plan for their major. Linda Franzoni, associate dean of
undergraduate education, has an important role in the matchmaking process
between students and faculty advisors. Next, students must write a proposal as
to why they want to pursue their unique major and why current degrees at Duke
don’t satisfy their academic needs. Finally, Franzoni and other Duke faculty,
including the directors of undergraduate studies and academic deans, review
the proposal. More often than not, the plan will be sent back to students for
revision to better align with Pratt’s educational goals, typically adding and
removing classes from the proposal. After revision, the committee reviews the
plan again and passes it on to the Engineering Faculty Council (EFC), a group
of eight faculty members that vote on finalizing an IDEAS major.

> “It was a really fun challenge, because it forced me to reach out to a lot
> of upperclassmen and professors. So I got to know cool people and talk to
> them for their advice and do a lot of research on my own."
>
> grace dessert

Since its inception in 1981, the Pratt IDEAS program graduates one or two
students per year, with a wide array of degrees. However, there are some
quirks in its short past. For example, between 1986 and 1992 almost every
person with a declared IDEAS major studied biochemical engineering. Those
years coincided with the recent opening of the North Carolina Biotechnology
Consortium, which was hiring multitudes of experienced biochemical engineers.

This glut of biochemical engineers was reflected in Duke’s hiring practice, as
several joined as part of Pratt’s faculty. Due to new availability of chemical
engineering professors, students were able to put together courses to create a
biochemical engineering major. However, this program was eventually
discontinued, as chemical engineering courses were phased out or absorbed into
existing departments.

Although the flexibility of the IDEAS program is its strongest asset, that
unpredictability also has drawbacks that can have ramifications on a student’s
path at Duke. As Franzoni points out, “The biggest thing that concerns me when
a student designs their own major is that there’s no guarantee that those
courses will be taught in the future.”

Since IDEAS majors tend to rely on more niche subjects that may revolve around
a few courses taught by a single professor in a single semester, the course
load for IDEAS majors is always uncertain. However, students are partnered
with a faculty advisor who can help them navigate through those obstacles and
find alternative courses that can still be used to fulfill their IDEAS major.

Grace Dessert, a junior in Pratt, has gone through the process of creating her
own IDEAS major and is currently majoring in neural engineering. Her path may
have been more unconventional than the typical Pratt student, but highlights a
lot of the benefits of and reasons why a student would pursue an IDEAS major.

Dessert started her time at Duke planning to major in neuroscience, but
quickly found that her interests were more aligned with the quantitative side
of neuroscience. She switched into Pratt the spring of her first year with a
plan to major in biomedical engineering, a traditional path for a combination
of engineering and medicine. However, she soon discovered that completing the
major a semester behind, and with minimal AP credits, was going to be an
arduous task.

Instead, Dessert decided to look into other options, stumbled across the IDEAS
program on the Pratt website and realized that the program would be a great
fit for her skill set and interests. When she inquired about the IDEAS program
with some of her upperclassmen engineering friends, she was disappointed to
realize that no one else knew how it worked. That’s when she reached out to
Franzoni and talked with Warren Grill, professor of biomedical engineering,
who became her advisor, to create the major “neural engineering.”

“I love the freedom first and foremost,” says Dessert. “How I can choose every
single class that I get to take. I love how it’s so interdisciplinary and I
still get a lot of depth of study to take classes like math, BME and
neuroscience without having to overload.”

When it came time to plan her own coursework, Dessert initially found it
slightly daunting because she didn’t know what courses would allow her to be a
successful neural engineer. “It was a really fun challenge, because it forced
me to reach out to a lot of upperclassmen and professors. So I got to know
cool people and talk to them for their advice and do a lot of research on my
own,” said Dessert.

Since her initial proposal, she has re-vised her degree outline twice as she
continues to explore the major.

Before declaring for an IDEAS major, however, students should carefully
consider their potential career paths after college. Any major created through
the IDEAS program is not an ABET-accredited major, which is typically a
requirement to receive a Professional Engineering (PE) license. If a student
wants to pursue engineering in the professional world, the IDEAS program may
not be the best fit. For those interested in academia, medicine or other non-
engineering disciplines, the IDEAS program is a promising major choice.

Overall, the Pratt IDEAS program can open new doors for students interested in
unconventional degree paths and pursuing an education that ultimately reflects
their passions and goals. Although trailblazing a new major can be
intimidating and has its drawbacks, the fluidity of the IDEAS program allows
for continuous revision and exploration into emerging fields and technology!

**_Talya Jeter is a sophomore majoring in biomedical engineering._**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2021

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

