

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2021

# Saving the Summer Internship

April 1, 2021 | Zongsen Li

Phoenix Project provides critical summer internships for students during the
pandemic

For college students all around the nation, the global pandemic did more than
force them off campus and into online classrooms—it also caused them to face
an empty summer schedule with many prominent businesses being forced to cancel
their internships.

Students who had worked hard in landing prized internships to gain much-needed
work experience—and hopefully some cash as well—watched as their years of
effort went up into puffs of smoke. While companies focused on entertainment
and travel couldn’t afford to hold their internship programs, many businesses,
especially in the digital services and biotechnology sectors, needed the
expertise and skills in software and data science that students brought to the
table. All that was needed was something to tie the two together.

And so, from the ashes of the pandemic, the Phoenix Project was born, led by
Mary Gooneratne (ECE/CS ‘21) and Luke Truitt (ECE ‘21), who saw an opportunity
to help their fellow Duke students. The project hoped to match Duke students
who had technical expertise with various organizations, institutions and
businesses for remote work. As Truitt puts it, “After doing it with [Duke
Applied Machine Learning] so frequently, it felt like it was my responsibility
to do something after seeing so many students and individuals lose their jobs
and internships.”

The project itself was a resounding success. “There were more applications on
both sides then we could handle,” says Truitt. “When getting the organization
off the ground, we unfortunately had to cut out a lot on both sides.”

> “College students around the nation could have something to help them find
> re-mote internships with less well-resourced businesses, all of it staffed
> and managed by folks who can handle it. And they’ll have a large class of
> fellow interns to learn from and develop alongside.”

At the end of the process, a total of 74 companies offered 210 Duke students
remote intern-ships over the summer, allowing them to work on projects ranging
from analyzing water heater behavior to working with the Department of Defense
in modernizing the 4th Medical Division’s Mobile App diagnosing capabilities.

The work done in the Phoenix Project was not limited to projects. Truitt and
other leaders in the organization, along with the Duke Career Center, arranged
speaker panels and workshops with companies to help students expand their
technical chops. Demo days were held for students to allow them to practice
delivering results to clients and technical assistants, and other resources
helped the students get past short-term blocks and focus on their projects.

Project Phoenix also received help from Duke faculty and staff. Truitt
particularly emphasized the importance of Steve McClelland, an executive-in-
residence at the Pratt School of Engineering and faculty member in Duke
Engineering Entrepreneurship (EngEn) and Duke Innovation & Entrepreneurship
(I&E). To help support the project, McClelland initially provided the project
with $80,000 in funding for stipends. “McClelland was also a huge help as the
sounding board for building out the program,” says Truitt.

Phoenix Project went so well that it might be here to stay. Many participating
companies have reached out in the hopes of continuing the work done over the
summer. The Department of Defense was so impressed with the work done that a
large contract was put in place to continue work in Fall 2020.

Truitt himself has big plans for the organization moving forward. Major League
Hacking, a global company known for their hackathons, has personally reached
out to Truitt to create a joint fellowship with the Phoenix Project.

“We’re currently working together to build up this fellowship, and it’s
allowing us to help out a lot more than just Duke students,” says Truitt.
“College students around the nation could have something to help them find re-
mote internships with less well-resourced businesses, all of it staffed and
managed by folks who can handle it. And they’ll have a large class of fellow
interns to learn from and develop alongside.”

The Phoenix Project’s second coming is currently underway in tandem with Major
League Hacking and the National Security Innovation Network, and is running
under the name the “Tour of Duty.” Version three will be launched in January
with a slew of private businesses.

**_Zongsen Li is a freshman planning to major in biomedical engineering._**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2021

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

