

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News » Archives

# News Archive for Industry

September 28, 2021

### Christensen Family Center Is Home to a New View on Innovation

The new Duke Engineering center seeks to not only develop student innovators,
but discover how to make innovation easier, faster, cheaper

July 12, 2021

### Xilis Raises $70 Million Series A Financing to Advance Diagnostic and Drug
Discovery

The financing will also support a development platform leveraging proprietary
MicroOrganoSphere™ technology

June 08, 2021

### Craig Hurwitz: Bringing Financial Technology Insights to the Classroom

As the new Executive-in-Residence with Duke Engineering’s FinTech and
Cybersecurity master’s programs, Craig S. Hurwitz, CFA will draw on his wide-
ranging industry expertise to help students find success in evolving tech
fields

April 27, 2021

### Duke Engineering Launches Institute for Enterprise Engineering

New organization will increase opportunities for professional education,
industry partnerships focused on applying technological innovation to
enterprises

April 26, 2021

### Design Health Program Impresses on the National Stage

Duke’s Design Health teams are finding success, earning top spots in national
design competitions and turning innovative prototypes into patents

April 12, 2021 | FDIC

### FDIC and Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering Announce Strategic
Partnership to Promote Innovation

Agreement provides a roadmap for the FDIC’s Tech Lab and Duke faculty and
students to collaborate in a number of areas focused on innovation, including
artificial intelligence, risk management, quantitative research and
cybersecurity

November 06, 2018

### Automated Feminine Hygiene Disposal for Developing Communities

Demonstration system manufactured through global partnership is the size of
carry-on luggage

September 05, 2018

### Machine Learning Company Infinia ML Partners with Duke to Prepare the Next
Generation of Entrepreneurs to Make Business Impact

Innovative undergraduate instruction will equip future engineers,
entrepreneurs and startups to strategically leverage machine learning in
business

May 25, 2018

### General Motors and Duke Team Up to Take on AV Sensor Cleaning

A team of five senior Mechanical Engineering students bring a fresh approach
to keeping cameras and sensors on autonomous vehicles clean

August 15, 2017

### Materials Research Society Announces First Innovators for 2017 iMatSci
Innovator Showcase

Two materials-based startups based on technology developed at Duke University
were selected to demonstrate their products at the iMatSci Innovator Showcase

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * 1
  * 2
  * 3
  * 4
  * next ›
  * last »

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

