

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

engineers

Duke's signature undergraduate experience to cultivate **confident creators**

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » Publications

# Inspiring Engineers

What does **tomorrow’s engineer** need to know? What strengths will shape the
future? At Duke Engineering, we’re thinking hard about these questions, and
preparing creative engineers who are **inspired & equipped** to solve complex
societal problems.

Duke Engineering's signature educational experience immerses students in
**hands-on design, data science, computing, research and entrepreneurship**
from the very beginning—and engages them in teamwork on real projects with
real clients throughout their engineering education.

**Engineering is exciting** —and we believe giving students the experience of
how engineers can make a difference will not only give them a sense of purpose
and motivation to pursue this challenging path, but ultimately help them gain:

  * **_Ability to generate creative solutions to complex, open-ended
    problems_**
  * **_Rigorous research, analytical, quantitative and critical-thinking
    skills_**
  * **_Comfort with design, data and computational tools_**
  * **_Experience working in diverse teams_**
  * **_Excellent communication skills_**
  * **_Entrepreneurial confidence_**

We see these qualities as the **hallmarks of a Duke Engineer** —complementing
the strong interdisciplinary research engagement and educational breadth that
Duke University is known for, and preparing our students for high-potential
paths in industry, academia, entrepreneurship and public service.

## Foundational Experiences

### Real-World Design

Every Duke Engineering student get their hands busy with real-world design in
the very first semester.

### Data & Decision Sciences

By teaching students to leverage statistical analysis to glean useful insights
from complex, real-world datasets, a new course aims to make data competency a
signature strength of every Duke Engineering undergraduate

### Computational Thinking

By weaving in real-world projects, Duke Engineering is piloting a new approach
to introductory computing that seeks to give students not only a strong
foundation in programming skills, but a vision of coding as a creative tool

### Mentored Research

Duke Engineering offers students unparalleled opportunities to conduct
original research with faculty advisors. Almost 70 percent of our
undergraduates engage in intensive research, with one in five either
publishing or presenting a paper off campus before graduating.

### Entrepreneurial Confidence

From a “Founder’s Workshop” course to a $20,000 Innovation Grant competition,
Duke Engineering is investing in new initiatives to help undergraduates turn
their ideas into impactful solutions

View the publication

## DATA & DECISION SCIENCES

Learn how we have reimagined our students' introduction to statistical
analysis.

## DESIGN FROM DAY ONE

See how Duke Engineering students are solving real-world engineering
challenges in our new first-year design experience.

## Duke and KEEN: National Partnership

Duke Engineering is a proud and active member of **KEEN, the Kern
Entrepreneurial Network** —a national partnership of engineering faculty
focused on developing and promoting innovation in engineering education for
the good of society.

Through KEEN, Duke faculty share relevant best practices, course content
modules and pedagogical innovations—all with the goal of equipping young
engineers with an entrepreneurial mindset that can make significant positive
impacts in the world.

More about Duke and KEEN »

## To get involved, please contact:

### Linda Franzoni

Associate Dean for Undergraduate Education  
franzoni@duke.edu

### Jim Ruth

Associate Dean and Director of Development  
james.ruth@duke.edu

Visit undergraduate admissions

## **Inspiring Engineers** :  
The Signature Duke Engineering Undergraduate Experience

Foundational Experiences + Disciplinary Depth + Connected Community =
Confident Creators

### Foundational Experiences

Innovative core courses and extensive co-curricular opportunities

  * Engineering Design
  * Data & Decision Sciences
  * Computational Thinking
  * Mentored Research
  * Entrepreneurship

### Disciplinary Depth

Intensive majors, plus extensive opportunities for double-majors, minors and
certificates across Duke

  * Biomedical Engineering
  * Civil Engineering
  * Environmental Engineering
  * Electrical & Computer Engineering
  * Mechanical Engineering
  * Energy Engineering (minor)

### Connected Community

Engagement and support that opens doors and minds

  * Personal faculty advisors
  * Supportive, committed peers
  * Engaged alumni network
  * Extensive industry partnerships
  * Internship and career services
  * Global connections (study abroad, service-learning opportunities)

### Confident Creators

With signature strengths to maximize impact in academia, industry, public
service and policy

  * Ability to generate creative solutions to complex, open-ended problems
  * Rigorous research, analytical, quantitative and critical-thinking skills
  * Comfort with design, data and computational tools
  * Experience working in diverse teams
  * Excellent communication skills
  * Entrepreneurial confidence

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

