

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2021

# Engineering Entrepreneurship: An Engine for Innovation

April 1, 2021 | Philip Liu

Duke Engineering’s new “EngEn” initiative serves as a catalyst for the
creation of high-impact products and cutting-edge technology

“I have an idea!”

These well-known words have been exclaimed by innumerable engineering students
hoping to build products that will grow to be the next Microsoft or Apple. A
new initiative to develop lifelong innovators, Duke Engineering
Entrepreneurship (EngEn), serves as a catalyst for the creation of high-impact
products and cutting-edge technology. Best described by Associate Dean of
Entrepreneurship Ken Gall, “EngEn is an engine for innovation—driving the
cycle of problem identification, solution development and the robust launch of
new ventures.”

The program is spearheaded by talented engineers, successful entrepreneurs and
renowned professors working together throughout the entire life cycle of an
idea. EngEn integrates entrepreneurial education, needs-driven design
experiences and startup resources to support fledging student, staff and
faculty inventors. In the prior fiscal year alone, EngEn assisted in some of
the 132 invention disclosures, 37 issued patents, 49 sponsored research
agreements and 54 spin-off companies originating in faculty research.

Duke EngEn currently sponsors 15 unique programs and resources while
partnering with 12 peer initiatives and organizations. Undergraduate
educational initiatives, such as the A. James Clark Scholars Program and the
Student Founders Program, offer coaching, skills training, workshops and a
supportive entrepreneurial community.

Filip Bartel, a junior majoring in civil engineering, highlighted the
mentorship and community of EngEn as a major draw toward the program. “Being
mentored by professors who are entrepreneurs themselves has been valuable,
since they share mistakes to avoid and tips for success from their own
experiences,” said Bartel.

Meanwhile, paths like the Entrepreneurship & Founders Track of Duke’s Master
of Engineering Management Program or the Master’s Certificate in Medical
Device Design are popular with graduate students focused on expanding their
entrepreneurial skillset.

A key component of EngEn is fostering innovation within the Pratt student
body, both undergraduate and graduate. Mentored by Gall, three engineering
undergraduates founded Protect3d, a company using 3D modeling technology to
produce custom-built protective devices for athletes. Protect3d went on to win
the NFL’s 1st and Future Innovation Competition, netting $50,000 to invest in
the company.

Another start-up founded by Duke students, OptiML Solutions, received support
from EngEn to develop a portable imaging device and a machine learning model
that can diagnose eye diseases quickly and cheaply.

Besides providing support for start-ups, EngEn is fostering a diverse and
inclusive community of inventors who work together with a common goal of
improving society. Marcellus Jordan, a junior majoring in mechanical
engineering, says, “Since my first day as a Black engineering student, Pratt
entrepreneurship has been very inclusive and even helped me arrange a study
abroad in South Africa to work at a tech startup.” In hopes of combating the
inequalities of public education, he plans to invent an affordable robotics
kit that allows underfunded students to gain exposure to STEM.

In response to the emergence of COVID-19, EngEn responded by helping to create
the Duke COVID-19 Engineering Response Team. Collaborating with the Innovation
Co-Lab and Duke MEDx, among others, the team aims to increase Duke Health’s
inventory of vital protective gear and medical equipment. Among other
projects, the team has developed a custom powered air-purifying respirator
(PAPR) system and shared the design with over 80 institutions, manufactured
more than 30,000 reusable 3D-printed face shields (with a goal to produce
75,000 units), and built 200 hand sanitizer dispensers to aid the reopening of
Duke research laboratories. The work closely reflects the notable Duke Design
Health program, which connects engineering and business graduate students to
medical trainees with the goal of developing needs-based solutions for the
medical field.

EngEn also has plans for expanding the scope and breadth of the programming
they offer. Opened in November 2020, Duke Engineering’s new Wilkinson Building
provides two additional spaces for entrepreneurship, mirroring EngEn’s
comprehensive problem-to-design-to-launch process. A Center for Innovation
will empower founders to investigate and uncover societal needs as well as
develop and validate unique tech solutions. A Center for Entrepreneurship will
support founders who are launching new products, services and companies. In
addition, anyone can schedule one-on-one consultation meetings at these
centers to converse with experienced advisors about potential ideas.

Bill Walker, the Mattson Family Director of Engineering Entrepreneurship,
emphasizes a focus on values embedded within EngEn’s approach and teachings.
“Values build us up as people and allow us to build organizations that are
meaningful. I want students to be curious, open to ideas, resilient, ethical,
focused on impact, diversity-valuing, empathetic and aware of the world around
them,” he said.

EngEn isn’t just building great innovations to address societal needs in
health, defense, climate change and more—the initiative is building great
people, students and leaders.

**_Philip Liu is a junior studying mechanical engineering, economics, and I
&E._**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2021

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

