

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2021

# Revolutionizing Neurosurgical Planning With the Use of Holograms

April 1, 2021 | Hope Pratt

Cameron McIntyre brings to Duke a long history of translating innovations in
Deep Brain Stimulation into commercial medical devices

Movement disorders have outwit-ted researchers for decades. The brain’s
complex neurological structure makes the treatment of Parkinson’s, essential
tremor, dystonia and other motor disturbances risky and inadequate. But Deep
Brain Stimulation (DBS), a revolutionary clinical procedure, has brought hope
to patients who suffer from these illnesses.

DBS calls for the implantation of a small pacemaker under a patient’s
clavicle. Insulated wires carry electrical pulses from the pacemaker to the
basal ganglia, a region of the brain that is responsible for planning
movement. The results can be astounding—tremors dissipate and motor control
improves. However, positive outcomes are not always guaranteed.

Cameron McIntyre, a pioneer in the field of DBS, has created holographic
platforms to allow neurosurgeons to visualize the brain’s anatomy in three
dimensions. These tools can be used to help surgical teams plan a patient’s
DBS surgery. This July, Duke will welcome McIntyre to the faculty of the
Department of Biomedical Engineering and the Department of Neurosurgery.

McIntyre has a BS and PhD in biomedical engineering from Case Western Reserve
University. Additionally, he received postdoctoral training from Johns Hopkins
University and Emory University, where he studied DBS.

In McIntyre’s freshman Introduction to Bio-medical Engineering class, he was
introduced to electrical stimulation by a guest lecturer, Hunter Peckham, the
Donnell Professor of Biomedical Engineering and Orthopaedics at Case Western.
Peckham is known for his groundbreaking research on the use of electrical
stimulation and implantable devices to activate otherwise unresponsive areas
of the body. During this presentation, Peckham brought in research subjects as
examples of his work. McIntyre witnessed a patient with spinal cord injuries
using a hand which had previously been immobile. This was achieved through the
implantation of electrodes, devices that carry electrical pulses to specific
areas of the body. These subjects demonstrated the incredible effects of
electrical stimulation technology.

McIntyre describes this presentation as life-changing. “I just remember
thinking, I don’t really know what I want to do with my life, but if I could
do something like that, that would be cool.”

McIntyre began working with Warren Grill, who was a junior faculty member at
Case Western at the time. Grill, now a professor of biomedical engineering at
Duke, teamed up with McIntyre to research the effects of using electrical
stimulation in spinal cord therapy. McIntyre continued to pursue this research
as he began his PhD at Case Western.

Near the end of McIntyre’s PhD studies, at the start of the new millennium,
DBS became available as a clinical treatment in the US. However, as DBS was
still new, most scientists were not exploring its possibilities. McIntyre, on
the other hand, found DBS fascinating. He saw it as an “opportunity that would
take engineering knowledge and put it into something that might be clinically
relevant.” He wanted to expand the viable treatments available to patients
with movement disorders.

McIntyre’s lab at Case Western is currently using its research on neurology,
neuro-anatomy and DBS to create tools that make neurosurgery more effective.
These tools are holographic visualization platforms for neurosurgical
planning, which McIntyre describes as “based primarily on a Microsoft HoloLens
2 Headset—a head-mounted display that gives you a simulation of a 3D hologram
in the space around you.” This technology is a new way to visualize data, and
one that can be applied to very specific neurosurgical procedures. With this
device, surgeons are able to see both the real world and an augmented visual
state, a hologram.

> This technology is a new way to visualize data, and one that can be applied
> to very specific neurosurgical procedures. With this device, surgeons are
> able to see both the real world and an augmented visual state, a hologram.

Before a neurosurgeon can perform a complex surgery, they must first set aside
hours to plan out the case and the procedure. Many parts of a neurosurgical
procedure are difficult to visualize, due to the brain’s complicated anatomy.
McIntyre’s holographic platforms give neurosurgeons an effective way to
visualize the brain.

The holographic visualization platforms McIntyre and his team developed are
currently academic prototypes. The next step McIntyre could take with these
tools is to commercialize them and put the instruments into clinical practice.
However, the process of commercialization is long and arduous, involving years
of testing and clinical trials before achieving FDA approval.

Fortunately, McIntyre is not new to the field of commercialization. His first
startup company created a software tool to help neurologists customize
stimulation parameters for individual patients. After that, he created
software to help neurosurgeons identify target locations in a patient’s brain
for electrodes. Now, his newest company provides clinical education to
neurosurgeons and neurologists on the operation of DBS tools. He uses
holographic representations in his training.

McIntyre’s business success has taught him important skills. He says all
entrepreneurial engineers should learn three things.

“First, learn how to solve the problem,” he says. “Second, learn how to
identify the right problem. Third, learn how to identify the right problem to
solve that is also financially viable.”

During the COVID-19 pandemic, McIntyre has also learned to be flexible. He and
his team work remotely but are as productive as ever.

McIntyre is excited to join Duke’s collaborative community this summer. “One
of the things that’s very special about Duke,” says McIntyre, “is that you
have a really great medical center and a really great engineering center
within a hundred yards of each other.” This proximity promotes collaboration
between top experts in many fields, including neurosurgery, neuroscience,
machine learning and engineering.

“That’s an academic person’s dream,” says McIntyre. “That’s where ideas come
from, and that’s where technology comes from.” And, coming from Cleveland,
Ohio, he is especially looking forward to North Carolina’s warm weather—the
sunshine and the lack of snow!

**_Hope Pratt is a freshman from New Jersey planning to major in biomedical
engineering._**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2021

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

