Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# A Tribute to Dean George Pearsall

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About
  3. History

George W. Pearsall was an internationally recognized research engineer and
engineering education innovator who served as dean of engineering twice, from
1969 to 1974 and 1982 to 1983

During more than 30 years at Duke, Dean Pearsall made a profound and positive
impact on the MEMS department and upon the Pratt School of Engineering. This
page is a tribute to a beloved leader, teacher, mentor and friend to hundreds
of students and colleagues.

The George W. Pearsall Distinguished Lecture Series was created by the faculty
in 2013 as a lasting tribute.

In this 2014 video created for the Pratt School of Engineering's 75th
anniversary, Dean Pearsall provided his thoughts on engineering education and
research at Duke and the school’s history:

## Biography

George Pearsall was born and raised on Long Island, NY. He served honorably in
the U.S. Army during the Korean War. Later, he earned a Bachelor of
Metallurgical Engineering degree from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and
then joined Dow Chemical as a research engineer.

Dean George W. Pearsall, Sc.D., PE

In 1961, he received a Doctor of Science degree from the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology (MIT), and served on the MIT faculty for four years
before coming to Duke. His research focused on material failure analysis and
its relationship to product safety and design.

During his time at Duke, he was a founding trustee of the Triangle
Universities Center for Advanced Studies, Inc. (TUCASI), which facilitated the
location of the National Humanities Center, the Microelectronics Center of
North Carolina, and the North Carolina Biotechnology Center in Research
Triangle Park. He helped initiate Duke's Program in Science, Technology, and
Human Values, and he was the first director of an experimental program at Duke
in Technology and the Liberal Arts.

He received the Triodyne Safety Award from the American Society of Mechanical
Engineers (ASME) in 2001 for his contributions to safe design practices.

Dean Pearsall died on February 21, 2016, at age 82.

## Remembrances

Colleagues and former students offer their remembrances of Dean Pearsall:

Dennis Brickman, E'84

    

I received a BSE from the department in 1984. My undergraduate curriculum
consisted of taking practically every course that Dr. Pearsall taught,
including failure analysis, safe product design, polymers, and aesthetics
design and culture. I still recall drawing a tree in the Duke Gardens in my
idea sketch book for his aesthetics course. Dr. Pearsall also was my faculty
advisor for my departmental distinction project on the failure of a granite
press roll.

Dr. Pearsall was instrumental in guiding me on my career path as a mechanical
engineering safety and design consultant serving as an expert witness in
product liability matters. During my safe product design course at Duke, Dr.
Pearsall directed me to the Triodyne safety library near my hometown in
Chicago to perform research on my final course project. After graduating from
Duke, I was employed at Triodyne for over 20 years as a safety consultant, due
in large part to my unique safety education at Duke. It gives me great joy to
reflect that Dr. Pearsall was awarded the ASME Triodyne lifetime safety
achievement award for his contributions to the field based upon Dr. Dev Garg's
nomination. Dr. Garg was my undergraduate faculty advisor at Duke. In fact, I
had the honor of receiving Dr. Pearsall's award in New York City in 2001,
since George's plane was canceled at the last minute due to the American
Airlines plane crash near Far Rockaway two months after 9/11.

During my professional consulting career, I have had the distinct pleasure of
working with Dr. Pearsall on an accident investigation consultation in
Providence, R.I., where we spent a delightful afternoon hiking in the woods to
inspect the location of a brush cutter accident.

My fondest memory of Dr. Pearsall is dining together with my 10 year old son
at a Durham steakhouse. My son was going to Duke to attend the Coach K summer
basketball camp. George picked us up at the RDU airport sporting his
seersucker sport jacket in 90 degree heat and chauffeured us to dinner. After
hiking to the bottom of the Grand Canyon last week with my now-16 year-old-son
and eating a steak upon reaching the top of the south rim, my son informed me
that it tasted great, but still did not compare to the steak we shared with
George in North Carolina at the Angus Barn restaurant.

As my 53rd birthday is approaches in May 2016, I am mindful that I am now of
Dr. Pearsall's age during my time at Duke. I can recall George teaching me in
his safety class that the most important quality is your reputation. I try to
live by Dr. Pearsall's example every day as a role model, teacher, mentor,
advisor, colleague, and fanatic for Duke sports. George has played a
tremendous role in influencing my positive life career path and for that I am
eternally grateful.

In March 2016, my high school sophomore son Jason participated in a National
Science Olympiad competition at MIT. He is very interested in pursuing an
education in biomedical engineering in the years to come. I can only smile
inside knowing that Dr. Pearsall has sparked interest in the next generation
of scientists and engineers.

**Dennis Brickman, P.E., E'84**

F. Hadley Cocks

    

I was lucky to have met George during his years at MIT, when he was an
assistant professor and I was a graduate student. We both had offices on the
second floor of Building 35 in the Department of Metallurgy.

After George left MIT to come to Duke, I visited him several times on the way
to Greensboro where my wife’s parents lived. This would have been around
1966-1972. It was during one of these visits that George told me about the
availability of a position in the mechanical engineering department, and the
rest is history.

It was in the 1960s that the Accreditation Board of Engineering and Technology
decided that mechanical engineers must take one course in materials science.
George’s first task at Duke was to create that course and build a laboratory
to go with it.

That course and that teaching laboratory continue to this day. He was a
terrific lecturer, and his extensive and successful experience as an expert
witness in numerous legal cases involving the role of materials in safe
product design provided him with a wealth of stories with which he entranced
generations of students.

He was a terrific and memorable teacher, and we were lucky to have had him be
one of us.

**F. Hadley Cocks  
Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science**

Earl Dowell

    

I met George Pearsall in the summer of 1983, when he was concluding his second
tour of duty as dean of what is today the Pratt School of Engineering.

George had first served as Dean from 1969 to 1974. In 1969, George was 36 or
so and, as best I can tell, the youngest person ever to become dean of our
school. By 1983, George had seen it all, or at least a good deal, and was very
helpful to the next dean coming on board.

George had witnessed the transition in American science that followed Sputnik.
The launch of that Soviet satellite in 1957 turned on the research funding
spigot in Washington, and the consequent strong growth of graduate education
in the United States – particularly in the STEM fields – that has continued to
this day. Pursuing the path of sponsored research was not George's thing,
however, yet he was one of the most intellectually alive of our faculty.

George truly had a passion for learning and for sharing that passion with our
remarkable students, especially undergraduates. He also was interdisciplinary
before that became fashionable, and in a more serious way than many. For
example, he taught a course on structure, alongside a zoologist and a
sculptor, to many fortunate students.

George had a gift for communication that led to success as an expert witness
and as an informal ambassador for our school across the university and beyond.

The gift from Tom Lord that established the Lord Foundation and co-ownership
of the Lord Corporation by Duke, the Cleveland Clinic, MIT and the University
of Southern California was in significant part a result of the personal
friendship George established with Don Alstadt, a key adviser to Tom Lord and
the CEO and then-chairman of the board of the Lord Corporation after Tom Lord
passed away.

When I would speak to those across the Duke, I would frequently be asked, "Do
you know George?" Many did, and had a favorable impression of engineering as a
result.

George loved Duke and was tolerant and even encouraging of change, although he
did always embrace the speed and direction. He was an important part of our
history in MEMS, and of the Pratt School of Engineering and Duke University.
Those of us fortunate to know and work with him are blessed, as indeed we all
are.

**Earl Dowell  
William Holland Hall Professor of Mechanical Engineering**

David Erdman, E'71

    

George Pearsall was an inspiring man. We engineering students of the late
1960s viewed him as the smartest and most approachable engineering professor.
Every student who knew him was delighted and enthusiastic when he was
announced as Dean of Engineering. As he was for most engineering students, he
was my materials professor.

I was privileged to work closely with Dean Pearsall in my role as president of
the Engineers Student Government 1970-1971. My class of 1971 began with
approximately 120 engineering students. We graduated only 77. Duke Engineering
was at its lowest point ever.

I went to Dean Pearsall with a proposal to recruit students to Duke
Engineering. He approved and supported the plan to entertain promising high
school seniors with a weekend of Duke engineering. Likewise, he was concerned
both to hear from students and to take the action that would benefit them the
most.

No person during his era did more that George Pearsall to assure the survival
and renaissance of engineering at Duke.

**David Erdman  
BSE 1971 (Biomedical Engineering)  
Member, Pratt School of Engineering Board of Visitors**

Devendra P. Garg

    

I met George Pearsall in early 1972 while he was serving as dean of
engineering at Duke. George was a very innovative researcher and a terrific
teacher. He had a charming personality and was extremely supportive of new
ideas.

George always loved opportunities for integration of engineering with the
social sciences and humanities. Duke had recently established the Institute of
Policy Sciences and Public Affairs, and George was interested in having a
closer relationship between the School of Engineering and the Institute via
development of interdisciplinary courses, collaborative research projects, and
adjunct faculty appointments.

With George’s strong support, some of us in the School of Engineering and some
faculty members from the Trinity College of Arts and Sciences established a
certificate program in Science, Technology, and Human Values (STHV). Under
this program George developed and taught the course number EGR175 entitled
“Aesthetics, Design, and Culture.” This course was also cross-listed as Public
Policy Studies (PPS) 175. Similarly, I developed and team-taught an
interdisciplinary course number EGR174 entitled “Technology Assessment and
Social Choice” in collaboration with Professor Tom McCollough of the
Department of Religion. This course was also cross-listed as REL174 and
PPS174. George held an adjunct professorship in the Department of Public
Policy Studies.

My two daughters, Nisha and Seema, also graduated from the School of
Engineering. They too, like an untold number of engineering students, have
very fond memories of their interactions with George. They sought and received
invaluable advice from George when needed. We are all most fortunate to have
known George Pearsall, served as his colleagues, and enjoyed his cordial
friendship.

**Devendra P. Garg  
Emeritus Professor of Mechanical Engineering**

Anand Kasbekar E'85

    

I wanted to share a few memories regarding George Pearsall who was a mentor,
good friend, and colleague.

I first met Dean Pearsall in 1982 as a freshman in the Department of
Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science, where he and Dr. Phillip Jones,
Dr. Hadley Cocks, and Dr. Marion Shepard became key figures with regard to my
education and my career as an engineer.

This group of professors were role models for the type of faculty that Duke
promotes as part of the culture that makes Duke University a unique learning
environment in which students can develop strong and lasting relationships
with their professors. I am proud to say that Dean Pearsall, along with each
one of these other faculty members, became a good friend as I progressed
through graduate school and entered into my professional career as an
engineer.

I had the opportunity to take several classes with Dean Pearsall as an
undergraduate and graduate student at the Pratt School of Engineering. As a
professional, I was fortunate to have worked with him on several matters
involving product failures, even as recently as last year during which he made
himself as readily available to me as he did over 30 years ago when I was an
undergraduate student.

I will miss his visits to Durham and the great times we spent together.  
  
**Anand Kasbekar, BSE 1985, MS 1987, PhD 1994**

Miguel A. Medina, Jr.

    

I arrived at Duke in the fall of 1976 as a very young and inexperienced
assistant professor of civil engineering. The School of Engineering was small,
and it did not take very long to meet all of the faculty. I was immediately
impressed with George Pearsall – with his intelligence, his eloquence, his
elucidation of the unclear, and his incisive description of the mission of an
engineering faculty member given our size. His infectious laughter, sense of
humor and optimism were a magnet toward seeking his company and advice.

George and his wife Pat attended all of the social events, and played an
important role in doing so, inspiring us to grow with the school. My wife
Maggie and I naturally gravitated to join them, and were uplifted by their
presence.

After the tragic and untimely death of Dean Alex Vesiç, George served again as
dean of engineering from 1982 to 1983. His tenure had a calming effect on both
faculty and students, and undoubtedly facilitated the arrival of Earl Dowell
as our next dean. George left a lasting impression on all of us, particularly
our undergraduates. His impact was felt well beyond engineering, by inclusion
of talent throughout Duke in many of his initiatives. His legacy of excellence
in teaching, providing real-life product failure examples in his lectures, is
a model for the quality of education Duke engineering students should expect.

I was fortunate to have known him, to have profited from his sage advice, and
I will always remember that laughter.

**Miguel A. Medina, Jr.  
Professor Emeritus of Civil and Environmental Engineering**

David Needham

    

I came to Duke Engineering in 1987, and joined the Department of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science (MEMS). As a chemist, I was assigned to
teach "Structure and Properties of Solids” – the foundation materials course,
E83.

I believe this was George’s course in which he not only lectured on all
aspects of materials science and engineering with consummate ease, he also
introduced a series of labs with practical significance. On day one, students
had to go out into the real-world and find an engineering part, bring it back
to the lab, and analyze it in terms of its composition-structure-property
relationships that supported its function and mechanism of action.

He established this course because he saw an opportunity to recruit students
into the department by offering a course that he knew all engineers, at some
point, needed to understand. In those early years, I would go to his office,
and negotiate the initial maze of book shelves, and the piles of papers and
books on the floor, that he nevertheless had categorized, and squeeze into the
visitor seat. His "door was always open", and he would share his experiences
in a way that helped me to integrate into Duke, engineering, and especially
the MEMS family. We would discuss teaching, learning, and various materials,
art and design which he saw as being very closely connected, and also offered
another class where he shared this perspective.

One thing stands out in my mind that has fundamentally influenced my own
learner-centric educational methods. He said, "The goal of teaching is not to
cover the material in class, but to uncover it."

This sage-advice is just one snippet of the wisdom that George had and freely
shared, the integrity and real-world perspective that he brought to his
academic role, as well as to his other successful career of engineering
consulting. This integration of academic engineering with real-world problems
was perhaps his hallmark.

I also remember, he easily laughed; he was pure joy.

**David Needham PhD, DSc (Nottingham)  
Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Material Science**

Thomas Woodard, E'69

    

As a member of the Class of 1969, I remember George Pearsall as an
extraordinary professor and a caring human being.

A "B" student, I earned an A+ from George in his demanding Materials Science
course, where he passed on his deep expertise in material failure analysis in
the most compelling way – in the lab. In the spring, George and Pat could be
found, with about 20 other stalwarts (including me), on the sidelines of a
Duke lacrosse game. He'd pull up in his bug-eyed Austin-Healey Sprite, top
down, and watch a "club" game that was years away from becoming the popular
varsity sport we know today. We would chat and laugh and he'd remind me that I
probably should have been studying. In my senior year, George said to me:
"Woodard, one day, when you decide to work hard, you're really going to make
somethings of yourself." Three years later I decided to apply to Harvard
Business School. There was only one professor at Duke I could possibly ask to
write a required "past professor" recommendation. One professor who I knew
would not only remember me, but remember me in a positive light. George must
have written a beauty, because I was admitted – and later graduated as a Baker
Scholar. George's confidence in me, something he saw early on, was a powerful
motivation.

I was fortunate to serve on and later chair Earl Dowell's Engineering Dean's
Council – later the Board of Visitors. So I was able to stay in regular touch
with George, visiting him whenever I came on campus. Away from the office, he
and Pat were always together it seemed. You could palpably feel the love they
shared. No matter what, Pat had the same happy disposition that George exuded.

I have no doubt that my story – how one man could have so profoundly
influenced one life - must have been repeated literally thousands of times.
George will be remembered for all he did for Duke, but even more so for all he
did for so many men and women who had the good fortune to intersect with his
life.

**Thomas Woodard  
BSE 1969**

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

