

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » Podcast

# The Chemical Detective

November 30, 2021

What’s in our drinking water? Duke professor of civil and environmental
engineering Lee Ferguson uses non-targeted analysis to gather clues about
chemical contaminants, making it possible to identify them and trace them back
to their points of origin.

## Listen

## Show Notes

Update: Learn how the Ferguson Lab's expertise in mass spectrometry is helping
to identify the cause of a cluster of chronic kidney disease cases in Sri
Lanka.

## Transcript

[Bells/intro music]

 **Miranda Volborth:** This is Rate of Change, a podcast from Duke University
dedicated to the ingenious ways that engineers are solving society’s toughest
problems. I’m Miranda Volborth, and today I’m talking to Lee Ferguson, an
environmental chemist and professor of civil and environmental engineering at
Duke University. But for the purpose of this podcast, let’s think of Lee as a
detective– a chemical detective, who uncovers clues about unknown water
contaminants that help them to be identified and traced back to a source.
Let’s set the scene.

June 7, 2017: the Wilmington Star-News breaks the story of an emerging
contaminant that has been found at significant levels in the Cape Fear River,
which supplies Wilmington, North Carolina with about 80% of its drinking
water.

The chemical was eventually identified as GenX, and traced to the Chemours
Company’s Fayetteville Works plant, situated about 100 miles upstream of
Wilmington. That plant was using GenX to produce Teflon, the nonstick material
coating our pots and pans.

GenX is chemically similar to an entire class of compounds that are known to
be problematic for human health and the environment—per and poly fluorinated
alkyl substances, or PFAS. These compounds are really useful in consumer
products because they’re highly resistant to degradation—but, that same
quality also makes them difficult to remove from water. In fact, this class of
compounds is known as “forever chemicals.”

 **Lee Ferguson:** The discovery of GenX in the Cape Fear River was actually
quite an accident. Mark Strynar at EPA had just purchased a high-resolution
mass spectrometer for the first time, and he was starting to test that system…
During that process, they happened upon some compounds that nobody had seen
before in environmental waters, and were certainly not being monitored
anywhere in the country, and certainly not in the Cape Fear River. Alarmingly,
they found that these molecules are very persistent, and they're making their
way through drinking water treatment processes, and contaminating the drinking
water of Wilmington, North Carolina, as well as a number of other communities
down the Cape Fear River.

 **Volborth:** But how was this mystery chemical eventually identified and
traced to a source? It’s thanks to that specialized piece of equipment that
Mark Stryner was testing out.

 **Ferguson:** The equipment that we rely on is a high-resolution mass
spectrometer. This is a device that is able to measure with very, very high
precision and accuracy the molecular weight of many, many, many molecules in a
sample at very, very low concentration. Okay? At its core, that's what the
equipment does, and so there's really two aspects that are important here, the
accuracy with which you can measure the mass, and therefore, get clues to the
identity to the different molecules, and then also the sensitivity that we can
measure those molecules to.

A relevant question that we might ask is, "What's in our water?" It's a very
open question, and it seems like the obvious question. It's much more
difficult to answer that question scientifically than we might expect. In most
cases in environmental regulation and environmental assessment, those analyses
are made on a molecule-by-molecule basis. We decide a priori which chemicals
we are going to look for in a water sample, or a human sample, or a food
sample. And we go, and we target those molecules, and it's almost like putting
blinders on a horse. You see only what's in front of you.

 **Volborth:** There are a few hundred substances on the priority pollutants
list established by EPA. Those are substances that are regulated. Those
regulations are enforceable. So it makes some kind of sense to look for them
on a case by case basis. But— there are about 85,000 chemicals in use that are
not yet regulated, including but certainly not limited to PFAS.

 **Ferguson:** EPA doesn't necessarily have the ability to maintain focus on
all potential emerging pollutants that might cause health effects in drinking
water and in water supplies. So just because EPA isn't monitoring for it
doesn't necessarily make a compound safe, and so it really has fallen to
researchers, to academic researchers in many cases, to do this kind of work,
where we are essentially performing environmental reconnaissance and forensics
to try to understand what are the compounds that are slipping through the
regulatory cracks.

We use what I like to term a chemical fingerprint approach to do this.
Molecules, just like individual people, have specific characteristics. They
have identities, and to be able to observe and to assign those identities, we
need to measure the properties of those molecules as accurately as we can. So
if you think about facial recognition to try to identify a single person in a
concert venue, we can imagine the same corollary to being able to fingerprint,
and identify, and isolate individual molecules in a chemical soup.

 **Volborth:** What do those fingerprints look like?

 **Ferguson:** Sure. This is the hard part of doing high-resolution mass
spectrometry. Whereas our eyes as humans are really sort of tuned to
understand a face or a fingerprint, an actual human face or a human
fingerprint. We can understand and visually see the difference between
individuals. We are not trained as humans to be able to recognize
intrinsically the differences between chemical fingerprints.

Therefore, we have to rely on software approaches, things like machine
learning and other types of data reduction techniques to be able to interpret
the spectrum, which is a mass spectrum that is output by the mass
spectrometer, and to take those spectra, and turn them into chemical
structures that chemists like myself can understand and compare with each
other. And the process of going from spectrum to structure is extremely
complex, and it's also an active area of research currently on how we actually
make those correlations.

And so there are specific chemical reactions that happen in these mass
spectrometers, which result in the chemical spectra and the mass spectra that
we actually measure. And so the data reduction is one of the hardest parts
about this entire process, and it's really led me down quite a rabbit hole
from being a wet chemist, bench chemist, to learning how to do complex data
processing and data science routines, using things like machine learning and
other kinds of approaches to take information and turn it into knowledge, and
that's what our algorithms are designed to do.

 **Volborth:** Lee really became involved with the GenX situation in 2018,
because of his expertise in environmental chemistry.

 **Ferguson:** The North Carolina Coastal Federation asked me to speak on
their behalf in front of the North Carolina general assembly about the issues
of unregulated contaminants in our water supplies. And this was initiated, of
course, as a direct result of the GenX contamination in the Cape Fear River.
However, the legislature was worried about whether this could be a bigger
problem.

What if there were unrecognized and emerging contaminants that are in water
supplies in other areas of North Carolina that simply had not been detected?
So we set out to develop a monitoring network, and this monitoring network is
termed the Per- and Polyfluorinated Alkyl Substances Testing Network, or PFAST
Network, and it's a consortium of researchers from all the major universities
in the state. And we have gone around to every public water supply in the
state of North Carolina, and tested those waters for this class of per- and
polyfluorinated alkyl substance, or PFAS.

 **Volborth:** Lee’s team spent a year and a half driving around the state to
collect samples from more than 400 sites, that they brought back to the lab
for analysis.

 **Ferguson:** Now, in many cases, we found exactly what we expected. So for
example, in the Cape Fear River, unsurprisingly to us, we found elevated
levels of PFAS compounds coming from the Chemours Fayetteville Works Plant.
However, in some cases we were surprised. One of the biggest surprises that we
encountered was the small town of Maysville North Carolina, which it's just a
small community in Eastern North Carolina that relies on a single drinking
water well, and that drinking water well pulls from an aquifer that is
somewhere around 100 to 300 feet below the surface. That drinking water well
at some point had been contaminated by what we believe is firefighting foams
that contain PFAS.

So, of course, their water at Maysville, the water supply had never before
been tested for PFAS chemicals, because as I mentioned, these compounds are
not on any regulatory list. So there are no set water quality criteria for
these compounds currently. When we measured the drinking water supply from
Maysville, we found that several of these PFAS compounds were present at
levels higher than the EPA's health advisory level that they had published for
two specific PFAS compounds, perfluorooctanoic acid and perfluorooctane
sulfonate. We immediately notified the town, and we notified their
representatives in the general assembly, and we notified the utility that was
responsible for this water supply.

Within a matter of days, we were able to verify that their neighboring
community, Jones county, had water that was devoid of measurable PFAS
compounds, and they were able to switch their water supply over to the Jones
County supply.

 **Volborth:** Water from the Haw River, sampled not too far downstream of the
Greensboro’s textile mills, were covered in suspicious chemical fingerprints,
leading Lee and his Duke colleague Heather Stapleton, to delve more deeply
into what these chemicals were and where they had entered the river. At this
point, their guess is that the mills manufacturing stain-resistant textiles is
probably the culprit.

Of course, chemical contamination of drinking water is not limited to North
Carolina—it’s just that we have the network in place to help detect it. In
fact, Lee is putting this experience to work for communities halfway across
the world.

 **Ferguson:** The project that we've initiated in Sri Lanka with my
colleague, Nishad Jayasundara, he's a new faculty in the Nicholas School of
the environment… there's a phenomenon called a CKDu, chronic kidney disease of
unknown etiology. And so this is a phenomenon that is happening around the
world, including actually areas here in North Carolina, in southeastern North
Carolina, but in Sri Lanka, there are a number of communities that have
experienced chronic kidney disease in populations that don't seem to be
associated with any particular genetic risk, or sort of there's very few other
population factors that seem to explain the occurrence of this disease.

There is some indication that the incidents of the disease may be connected to
water supplies, and specifically water supplies that are associated with
agricultural areas in Sri Lanka. And so it turns out that in Sri Lanka, as
well as many other places, pesticides and herbicides are used quite frequently
in agricultural processes, and because of limited resources for water
treatment, it's possible that many of those agrochemicals may be entering the
water supplies of the people in the area. And so what we are working on is to
try to examine and assess links between specific water contaminants as well as
non-targeted analysis of water to understand what are the types of chemicals
that might be present in these water supplies that are associated with high
incidents of kidney disease.

So I'm sending one of my grad students over to Sri Lanka. He's leaving in
about a week along with Nishad Jayasundara to collect water samples, and to
bring them back here to do detailed chemical analysis to understand those
chemical fingerprints. And so our hypothesis is that specific chemical
fingerprints and specific chemical agrochemicals species are associated with
this chronic kidney disease in these areas, and so that's what we're going to
be testing over the next months to years.

 **Volborth:** What’s the outcome you’re hoping for, Lee? What’s your grand
vision?

 **Ferguson:** In the end, with all of this water quality work that we're
doing, and all the technology development that we've been participating in in
our laboratory to develop these non-targeted analysis tools, what I want to
see is a emerging contaminant reconnaissance program that is built in place,
so that we can have early warning of chemical discharges that might pose risks
downstream. And so this may sound like a pie in the sky idea, but in fact,
this is exactly the sort of processes that have been implemented in Europe,
for example. On the Rhine River there's an example of a monitoring station
that does exactly this. It's an emerging contaminant reconnaissance station
with early warning, so that we can understand discharges when they're
happening, and try to intervene immediately to protect downstream water
supplies. This is all part of holistic water quality protection, and this
needs to happen not just here in North Carolina, but across the country and
around the world.

 **Volborth:** Thanks for listening. Follow Rate of Change for the latest
research from Duke Engineering. And if you learned something from this
podcast, please share it with others.

 **Music: "** Deadly Roulette" byKevin McLeod via incompetech.com. Licensed
under the Creative Commons 3.0: By Attribution license.

Subscribe to the _**Rate of Change**_ podcast in Apple Podcasts or Google
Play:

_The Apple logo is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other
countries. Google Podcasts and the Google Podcasts logo are trademarks of
Google LLC._

## Featured Faculty

### P. Lee Ferguson

Associate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

View profile »

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

