

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » Podcast

# What Makes a Happy Community?

April 12, 2023

Duke CEE faculty member **Andrew Jones** investigates how and where bacterial
communities thrive in the built environment—and imagines a future water smart
grid that’s accessible to everyone.

## Listen

Rate of Change · What Makes a Happy Community?

## Transcript

Miranda Volborth: Civil and Environmental Engineering faculty member Andrew
Jones is interested in a lot of different stuff. Bacteria and how they form
biofilms, developing new techniques to breach the barriers of these biofilms,
how these bacterial communities can impact human health, the future of the
grid and the environmental justice issues involved with that future. Meet
Andrew Jones on this episode of Rate of Change, a podcast from Duke
University, dedicated to the ingenious ways that engineers are solving
society's toughest problems. Hope you've had your coffee today so you can keep
up. We're going to start with Andrew telling us about growing up here in
Durham, while his dad was a grad student at Duke.  
  
Andrew Jones: Which hotel is that? The Hilton that we normally put faculty up
in off of Main Street, used to be a giant open field. And that's actually
where I learned how to ride a bike and fly a kite, because Duke lovingly has
all these trees right around the main quad, which means that as far as flying
kites go, it's kind of out. Riding a bike, actually I think I might have
ridden a bike there. Anyway, I also have a really good memory of climbing a
magnolia that still exists over in the Sarah P. Duke Gardens.  
  
Miranda: I know the exact one you're talking about. Yeah, magnolias are the
best climbing trees.  
  
Andrew Jones: They are. They have nice low branches and...  
  
Miranda: Yeah. And you said your family farmed here, right?  
  
Andrew Jones: My mom's entire family, they were from, I guess about an hour
north of here, Caswell County. My grandfather had a fairly large farm. My
aunts, all my great aunts who descended from him had small farms or large
farms, depending. My mother, even though she was born and raised mostly in
Cleveland, she would spend her summers down here picking tobacco. She claims
that she even got a small nicotine addiction and that's where it started.
She's since given up cigarettes, but that's where it kind of started, was
picking and handling tobacco. And if I want to tie that into the research that
I do now, one of my students was very curious about nicotine's relationship to
antibiotic resistance and relation to, because there are oils on tobacco
leaves. And so you have the oils coming off the tobacco leaf, you have the
pesticides and herbicides, all the pesticides we spray on tobacco leaves and
how that might influence the skin microbiome.

And that's one of the projects that we're looking at right now, is just
looking at how the skin microbiome just hangs around on our skin in an in
vitro situation. So instead of having to do a mouse model or a pig model, we
have 3D printed skin, and we're looking at three different bacteria that we
know exist on the skin and how they interact, how they will relate to each
other, and how this differs from when we look at these same bacteria on the
standard agar plate model, which is what everybody uses. They basically take
gelatin and they make an agar plate, and that's how they grow bacteria, and
that's not really representative of the way our skin works. Our skin is not as
wet as agar.  
  
Miranda: Hopefully.  
  
Andrew Jones: It's pretty dry. It is more porous than agar, right. That's how
we have pores on our skin. We have higher temperatures. We have more oil on
our skin than agar does. So just looking at how bacteria will differ between
that platform, the agar platform, and these 3D printed skin that we are able
to produce is going to hopefully open up some new doors for studying the more
advanced stuff, like how nicotine and other oils from tobacco leaves might
affect your skin microbiome. And then affect your health down the line. Or how
pesticides and herbicides might affect your skin microbiome, which will
eventually affect the rest of your health down the road.  
  
Miranda: I have so many questions about this. What are you 3D printing the
skin from?  
  
Andrew Jones: So, a combination of different gelatins and different cells. So,
we can actually use epithelial cells and epithelial tissue to print
structures. So that was kind of, it's a really recent innovation. We didn't do
it in our lab. Right now, the most interesting structure we have is, well, a
3D coupon of skin, so like a cube, basically. But it has more porosity than
agar, as I said. It has the ability to have cells growing inside of it. It's
multiple components, so we have different gels that we're actually embedding
these cells inside, so there's a little bit of different stress and strain,
because if you look at our tissue, our tissue is not one uniform homogenous
tissue.  
  
Miranda: Yeah, I'm just kind of trying to imagine what that process would look
like. A 3D printer squirting out kind of...  
  
Andrew Jones: It's squirting out a combination of cells and inks. It literally
is like a syringe, either your pastry syringe or the syringes that you get
vaccines out of. It exists. So, it applies pressure and squirts it out, but it
squirts it out at a nice slow enough rate and occasionally with a UV light so
that we can, I guess, solidify or cross-link the material so that it's more of
a solid than a liquid.  
  
Miranda: That is wild. I guess, I don't think about the microbiome on skin,
although I know that it is there. I think we usually think about the
microbiome being in your guts or inside of other really wet kind of things.
Are there other places around us that kind of host these microbiomes that
people might be surprised by?  
  
Andrew Jones: Everything has a microbiome. Yes. So, on a project with Claudia
Gunsch, Duke University just got the... What is it? An engineering research
center funded-  
  
Miranda: PreMiEr?  
  
Andrew Jones: Yeah.  
  
Miranda: Andrew is referring to the engineering research center for Precision
Microbiome Engineering, PreMiEr. This center is aiming to develop diagnostic
tools and different approaches that prevent the colonization of harmful
bacteria in the built environment and encourage beneficial microorganisms to
thrive. PreMiEr is led by Duke CEE Professor Claudia Gunsch, and it's
supported by a $26 million grant from the NSF. Andrew is one of many
researchers from multiple institutions collaborating on this new center.  
  
Andrew Jones: And that is entirely designed to study the building microbiome.
It's when we think about the spread of COVID on an indoor environment, part of
that thinking is, well, that is an indoor microbiome. That's a combination of
us walking into a room, exhaling whatever we have in our mouths and our lungs,
and spitting that out into a room that will stick to a surface. I mean, we
originally thought about COVID, I think in the early days, everybody was
wiping down their surfaces. Because the thought was maybe COVID was spread
through surface contact. Turns out it wasn't. If we really think back to how
human evolution worked or evolution worked, bacteria were first.

They've been here for millennia, and so they know how to colonize basically
any environment, dry, wet, hot, acidic, volcanic. They are everywhere.

The biggest challenge with the bacterial side of the microbiome is that we
can't culture most of those bacteria. We don't know what things make them
happy to grow them in large quantities that we can see them under a
microscope. However, they're there. The recent innovations have been that we
can use 16S RNA seq, which is a way of just amplifying a chunk of DNA and
being able to amplify it enough so that we can see at least what DNA was
there. And that's allowed us to start seeing certain things. But the biggest
challenge was really just growing those microbes in a controlled, repeatable
environment, the way that we like to do science. Well, that's harder. Because
if we're thinking, trying to grow the bacteria inside the sound booth, right?
Well, what makes them happy to grow it? Is it the styrofoam that makes them
happy? We don't know. And we have to just keep tossing things at it and trying
to figure out what works.

So that's kind of the big challenge, but also the big opportunity is that we
have new tools, new technologies like the 3D Bioprinter where we can start
saying, "Well, what's going to make this bacteria happy?" One of the cool
findings that we found so far with just the 3D Bioprinter, is that
Propionibacterium acnes, also known as Cutibacterium acnes, also known as the
bacteria that causes acne, that bacteria likes growing on our 3D printed skin
constructs a lot better than it grows on agar.

One of the other fascinating studies that happened that I was talking about
when the PreMiEr grant was going through review was, I think it was a 2019
study where somebody went around and sampled hospitals. Just clipboards, the
paper in the hospital, the different surfaces of a hospital, and then they
just took those samples, put them under a SEM, so scanning electron
micrograph, which allows you to get micron level images, and they're normally
in black and white, but they were able to find biofilms on those surfaces.

If we think about a biofilm, you're thinking about the plaque on your teeth,
you're thinking about the really colorful ponds in Yellowstone. Those are
biofilms. You're thinking about the slime on rocks, and yet they were finding
these on paper, on clipboards, on ink pens, and it was interesting to see that
same morphology. Something that looks basically like a biofilm, but on
something that is dry.  
  
Miranda: Is learning how those biofilms work to be able to better break them
down? Is that the...  
  
Andrew Jones: I wouldn't say break them down. I'd say live with them. That's,
I guess, another fascinating direction the research has started to take. I
think there was a really cool paper in 2017 that started talking about a way
to defeat this antimicrobial resistance crisis is to kind of scale back on
antimicrobials. So not taking antibiotic to kill off bacteria. We don't
necessarily need to kill them off, because once we kill them, then you start
doing the natural selection thing, which starts leading to things that are
resistant. So, if instead, you could figure out a way to decrease their
virulence, right?

So instead of worrying about how well, or instead of worrying about just their
existence in our body, because we have bacteria on our skin, we have bacteria
in our gut that we're totally fine with. Why is it a problem? It's a problem
because it starts shifting things over to a dysbiosis. It starts dominating
the other species. And so, if we could figure out a way of just saying you
know what, what if we were to add this other thing, this other element to it
to make it kind of go back to its normal contained happy state.  
  
Miranda: What kind of dysbiosis can happen in water treatment and delivery?  
  
Andrew Jones: That is an interesting question that might even be at the
forefront of Premier, the center we talk about earlier. Looking and trying to
figure out, ok, we know what dysbiosis looks like in a human—that's a decent
chunk of what my lab studies, dysbiosis in a human being. But dysbiosis in a
building or a water treatment plant, that’s kind of an open question that
we’re trying to probe a lot more, both in my lab and in the NSF PremiEr center
at large. How could we make sure to modify—or, COULD we even engineer that
community to be the community of bacteria that we want. The community that
will do no harm, or do the least harm. Right now, we don’t know even if we can
engineer that community, or how that community arises in the first place.
There’s a lot of study that needs to go on to figure out how that community
popped up there, and how it’s so stable.  
  
Right now, there’s not been a lot of waterborne illnesses that were aware of
that are publicized, so our water treatment system is working really well
right now. But could we do better? Could we do better through engineering
tools or engineering practices so that we can live with a little more low-cost
solutions to drinking water treatment, and also protect our most vulnerable
populations, because for the most part even though those bacteria are probably
benign for most people, there may be populations that are somewhat
immunocompromised, that may not be able to deal with that level of bacteria in
their drinking water, and right now they’re probably having to pay out of
pocket to get water that meets the standard to protect their health. Could we
potentially design a system that would help them as well?  
  
My vision for the future, both the future of my lab but also the future of
society, is one my lab is really positioned as a lab that develops tools for
this water smart grid concept that we are proposing—kind of latching on to.
And what that means for people on a day-to-day basis is just a lot more trust
in your water and a lot more knowledge about your water. Right now, water
quality, water information, is literally all buried. It’s all underground. You
get a water report once a year. You may not even know that you get a water
quality report, mandated by law, mandated by the Clean Water Act. You’re
supposed to get this report from your water utility that says what’s in your
water. Once a year. It’s really hard to care about what’s coming up from
underground that you don’t see every day. It’s hard to care about things you
don’t see. But with a water smart grid I hope that people are going to be able
to see water and see their water quality better, and be able to trust it. And
if they don’t trust it, to be able to act, with information, to improve their
water quality system just like we can do with roads.

Miranda: What would you expect living with a more accessible, more equitable
water system to look like, for a normal person?  
  
Andrew: For a consumer, you would turn on your tap and water would flow like
normal. You wouldn’t notice what’s going on underground—the same as right now.
Except you would have a display, and that display would tell you things that
might make you trust your water better. It might say, “You’re using this much
water. Your neighbors are using this much water. You have this much water left
in whatever reservoir you’re drawing from,” whether that’s a community basin
or city reservoir, or your county or town reservoir. So, you’d be drawing and
say, “Okay, I’m subtracting this much from these sources.” You might be able
to click a screen that shows more information: projected out, with our current
rainfall levels and snowfall levels, you’ll have enough to last, in this
storage tank, for the next year or two years. It might show an alarm that
says, “Hey, are you using this water or just letting it run?” It will tell you
things about the quality of your water. The pressure of your water. Being able
to see, yes, your water pressure is fine, there’s no leaks in the system. It
could also say, before you turn on the tap, “Hey, you’ve been using water
throughout the day...” An app on your phone, maybe, would say, “You’re using
water,” but there’s no faucet running in my house right now. I haven’t turned
on anything. And that can point you to a leak-- that can say, “You should
probably go fix this.”  
  
We have that technology right now, the leak detection. It’s the rest of it,
the... “Your water is free from arsenic, it’s free from lead, it’s free from
bacteria.” Or maybe there is bacteria in your water and you might want to do
something about that. You turn on your tap and you might get more information
than you can deal with. But hopefully the display, as we design and iterate,
would get to where we could display information that is relevant at the time
of use.  
  
Miranda: …See how much water the Joneses are using on their grass this time of
year...  
  
Andrew: Right! And see how that might impact the rest of the system.  
  
So, if we’re trying to push these technologies out, we have to consider policy
solutions and think about how policies worked in the past to improve overall
health. One lovely example is that the catalytic converter was originally put
out in the late 1970s, early 1980s. That was through government mandate and it
immediately improved air quality for everyone. Then car companies realized, we
can get more efficient engines, longer lasting... so they decided to do it
themselves later on. Market forces later improved the implementation of that
technology.  
  
So, I try to blend in a little bit of policy work with the engineering work
that I do, to make sure that when I develop these new technologies, they will
actually get out there and help people get access to these tools to improve
either their building’s health or their neighborhood’s health, or the broader
community’s health.  
  
So that's how the policy piece is still in my research. There's technology and
there's policy, and how do those two things meet and interact?  
  
Miranda: Keep your eyes on Andrew Jones and his lab here at Duke. There’s sure
to be many, many interesting things coming from it in the future.  
  
Thanks for listening. You can subscribe to this podcast, and if you learned
something, please share it with others.

Subscribe to the _**Rate of Change**_ podcast in Apple Podcasts or Google
Play:

_The Apple logo is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other
countries. Google Podcasts and the Google Podcasts logo are trademarks of
Google LLC._

## Featured Faculty

### Akhenaton-Andrew Dhafir Jones

Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

View profile »

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

