

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » Podcast

# The World's Coolest T-Shirt

August 30, 2019

Materials engineer Po-Chun Hsu is developing textiles that heat and cool at
the personal level—a scaled-back approach to climate control that could help
curb emissions in the U.S.

## Listen

## Transcript

M. Volborth: This is Rate of Change, a podcast from Duke Engineering dedicated
to the ingenious ways that engineers are solving society's toughest problems.
I'm Miranda Volborth.

M. Volborth: To tackle the really huge issues facing human civilization;
climate change, disease, poverty, you have to be able to venture outside the
established parameters, try different approaches, search out new paths. You
have to be a bit of a rebel.

M. Volborth: Po-Chun Hsu isn't who you probably imagined when you think
"rebel." He has short, hair-colored hair, nice shoes and no visible tattoos.
But Po-Chun, at the age of 18, did something so crazy and so different from
what was expected of him, that it made him kind of famous in his native
Taiwan.

Po-Chun Hsu: Yeah, of course as a high schooler you are curious about
everything. And what interested me the most ... that was sneakers. I remember
there was a pair which has like a very beautifully special iridescent color,
and I couldn't help but wondering what that was. What's the material inside?

M. Volborth: Do you still have those sneakers?

Po-Chun Hsu: No.

M. Volborth: It was that bewitching pair of holographic sneakers that set Po-
Chun on on his path to rebellion.

Po-Chun Hsu: In Taiwan we have the so-called "entrance exam," which is kind of
like SAT in the US. You take the test, get a score and apply for schools based
on the scores, your GPA and other stuff. In Taiwan it's a department who gives
the admission, not the university. So that means the high schooler really need
to decide the major before entering the college. But most people just use
their scores to apply to whatever school has the highest score threshold. So
for me, I knew I liked material science very much, so I just decided to go
straight to do that.

M. Volborth: Po-Chun will not say this outright, but he was the top student in
his graduating year nationally. And he chose to go into materials science even
though he would have been admitted to departments with higher thresholds, like
medicine or electrical engineering.

M. Volborth: Pursuing one's passions, Po-Chun told me, was not the norm in
Taiwan at that time. And people went crazy, telling him that he was wasting
his high score and that he was going to regret the decision that he was
making.

M. Volborth: Fast forward to 2019. Po-Chun is living the dream— his dream
anyway—as a new faculty member at Duke University in the Department of
Mechanical Engineering and Material Science. His research lab works on light
and heat management focusing on dynamic controls.

Po-Chun Hsu: Imagine— so you can see things through a thermal camera. That
means we are radiating a lot of heat, which can be captured by the infrared
camera. And what I'm doing is, instead of just letting that radiation come out
without any control, if we can block that radiation, then we can keep the heat
around you, make you feel warmer. And if you can maximize that radiation
freely transmitting to the ambient, meaning we can make you feel much, much
cooler.

M. Volborth: Here's why this topic is so important and why Po-Chun's research
holds so much potential to serve society. Right now in the US space heating
and cooling accounts for 14% of our total energy consumption. That's 648
million tons of CO2 produced every year just from heating and cooling. Our
dependence upon indoor climate control produces a very troubling feedback loop
in which these huge CO2 emissions contribute to global warming, which in turn
causes us to use more power to keep our environments cool, which leads to more
emissions and more climate change.

Po-Chun Hsu: So the reason that space heating and cooling consume so much
energy is because we are trying to heat up or cool down the entire building,
which is gigantic compared to our body area and volume inside. So personal
thermal management is really to locally regulate the thermal comfort around
the residents and ignore the empty space and all of the objects.

M. Volborth: What he's saying is, that if we could just create our own little
climate controlled bubbles, we'd save a ton of energy because we wouldn't be
heating or cooling empty space.

Po-Chun Hsu: If you do the math and calculate what's required energy to
provide the comfortable environment just around us, not the entire building,
you get the number about 10 times off. That means what we are consuming, which
is the 14%, we actually need just 1.4% use of that. So there's a huge room for
improvement. And my approach is to engineer the textile so they have special
properties that can either maximize or minimize the thermal radiation heat
loss.

M. Volborth: He approaches textile engineering at the nano scale, making
polyethylene into nano porous fibers that allow water and air to pass freely
through the textile or using metal nano wires to trap heat.

Po-Chun Hsu: The reason we made it into nano porous is to make it soft enough
and also breathable. So as long as we make into a fiber shade and we spin into
yarns, the textile that's woven out of that, it's really soft and as
comfortable as cotton.

Po-Chun Hsu: So again, mainly the wires are to provide an infrared or thermal
radiation shield, so that can reflect your infrared back. And the reason of
using nano wires, again, is to keep your textile breathable. Because now we
are having a network which has not enough pores for water and for moisture to
transport, but is small enough to reflect the radiation.

Po-Chun Hsu: And the principal is like— everyone has a microwave oven. And on
the door there's a mesh of metal with tiny holes, so you can see through the
tiny holes so you can see whether your food is cooked or not. The microwave
cannot escape from the oven. So imagine those meshes are now nano scale. What
we are doing is, we have those nano wire to block the infrared, and now the
smaller things like a water molecule or air molecule can freely pass through.
And wearing those textiles during wintertime or summertime means you can
reduce the usage of space heating or cooling but still feel the same,
similarly comfortable environment. And you are wearing very lightweight
clothing.

Po-Chun Hsu: So, exactly how much energy is saving will depend on the climate
zone you are in. But generally speaking, increasing the air conditioner
setpoint or decreasing the heater set point by one degree Celsius can save
about 10%. And our cooling textile can save about 30% of the energy and
heating can save about 50% of the energy.

M. Volborth: Has anybody tried to wear that textile?

Po-Chun Hsu: Yeah, we actually put those raw material and ask the outside
factory to make a real woven textile for us. From my personal point of view,
it's not distinguishable between our textile and traditional cotton textile.

M. Volborth: Really?

Po-Chun Hsu: It's soft, it's lightweight. I think the only difference is you
feel much cooler.

M. Volborth: So do you have your own T-shirts at home?

Po-Chun Hsu: It was probably $1,000 to make, so I don't keep one. It still
comes down to whether these processes can be compatible with the current
milling and fiber spinning factories. But we are quite confident that with a
given market search and given a volume... problem, this really can combine
with traditional textile industry and in a scalable way.

M. Volborth: After working on ultra heating and ultra cooling, he took it a
step further and started working on reversible textiles that can heat on one
side, and when you flip them over they can cool on the other side.

Po-Chun Hsu: Radiation is a surface property, just like colors. We know things
can have different colors, although they have the same bulkiness and same
porosity. So this reversible thermal textile is the first demonstration how
radiation heat management can achieve something that cannot be done by
traditional textile.

Po-Chun Hsu: And that leads us to the next stage of research, which is to
expand this to an ability and tuneable range to become even smarter than
similar textile and to take advantage of the dynamic environment for more
energy saving. Why it's simple is to combine some radiation control with
sunlight control. And when we place those textile to, for example, the rooftop
or tent material, it can absorb the sunlight and reduce thermal radiation loss
for heating during wintertime. And in the summertime you can do the opposite,
which is to reflect sunlight and promote some radiation loss for efficient
cooling. And this dynamic smart textile material can save energy from a
different approach by manipulating a different special property, which is
sunlight and thermal radiation.

M. Volborth: So that material in that application would need to be tuneable by
somebody controlling it, right?

Po-Chun Hsu: Right. Because we are living a constantly changing environment.
Winter, summer, and even daytime, fluctuation can be something like 20 degrees
Fahrenheit sometimes. So it's really important to have something that's smart
enough to maintain, to keep up with the change. And you can provide the
maximum comfort for human being or the maximum energy saving for the building.

M. Volborth: Can you tell me about the different ways that that material could
be tuneable?

Po-Chun Hsu: Yeah, so we are exploring a variety of different options. For
example, we can do it in a mechanical way by stretching or compressing. We can
have different optical properties and we also try to use electricity to
control or to induce such change.

M. Volborth: Where do you expect your research to be five years from now?

Po-Chun Hsu: Yeah, so of course we're going to push the performance higher and
higher, making them hotter or cooler, but I also anticipated to combine the
dynamically controlled thermal textile with a wearable sensor to provide
optimal thermal comfort to the users. Or we can sort of close this controlling
loop by feeding those physiological and environmental data to the textile and
then the textile itself to adjust the optimal thermal property to fit the
preference of the users.

M. Volborth: At this point in my conversation with Po-Chun I started
daydreaming about things like blankets that adjusted my body temperature
throughout the night. It just seems that there are so many possibilities that
haven't been explored.

Po-Chun Hsu: Yeah. Whenever I think about this textile research I have a very
strange feeling, because I know textile has been around with us for thousands
of years. And if you compare that with electronics, say smartphone laptops,
which is only decades, but we expecting more out of electronics than our
textiles. So for us it's really interesting to say, "Okay, what if we put our
effort which is in the electronic, but now we're putting it into textile? How
much can we achieve?" One example would be, let's say if your textile can be
linked to your calendar. Who knows where you are traveling next, what's the
weather there? And what's the temperature? So the textile can warm up or cool
down before you really arrive. Or it can sense your blood pressure or sense
your health condition, so when you wake up in the middle of night, it will
warm up so you won't catch cold.

Po-Chun Hsu: 20 years from now. I want to see our textile development is as
progressive as the electronics and other smart technology right now. One of
the most important thing is for cardiovascular diseases, which is I think
still a top one or two fatal diseases globally. And for those kinds of
diseases really important to prevent the happening compared to curing it. And
I think one of the approaches is to really provide a comfortable and the
stable thermal environment, so there's no sudden increase of blood pressure
and there is no sudden change in those in those the environment. And I think I
want to use this textile as a preventive medicine kind of like combining with
the health sensors so it can really prevent the occurrence of those a heart
attack and brain stroke and that kind of diseases.

M. Volborth: Remember how I said that Po-Chun is kind of famous in Taiwan?
Right after he started at Duke there was a massive spike in the number of
views to his faculty webpage. So many in fact that we initially thought our
web traffic data was wrong. Most of the traffic originated in Taiwan where
people are tracking Po-Chun's career, eager to see how the choices this
rebellious researcher made 15 years ago are now playing out. And there was a
lot of chatter online about how his career was shaping up.

Po-Chun Hsu: When you do something different you expect a lot of different
opinions. And some people of course were happy for me, finally seeing some
young person fulfilling his dream. I've heard some other people feel like even
though I'm doing research, I'm a professor right now, they still kind of judge
me based on the, for example, the salary and other stuff that I don't really
care about. So it's really about the values that people people have in their
mind. But I feel like if I can set a small example of what you can possibly
also achieve if you are as rebellious and as stubborn enough like me, then you
can one day do whatever you like. And don't take other critics too seriously,
because they're not the one who was going to live your life, you are.

M. Volborth: So what do you think is the future of Po-Chun's research? A few
years from now will you own a jacket whose properties you control with your
smartphone? Will our tuneable rooftops help keep our offices a stable 70
degrees? Will Po-Chun have made a dent in the world's energy consumption?

M. Volborth: Thanks for listening. Subscribe for updates from Duke
Engineering. And if you learned something from this podcast, please share it
with others.

Subscribe to the _**Rate of Change**_ podcast in Apple Podcasts or Google
Play:

_The Apple logo is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other
countries. Google Podcasts and the Google Podcasts logo are trademarks of
Google LLC._

## Featured Faculty

### Po-Chun Hsu

Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science

View profile »

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

