Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Graduate Courses

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Masters

* * *

Note to Students

In addition to the courses listed below, Duke BME master's and PhD students
may also take courses from other Duke engineering departments _and_ courses
from other schools within Duke.

* * *

## Approved Life Science Electives

  * CBB 520 Genome Tools and Technologies
  * MGM 732 Human Genetics
  * CELLBIO 730 Stem Cell Course
  * CMB 797 Modern Techniques in Molecular Biology
  * MGM 701 Foundations of Molecular Genetics and Microbiology
  * CELLBIO 761-763 Cellular Signaling Module I to III
  * BIOCHEM 536 Bioorganic Chemistry
  * BIOCHEM 622 Structure of Biological Macromolecules
  * BIOCHEM 681 Biophysical Methods
  * BME 790 Physiology for Engineers
  * BME 790 Quantitative Pathophysiology
  * EVANTH 530 Human Functional Anatomy
  * MEDPHY 505 Anatomy and Physiology for Medical Physicists
  * NEUROBIO 719 - Concepts in Neuroscience I (Ph.D only)
  * NEUROBIO 720 Concepts in Neuroscience II (Ph.D only)
  * NEUROBIO 759S Principles of Cognitive Neuroscience I
  * NEUROBIO 760S Principles of Cognitive Neuroscience II
  * IMM 544 Principles of Immunology
  * IMM 800 Comprehensive Immunology

## Approved Advanced Math Courses

  * BME 671 Signal Processing and Applied Mathematics
  * BME 790L Computational Linear Algebra in Biomedical Engineering
  * MATH 721 Linear Algebra and Applications
  * MATH 753 Ordinary and Partial Differential Equations
  * CEE 530/ME 524 Introduction to the Finite Element Method
  * CEE 630 Nonlinear Finite Element Analysis
  * COMPSCI 520/MATH 565 Numerical Analysis
  * MATH 561 Numerical Linear Algebra, Optimization, and Monte Carlo
    Simulation
  * MATH 563 Applied Computational Analysis
  * MATH 660 Numerical Partial Differential Equations
  * MATH 551 Applied Partial Differential Equations and Complex Variables
  * MATH 577 Mathematical Modeling
  * MATH 721 Linear Algebra and Applications
  * MATH 753 Ordinary and Partial Differential Equations
  * PHYSICS 760 Mathematical Methods in Physics
  * CBB 540 Statistical Methods for Computational Biology
  * MATH 545 Introduction to Stochastic Calculus
  * STA 601 Bayesian and Modern Statistical Data Analysis
  * STA 621/MATH 541 Applied Stochastic Processes
  * STA 611 Introduction to Mathematical Statistics

## Biomedical Engineering GRADUATE Course Descriptions

_Note: Only examples are listed below. Find a complete list of BME courses
inthe Graduate School Bulletin._

**503(253). Computational Neuroengineering** (GE, EL). This course introduces
students to the fundamentals of computational modeling of neurons and neuronal
circuits and the decoding of information from populations of spike trains.
Topics include: integrate and fire neurons, Spike Response Models, Homogeneous
and Inhomogeneous Poisson processes, neural circuits, Weiner (optimal),
Adaptive Filters, neural networks for classification, population vector coding
and decoding. Programming assignments and projects will be carried out using
MATLAB. Prerequisites: BME 101/201 or equivalent. Instructor: Henriquez. 3
units. C-L: Neuroscience 503(253).

**504(254). Fundamentals of Electrical Stimulation of the Nervous System**
(GE, EL). This course presents a quantitative approach to the fundamental
principles, mechanisms, and techniques of electrical stimulation required for
non-damaging and effective application of electrical stimulation. Consent of
instructor required. Instructor: Grill. 3 units.

**506(204). Measurement and Control of Cardiac Electrical Events** (GE, IM,
EL). Design of biomedical devices for cardiac application based on a review of
theoretical and experimental results from cardiac electrophysiology.
Evaluation of the underlying cardiac events using computer simulations.
Examination of electrodes, amplifiers, pacemakers, and related computer
apparatus. Construction of selected examples. Prerequisites: Biomedical
Engineering 253L(153L) or equivalents. Instructor: Wolf. 3 units.

**511(211). Theoretical Electrophysiology** (GE, EL). Advanced topics on the
electrophysiological behavior of nerve and striated muscle. Source-field
models for single-fiber and fiber bundles lying in a volume conductor. Forward
and inverse models for EMG and ENG. Bidomain model. Model and simulation for
stimulation of single-fiber and fiber bundle. Laboratory exercises based on
computer simulation, with emphasis on quantitative behavior and design.
Readings from original literature. Prerequisite: Biomedical Engineering
301L(201L) or equivalent. Instructor: Barr or Neu. 4 units. C-L: Neuroscience
511(241)

**512L(212L). Theoretical Electrocardiography** (GE, EL). Electrophysiological
behavior of cardiac muscle. Emphasis on quantitative study of cardiac tissue
with respect to propagation and the evaluation of sources. Effect of
junctions, inhomogeneities, anisotropy, and presence of unbounded
extracellular space. Bidomain models. Study of models of arrhythmia,
fibrillation, and defibrillation. Electrocardiographic models and forward
simulations. Laboratory exercises based on computer simulation, with emphasis
on quantitative behavior and design. Readings from original literature.
Prerequisite: Biomedical Engineering 301L(201L) or equivalent. Instructor:
Barr. 4 units.

**513(213). Nonlinear Dynamics in Electrophysiology** (GE, EL).
Electrophysiological behavior of excitable membranes and nerve fibers examined
with methods of nonlinear dynamics. Phase-plane analysis of excitable
membranes. Limit cycles and the oscillatory behavior of membranes. Phase
resetting by external stimuli. Critical point theory and its applications to
the induction of rotors in the heart. Theory of control of chaotic systems and
stabilizing irregular cardiac rhythms. Initiation of propagation of waves and
theory of traveling waves in a nerve fiber. Laboratory exercises based on
computer simulations, with emphasis on quantitative behavior and design.
Readings from original literature. Prerequisite: Mathematics 216(107) or
equivalent. Instructor: Neu. 4 units.

**515(256). Neural Prosthetic Systems**. This course will cover several
systems that use electrical stimulation or recording of the nervous system to
restore function following disease or injury. For each system the course will
cover the underlying biophysical basis for the treatment,the technology
underlying the treatment,and the associated clinical applications and
challenges. Systems to be covered include cochlear implants, spinal cord
stimulation of pain, vagus nerve stimulation for epilepsy, deep brain stim.
for movement disorders, sacral root stimulation for bladder dysfunction, and
neuromuscular electrical stim.for restoration of movement. Prerequisites:
Biomedical Engineering 253L(153L), and consent of instructor. Instructor:
Grill. 3 units.

**526(206L). Elasticity** (GE, BB). Linear elasticity will be emphasized
including concepts of stress and strain as second order tensors, equilibrium
at the boundary and within the body, and compatibility of strains. Generalized
solutions to two and three dimensional problems will be derived and applied to
classical problems including torsion of noncircular sections, bending of
curved beams, stress concentrations and contact problems. Applications of
elasticity solutions to contemporary problem in civil and biomedical
engineering will be discussed. Prerequisites: Engineering 201L(75L);
Mathematics 353(108). Instructor: Laursen. 3 units. C-L: Civil Engineering
521(206).

**527(217). Cell Mechanics and Mechanotransduction**. This course examines the
mechanical properties of cells and forces exerted by cells in biological
processes of clinical and technological importance and the processes by which
mechanical forces are converted into biochemical signals and activate gene
expression. Topics covered include measurement of mechanical properties of
cells, cytoskeleton mechanics, models of cell mechanical properties, cell
adhesion, effects of physical forces on cell function, and
mechanotransduction. Students will critically evaluate current literature and
analyze models of cell mechanics and mechanotransduction. Prerequisites:
Engineering 201L(75) and Biomedical Engineering 307(207) or equivalent,
knowledge of cell biology and instructor consent. Instructrors: Hoffman and
Truskey. 3 units.

**528(275). Introduction to Biofluid Mechanics**. Methods and applications of
fluid mechanics in biological and biomedical systems including: Governing
equations and methods of solutions,(e.g. conservation of mass flow and
momentum), the nature of biological fluids, (e.g.non-Newtonian rheological
behavior),basic problems with broad relevance, (e.g. flow in pipes,
lubrication theory), applications to cells and organs in different
physiological systems, (e.g. cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, respiratory,
reproductive and musculoskeletal systems), applications to diagnosis and
therapy, (e.g., drug delivery and devices). Prerequisite: Biomedical
Engineering 307(207). Instructor: Katz. 3 units.

**529(208). Theoretical and Applied Polymer Science** (GE, BB). 3 units. C-L:
see Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science 514(211)

**530(230). Tissue Biomechanics** (GE, BB). Introduction to the mechanical
behaviors of biological solids and fluids with application to tissues, cells
and molecules of the musculoskeletal and cardiovascular systems. Topics to be
covered include static force analysis and optimization theory, biomechanics of
linearly elastic solids and fluids, anisotropic behaviors of bone and fibrous
tissues, blood vessel mechanics, cell mechanics and behaviors of single
molecules. Emphasis will be placed on modeling stress-strain relations in
these tissues, and experimental devices used to measure stress and strain.
Student seminars on topics in applied biomechanics will be included.
Prerequisites: Engineering 201L(75L); Mathematics 353(108). Instructor: Myers.
3 units.

**542(222). Principles of Ultrasound Imaging** (GE, IM). Propagation,
reflection, refraction, and diffraction of acoustic waves in biologic media.
Topics include geometric optics, physical optics, attenuation, and image
quality parameters such as signal-to-noise ratio, dynamic range, and
resolution. Emphasis is placed on the design and analysis of medical
ultrasound imaging systems. Prerequisites: Mathematics 216(107) and Physics
152L(62L). Instructor: von Ramm. 3 units.

**561L(258L). Genome Science & Technology Lab** (GE, MC). Hands-on experience
on using and developing advanced technology platforms for genomics and
proteomics research. Experiments may include nucleic acid amplification and
quantification, lab-on-chip, bimolecular separation and detection, DNA
sequencing, SNP genotyping, microarrays, and synthetic biology techniques.
Laboratory exercises and designing projects are combined with lectures and
literature reviews. Prior knowledge in molecular biology and biochemistry is
required. Instructor consent required. Instructor: Tian. Variable credit. C-L:
Computational Biology and Bioinformatics 542(222)

**562\. Biology by Design** (GE, MC). Engineering biological systems
emphasizing synthetic biology and the application of biological/chemical
principles to the design of new biomolecules and cellular pathways. Review of
primary scientific literature, highlighting contemporary research in this
area, including artificial amino and nucleic acids, gene regulatory systems,
directed molecular evolution, recombinant antibodies, novel biosynthesis
pathways, cell communication, and the design of minimal organisms. Topics are
presented with applications such as drug design, discovery, productions,
regenerative medicine, and bioremediation. Prerequisite: Biomedical
Engineering 244L. Organic chemistry or biochemistry suggested. Instructor
consent required. Instructor: Gersbach. 3 units.

**563\. Transport Processes in HIV Transmission and Prevention** (GE, BB, MC)
**.** Application of transport theory to analyze processes of HIV migration to
target cells in the mucosa of the lower female reproductive tract. Analysis of
the introduction, transport and bioactivity of molecules that inhibit these
HIV-infection processes, including those acting topically (microbicides) and
those introduced in a variety of drug delivery vehicles: semi-solid materials
(gels, films) and solid materials (intravaginal rings). A succession of
mathematical models will describe elements of the fundamental biology of this
system and analyze the performance of specific products that act
prophylactically against HIV infection. Prerequisite: BME 307 or instructor
consent. Instructor: Katz. 3 units.

**565L(240L). Environmental Molecular Biotechnology** (GE, MC). 3 units. C-L:
see Civil Engineering 661L(239L)

**567(237). Biosensors** (GE, IM, MC). Biosensors are defined as the use of
biospecific recognition mechanisms in the detection of analyte concentration.
The basic principles of protein binding with specific reference to enzyme-
substrate, lectin-sugar, antibody-antigen, and receptor-transmitting binding.
Simple surface diffusion and absorption physics at surfaces with particular
attention paid to surface binding phenomena. Optical, electrochemical,
gravimetric, and thermal transduction mechanisms which form the basis of the
sensor design. Prerequisites: Biomedical Engineering 260L(100L) or equivalent
and consent of instructor. Instructor: Reichert or Vo-Dinh. 3 units.

**570L(220L). Introduction to Biomolecular Engineering** (GE, BB, MC).
Structure of biological macromolecules, recombinant DNA techniques, principles
of and techniques to study protein structure-function. Discussion of
biomolecular design and engineering from the research literature. Linked
laboratory assignments to alter protein structure at the genetic level.
Expression, purification, and ligand-binding studies of protein function.
Consent of instructor required. Instructor: Chilkoti. 3 units.

**574(221). Modeling and Engineering Gene Circuits**. This course discusses
modeling and engineering gene circuits, such as prokaryotic gene expression,
cell signaling dynamics, cell-cell communication, pattern formation,
stochastic dynamics in cellular networks and its control by feedback or
feedforward regulation, and cellular information processing. The theme is the
application of modeling to explore "design principles" of cellular networks,
and strategies to engineer such networks. Students need to define an
appropriate modeling project. At the end of the course, they're required to
write up their results and interpretation in a research-paper style report and
give an oral presentation. Prerequisites: Biomedical Engineering 260L(100L) or
consent of instructor. Instructor: You. 3 units.

**577(247). Drug Delivery** (GE, BB, MC). Introduction to drug delivery in
solid tumors and normal organs (for example, reproductive organs, kidney,
skin, eyes). Emphasis on quantitative analysis of drug transport. Specific
topics include: physiologically-based pharmacokinetic analysis,
microcirculation, network analysis of oxygen transport, transvascular
transport, interstitial transport, transport across cell membrane, specific
issues in the delivery of cells and genes, drug delivery systems, and targeted
drug delivery. Prerequisite: Biomedical Engineering 307(207) and Engineering
110L(53). Instructor: Yuan. 3 units.

**578(248). Tissue Engineering** (GE, MC). This course will serve as an
overview of selected topics and problems in the emerging field of tissue
engineering. General topics include cell sourcing and maintenance of
differentiated state, culture scaffolds, cell-biomaterials interactions,
bioreactor design, and surgical implantation considerations. Specific tissue
types to be reviewed include cartilage, skin equivalents, blood vessels,
myocardium and heart valves, and bioartificial livers. Prerequisites:
Mathematics 353(108) or consent of instructor. Instructor: Bursac. 3 units.

**717S(351). Seminars in Medical Physics**. Medical physics is the application
of the concepts and methods of physics and engineering to the diagnosis and
treatment of human disease. This course consists of weekly lectures covering
broad topics in medical physics including diagnostic imaging, radiation
oncology, radiation safety, and nuclear medicine. Lectures will be given by
invited speakers drawn from many university and medical center departments
including Biomedical Engineering, radiology, physics, radiation safety, and
radiation oncology. Prerequisites: background in engineering or physics. 1 CC
(0.5 ES/0.5 ED). Consent of instructor required. Instructor: Lo and Samei. 1
unit.

**785(350). Principles of Research Management.** A survey of topics in modern
research management techniques that will cover proven successful principles
and their application in the areas of research lab organization, resource
management, organization of technical projects, team leadership, financial
accountability, and professional ethics. Instructor: Staff. 1 unit.

**788(362). Invention to Application: Healthcare Research Commercialization**.
Interdisciplinary teams of students from engineering, medical science,
business, and medicine work together to understand and evaluate the commercial
potential of Duke faculty research innovations and develop a comprehensive
research translation and business plan for one chosen opportunity. Learning
includes understanding technology, product development, marketing, finance,
regulatory requirements, and reimbursement. In addition to weekly lectures,
students are mentored in this real world experience by a team including
technology transfer experts, venture capitalists, researchers, physicians, and
entrepreneurs. Prerequisites: none. Consent of instructor required.
Instructor: Myers. 3 units.

**790(16525).** **Advanced Design & Manufacturing. **This course is designed
to bring the practical application of academic engineering to medical design,
while developing design skills that can be immediately transferred to industry
projects—making students attractive prospects to industry recruiters. The
skills course establishes a mindset and set of practical skills that form a
foundation for the Design Health sequences. Students also start to build a
portfolio design projects that showcase their design thinking. Through a
series of modules, the skills course introduces Design for Manufacture and
important concepts around production cost and the interplay between design
choices, manufacturing processes and cost. Medical image reconstruction and
the design of an implanted device takes students inside the body, designing
for specific anatomy and bio-compatibility. The Duke skills course is
supported by industry leader Protolabs, and the program is hugely grateful for
their input and assistance in readying students for careers in design and
development. Instructors: Fearis & Richardson. 3 Units.

**834(331). Viscoelasticity**. Viscoelasticity of hard and soft tissue solids
and composite structures. Linear and nonlinear one-dimensional viscoelastic
behavior, internal damping, and three-dimensional viscoelasticity.
Approximation techniques for determination of viscoelastic constitutive
equations from experimental data. Mathematical formulations for the
characterization of the dynamic behavior of biologic structures. Consent of
instructor required. Instructor: Myers. 3 units.

**844(321). Advanced Ultrasonic Imaging.** This course provides students with
a mathematical basis of ultrasonic imaging methods. Topics include K-space,
descriptions of ultrasonic imaging, ultrasonic beam-former design, tissue
motion and blood flow imaging methods, and novel ultrasonic imaging methods.
Students conduct extensive simulations of ultrasonic imaging methods.
Prerequisite: BME 303(233). Instructor: Trahey. 3 units.

**848L(334L). Radiology in Practice**. Designed to complement BME 233 Modern
Diagnostic Imaging Systems. Review and real-life exercises on principles of
modern medical imaging systems with emphasis on the engineering aspects of
image acquisition, reconstruction and visualization, observations of imaging
procedures in near clinical settings, and hands-on experience with the
instruments. Modalities covered include ultrasound, CT, MRI, nuclear medicine
and optical imaging. Prerequisite: BME 303(233) or equivalent. Instructor:
Trahey. 3 units. C-L: Medical Physics 738(338)

**850(335). Advances in Photonics: An Overview of State-of-the-Art Techniques
and Applications**. The main goal of this course is to provide an overview of
various photonics techniques and their applications. The purpose is to enhance
the students' breath of understanding and knowledge of advanced techniques and
introduce them to the wide variety of applications in photonics, the science
and technology associated with interactions of light with matter. Examples of
topics include: High-resolution Luminescence Techniques, Raman Techniques,
Optical Coherence Techniques, Ultrafast Laser-base Techniques, Near-Filed and
Confocal Optical Techniques, Remote Sensing Techniques, Advanced Light
Measurement Techniques, Optical Biosensors, Nano Micro Electrooptics Systems,
High throughput Assays using Optical Detection, Photonics Meta Materials and
Applications, Optics in Telecommunications, and Nanophotonics. The lectures
will be presented by faculty members who are leaders in their areas of
research in photonics. Instructor: Vo-Dinh. 3 units. C-L: Chemistry 630(335).

## Courses Quick Links

  * DukeHub
  * Registrar's Schedule of Courses
  * Academic Calendar
  * Graduate Bulletin
  * Inter-Institutional Registration
  * Course Withdrawal Form
  * Registrar's Office
  * Sakai

____

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Master's Contacts

### Sina Farsiu

Director, Master's Studies

__pratt_masters@duke.edu

### Paul J. Fearis

Associate Director, Master's Studies

__paul.fearis@duke.edu

### Bev Gedvillas

Master's Program Coordinator

__919-660-5132

__beverly.gedvillas@duke.edu

### Admissions

Have a question about the program or admissions? Contact the **Admissions &
Recruiting team** at pratt_masters@duke.edu.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

