

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Nine Engineering Faculty Awarded 2018 Intellectual Community Planning Grants

December 6, 2017

Awards are part of Provost Sally Kornbluth's Together Duke strategic plan to
invest in Duke's faculty as scholars and leaders of the university's
intellectual communities

_Originally posted on Duke Today_

To invest in Duke’s faculty as scholars and leaders of the university’s
intellectual communities, Provost Sally Kornbluth has offered three grant
opportunities this year as part of the _Together Duke_ strategic plan.

The Offices of the Vice Provost for Interdisciplinary Studies and the Vice
Provost for Academic Affairs oversee these seed grant programs: Intellectual
Community Planning Grants; Provost Pilot Research Grants; and Research
Collaboratories. The latter two programs are accepting proposals through
December 15.

Recipients of the 2018 Intellectual Community Planning Grants will begin or
test a new collaboration around a shared interest. Project funds ranging from
$1,000 to $5,000 were awarded to the following eight groups:

## The Calla Project: An Art-based Initiative to Change the Narrative of Shame
and Invisibility Associated with Cervical Cancer

  * Lead: Nimmi Ramanujam (Director, Global Women’s Health Technologies),
    Biomedical Engineering, Pharmacology & Cancer Biology, Duke Global Health
    Institute, Science & Society

  * Deborah Jenson, Romance Studies, Franklin Humanities Institute, Duke
    Global Health Institute, Duke Institute for Brain Sciences

  * Megan Huchko, Obstetrics & Gynecology, Duke Global Health Institute

  * Wesley Hogan, Center for Documentary Studies, Franklin Humanities
    Institute, History

Invasive cervical cancer is the second most common female cancer in developing
countries and the seventh in developed countries. Current screening relies on
the bivalve speculum, which many women resist because of anxiety, fear,
discomfort, pain, embarrassment, and/or vulnerability during the procedure. To
address this limitation, Duke’s Center for Global Women’s Health Technologies
developed the Calla, an alternative to the standard speculum. The Calla has
been used with ease by numerous female volunteers for self-cervix imaging and
is currently in clinical studies. This faculty group believes that the Calla
can also be instrumental in creating an artistic platform for the cervix. An
art-based initiative will begin the process to change the narrative of shame
and invisibility, address the need to educate women on their reproductive
anatomy, and empower them to make informed decisions concerning their
reproductive health. The group will bring together woman-centric technology
for visualization of her reproductive anatomy, live imagery, and storytelling
created by women for women.

## DEVNet (Duke Extracellular Vesicle Network)

  * Lead: Christine Hendren, Center for the Environmental Implications of
    Nanotechnology
  * Co-lead: Claudia Gunsch, Civil & Environmental Engineering, Environmental
    Science & Policy, Energy Initiative
  * James Andrew Alspaugh, Medicine, Molecular Genetics & Microbiology
  * Rytas Vilgalys, Biology, Molecular Genetics & Microbiology
  * Meta Kuehn, Biochemistry, Molecular Genetics & Microbiology
  * Mark R. Wiesner, Civil & Environmental Engineering, Environmental Science
    & Policy, Earth & Ocean Sciences, Energy Initiative, Duke Initiative for
    Science & Society

This new working group is focused on understanding and harnessing the nature
and role of extracellular vesicles (EVs) in controlling intercellular
communication and effects. Interest and investigation of EVs is burgeoning
across a broad array of fields, but there remain critical disconnects and ripe
untapped synergies. The broad interdisciplinary nature of these potential
collaborations holds promise, but it has been difficult to identify funding
mechanisms that span such a breadth of disciplines. The group will identify
research questions, share established and developing methods, communicate with
a broad array of funding organizations to understand opportunities, and
develop proposed research programs. The investment in this diverse community
will result in an established interdisciplinary network of EV-related
expertise across Duke’s campus and beyond, the creation of data-sharing
formats to support integrated data gathering and analysis, and the development
of multiple proposals for target funding opportunities.

## Duke Cancer Institute Prostate Multi-parametric MRI and Targeted Biopsy
Working Group

  * Lead: Thomas J. Polascik, Surgery
  * Rajan T. Gupta, Radiology, Surgery
  * Jiaoti Huang, Pathology, Pharmacology & Cancer Biology
  * Kathy Nightingale, Biomedical Engineering
  * Mark L. Palmeri, Biomedical Engineering, Anesthesiology

Prostate multi-parametric MRI was initially used for staging and localization
of prostate cancer. In recent years, physicians have adapted the technique for
advanced diagnostics, tumor characterization, and guidance for both targeted
biopsy and localized interventions. Although prostate mpMRI has been shown to
perform well in different clinical scenarios, it has yet to be standardized
clinically due to the need for additional scientific evidence on such matters
the characteristics and characterization of lesions that are not detected by
mpMRI, racial differences in mpMRI outcomes, and optimal time to use mpMRI for
the diagnosis of prostate cancer. Faculty members will meet monthly to design
research projects and identify internal and external funding opportunitiesf.
Meetings will be open to all interested researchers from participating
departments. Guest speakers within Duke will present findings from their
research and recent literature reviews. This undertaking is expected to expand
current funded mpMRI interdisciplinary projects, and provide the foundation to
pursue high-profile funding opportunities.

## Duke Project on Risk and Resilience

  * Lead: Mark Borsuk, Civil & Environmental Engineering
  * Jonathan Wiener, Law, Public Policy
  * Christine Hendren, Center for the Environmental Implications of
    Nanotechnology
  * Tyler Felgenhauer, Civil & Environmental Engineering
  * Nita Farahany, Law, Philosophy, Duke Initiative for Science & Society

  * Michael “Buz” Waitzkin, Duke Initiative for Science & Society

  * Lori Bennear, Environmental Economics & Policy, Economics, Public Policy,
    Energy Initiative, Duke Initiative for Science & Society

Society is confronted by numerous risks, including natural disasters, climate
change, cyberattacks, financial shocks, terrorism, and public health threats.
Humanity’s ability to thrive in the 21st century will depend on our capacity
for anticipating, mitigating, and adapting to these risks. As a result, we
need to explore new technologies, practices, and policies that prevent risks
and improve resilience by being able to successfully perform in unexpected
situations, quickly recover from setbacks, and effectively adapt to change.
This faculty group will enhance synergies among researchers, educators, and
practitioners with diverse perspectives on risk and resilience, while raising
awareness of Duke’s already significant risk‐related teaching and scholarship.
The group will initiate a university‐wide research, teaching, and engagement
program focused on the detection, analysis, regulation, and mitigation of
risk. In the longer term, faculty envision a coordinated extramurally‐funded
center that is inclusive and supportive of other risk‐relevant research and
education efforts across campus.

## Environmental and Economic Justice in Rural America

  * Lead: Erika Weinthal, Environmental Policy, Public Policy, Energy
    Initiative, Science & Society
  * Co-lead: Betsy Albright, Environmental Sciences & Policy
  * Kay Jowers, Nicholas Institute for Environmental Policy Solutions
  * David Schaad, Civil & Environmental Engineering, Duke Global Health
    Institute, Energy Initiative, Science & Society

  * Megan Mullin, Environmental Politics, Political Science
  * Liz Shapiro-Garza, Environmental Policy & Management, Science & Society

  * Norman Wirzba, Theology, Ecology, Agrarian Studies, Environmental Sciences
    & Policy

  * Wesley Hogan, Center for Documentary Studies, Franklin Humanities
    Institute, History
  * Chris Timmins, Economics

This group will explore the creation of a program on environmental and
economic justice in rural America that would formalize the ongoing
collaboration between the Duke Human Rights Center at FHI, the Nicholas School
of the Environment, and the Alabama Center for Rural Enterprise (ACRE). Since
2014, faculty and students at Duke have been collaborating with Catherine
Flowers from ACRE to address the inadequacy of wastewater treatment
infrastructure in Lowndes County, Alabama. The situation exemplifies the
social and environmental inequalities facing rural communities of color in the
American South, which include endemic poverty, lack of economic opportunity,
hazardous health conditions, and inadequate infrastructure. Deepening Duke’s
relationship with ACRE and expanding research and engagement efforts to other
rural communities in the U.S. will allow faculty and students to tackle a wide
array of problems associated with supporting sustainable rural livelihoods.
The grant will allow faculty members to explore how to create a larger
umbrella project on environmental and economic justice in rural America, learn
from other centers about their activities and funding models, and sustain
Duke’s collaborative work with ACRE.

_Read about the_ _2017 recipients_ _of Intellectual Community Planning Grants,
and learn more about the_ _Provost Pilot Research Grants in the Humanities and
Social Sciences_ and the _Research Collaboratories in Population Health; Race,
Religion, & Citizenship; and Energy & Water_ _(proposals are due December
15)._

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

