

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Nightingale, Wilson Elected Fellows of the National Academy of Inventors

December 3, 2019

Duke engineers honored for pioneering Acoustic Radiation Force Impulse (ARFI)
imaging to detect liver fibrosis and cancer and sound-processing strategies
used in modern cochlear implants

The National Academy of Inventors (NAI) announced today that Kathryn
Nightingale, the Theo Pilkington Professor of Biomedical Engineering, and
Blake Wilson, E'74 and PhD'15, director of the Duke Hearing Center, and
adjunct or consulting professor in three departments at Duke (Surgery,
Biomedical Engineering, and Electrical and Computer Engineering), have been
elected to its 2019 class of fellows.

Founded in 2010, the NAI recognizes academic inventors for their spirit of
innovation in creating or facilitating outstanding inventions that have made a
tangible impact on the quality of life, economic development and welfare of
society. The announcement brings the number of NAI Fellows in the Pratt School
of Engineering to nine. Professors Nimmi Ramanujam, Joseph Izatt and Tuan Vo-
Dinh were elected in 2017; David R. Smith and Jennifer West in 2016, and
Robert Calderbank and Ashutosh Chilkoti in 2014.

“The combination of scholarship and impact is one of the paramount features
that makes Duke Engineering so special, and these two faculty members are
perfect examples of how their combination can answer today’s toughest
challenges,” said Ravi Bellamkonda, Vinik Dean of the Pratt School of
Engineering. “The NAI honor is particularly special because it recognizes
those who use these attributes to have a particular impact on society, in this
case by detecting deadly diseases and helping people restore their hearing.
Kathy Nightingale and Blake Wilson are exemplary scholars who have made
exceptional contributions.”

Nightingale and her colleagues in the Duke Ultrasound group and the Duke
Medical Center pioneered the development of Acoustic Radiation Force Impulse
(ARFI) elasticity imaging. She demonstrated the initial clinical feasibility
of these methods, and developed algorithms optimized for robust, precise
tissue elasticity quantification. The algorithms and pulse sequences developed
in her laboratory form the basis of shearwave imaging techniques implemented
in several commercially available diagnostic ultrasound systems.

> “The combination of scholarship and impact is one of the paramount features
> that makes Duke Engineering so special, and these two faculty members are
> perfect examples of how their combination can answer today’s toughest
> challenges. The NAI honor is particularly special because it recognizes
> those who use these attributes to have a particular impact on society, in
> this case by detecting deadly diseases and helping people restore their
> hearing. Kathy Nightingale and Blake Wilson are exemplary scholars who have
> made exceptional contributions.” - Ravi Bellamkonda, Vinik Dean of the Pratt
> School of Engineering

The most successful clinical application of ARFI shearwave imaging to date has
been in the context of hepatic fibrosis staging, which has been one of the
primary foci of Nightingale’s research. In some countries, shearwave imaging
technologies have largely replaced liver biopsy for liver fibrosis staging.
Her research continues to focus on using the technology—in combination with
conventional ultrasound imaging—to explore its potential for providing imaging
guidance for minimally invasive prostate cancer biopsy and focal therapies and
to provide quantitative elasticity measurements enabling longitudinal
monitoring of disease progression and response to treatment in a range of
clinical applications.

“I am honored to be inducted as a Fellow in the NAI. My laboratory focuses on
the development of translational technologies with a goal of impacting patient
care,” said Nightingale. “Together with Drs. Gregg Trahey and Mark Palmeri, my
students and laboratory team, and my clinical and industrial collaborators, I
am proud to have pioneered technology that is directly impacting patients
throughout the world."

Wilson invented many of the sound-processing strategies used in modern
cochlear implants. According to the National Institutes of Health, about 36
million adults in America alone report some degree of hearing loss, ranging
from difficulty hearing some high-pitched sounds to total deafness. The
development of the cochlear implant provided a completely new way to treat
hearing loss by translating sounds into electrical signals the brain can
interpret and sending those signals directly to the auditory nerve—bypassing
damaged or absent sensory hair cells in the inner ear.

Wilson began his work full-time on cochlear implants in the 1980s when he
developed the “continuous interleaved sampling” system. The breakthrough made
it possible for cochlear implant recipients to understand words and sentences
with far greater clarity than before, and resulted in a rapid expansion in the
number of deaf and nearly deaf persons who have received a cochlear implant in
one or both ears. To date, hundreds of thousands of adults and children
worldwide have received cochlear implants, and the great majority can talk on
phones and follow conversations in relatively quiet environments.

“I am deeply honored by the membership in the National Academy of Inventors
and of course grateful for the spectacular education I received at Duke, which
enabled me to do something special later in life,” said Wilson. “The cochlear
implant would not have been possible without the contributions made by
hundreds of talented and dedicated engineers, physicians, and scientists; I
feel supremely fortunate to be among them.”

The new Fellows will be inducted on April 10, 2020 in Phoenix, Arizona. Laura
A. Peter, Deputy Undersecretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property and
Deputy Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office, will deliver
the keynote address for the ceremony.

## Related News

February 09, 2017

### Cochlear Implant Developer Blake Wilson Elected to the National Academy of
Engineering

March 06, 2015

### Boyd, Bursac and Nightingale to Be Inducted into Medical and Biological
Engineering Elite

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

