

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Becker, Rubinstein Awarded Distinguished Professorships

April 16, 2020

Duke Engineers join class of 29 Distinguished Professorships announced by Duke
this year

_Official Duke Announcement_

Duke University has awarded distinguished professorships to 28 faculty members
from eight Duke colleges and schools, including two faculty members from the
Pratt School of Engineering.

Matthew Becker, who holds appointments in mechanical engineering and materials
science and chemistry, has been named the Hugo L. Blomquist Distinguished
Professor of Chemistry, effective September 1, 2020. Becker is an expert in
organic polymer chemistry, whose research is focused on developing bioactive
polymers for regenerative medicine and drug delivery.

Michael Rubinstein, who holds appointments in mechanical engineering and
materials science, biomedical engineering, chemistry, and physics, has been
named the Aleksander S. Vesic Distinguished Professor of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science, effective July 1, 2020. Rubinstein's
research focuses on creating polymeric models to bridge scientific disciplines
and advance soft-matter research.

While the annual University Distinguished Professors dinner will be postponed
until social gathering restrictions are lifted, Provost Sally Kornbluth is
ready to congratulate this year’s recipients now.

“I am thrilled to honor this wonderful cohort of scholars, teachers, and
members of the Duke community,” Kornbluth said. “Becoming a distinguished
professor at Duke is a great achievement, and one that is richly deserved by
these outstanding colleagues. I look forward to being able to congratulate
them in person!”

See the full list of new Distinguished Professorships on Duke Today.

## Related News

September 05, 2019

### Matthew Becker: Designing Functionalized, Degradable Biomaterials for
Healing

September 21, 2017

### Michael Rubinstein: A Collaborative Approach to Soft-Matter Engineering
and Science

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

