

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Technology Launches PFAS-Destroying Waste Treatment Company to Nasdaq

July 1, 2022 | Ken Kingery

Based on supercritical water oxidation waste treatment technology invented on
Duke’s campus, 374Water rings Nasdaq’s bell

As he watched his business partner ring the opening bell of the Nasdaq Stock
Market, Marc Deshusses couldn’t help but smile. Seeing nearly a decades’ worth
of work materialize into a company traded on one of the world’s foremost
public exchanges would be a special moment for anyone. But even more than its
personal significance, Deshusses hoped the ringing was a signal of the dawning
of a new age in treatment technology.

374Water is a startup company launched in 2018 by Deshusses, professor of
civil and environmental engineering at Duke University, and Kobe Nagar,
374Water’s CEO who rang the opening Nasdaq bell. Based on technology
originally funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation in 2013, the
company is engineering and building modular sanitation systems capable of
cleaning even the foulest concentrated waste.

While the company has been public for about a year, its stock has been
available through “over the counter” broker-dealer networks. Its inclusion
into the Nasdaq exchange is the result of the company meeting a number of
financial and organizational requirements that will allow the company to
attract more investors and capital for its pursuits. The company now employs
more than 20 people working across the globe in places like France, the
Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Israel.

“The uplisting to NASDAQ is an important milestone, as it opens up investment
opportunities to a larger crowd, and I am excited to see this happening,”
Deshusses said. “I am also excited that our commercial systems that will treat
problematic wastes such as biosolids, contaminated sludges and PFAS. Seeing
inventions materialize into commercial products is a dream come true.”

The technology underpinning 374Water’s systems features a process called
supercritical water oxidation, or what Deshusses affectionately refers to as a
“pressure cooker on steroids.” The description is apt, as the systems use high
pressure and temperature—over 220 times atmospheric pressure and above 374
degrees Celsius, hence the company’s name–to break down complex organic
compounds into clean water, CO2 and energy.

For several years, Deshusses and his team designed and constructed a prototype
within a standard 20-foot shipping container behind Hudson Hall on Duke’s
campus. Over time, they dialed in the reaction parameters and infrastructure
design needed to create a stable, reliable reaction that worked efficiently
enough for commercial applications. After officially launching 374Water to
pursue these commercial applications, the team struck a deal with the Indiana-
based nationwide biosolids management company Merrell Brothers to manufacture
their inaugural systems.

The first units produced, which fit within 40-foot shipping containers and can
handle about six tons of waste a day, were sold to treatment sites in Orange
County, California and Israel. With systems soon out in the real world
treating waste and recovering resources on an everyday basis, the company will
scale up their production as well as their designs to treat 30 or, eventually,
even 200 tons of waste per day.

While these capacities aren’t in the realm of what city-sized treatment
facilities require—New York City alone produces about 1200 tons of biosolids
every day—they could be extremely useful in scenarios where concentrated waste
is produced such as farms and industrial factories, as Deshusses and his team
have also demonstrated that their technology can destroy virtually any organic
contaminant. For example, the Environmental Protection Agency recently dropped
their health advisory levels of so-called “forever chemicals” PFOA and PFOS to
extremely low levels. As the nickname implies, these concerning compounds are
very difficult to destroy. But supercritical water oxidation is one of the few
technologies capable of invalidating the term.

“More and more landfills in the US are accepting less and less organic waste,
and there is a growing concern about residual compounds like PFAS remaining
after traditional treatments,” Deshusses said. “These concerns and others have
created interest in treatment facilities that can completely eliminate all
contaminants on-site. We’re excited to show just what our technology is
capable of doing.”

## Related News

November 05, 2018

### Reinventing the Toilet: Seeking a ‘Safe and Dignified Solution’ to the
Sanitation Crisis

October 26, 2018

### Duke Startup Converts Fecal Sludge To Clean Reusable Water

July 09, 2013

### Pressure Cooker on Steroids Treats Human Waste

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

