

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# 6 Students Join Duke alumnus Lawrence Lenihan'87

May 24, 2016

Changing the Business of Fashion

_Originally published by Duke Innovation & Entrepreneurship_

This summer six students from Duke are joining alumnus Lawrence Lenihan '87,
for an innovative internship experience at Resonance Companies. Students will
work with fashion creators and Resonance to build the tools to disrupt the
fashion industry. The 10-week experience will expose these select students to
the business of fashion, giving them a chance to see the leading-edge creators
launching new brands. Students will also receive mentorship from Lenihan, a
veteran of the venture capital industry, and Joseph Ferrera, a veteran of New
York's fashion industry. A generous gift from Lenihan made the funded
internship experience possible.

The six Duke students come from across the Univeristy, including the Pratt
School of Engineering, the Trinity College of Arts and Sciences, the Fuqua
School of Business, and the Graduate School. The diverse backgrounds of these
students reflects the scope and variety of projects and opportunities the
students will have over the summer. The six students were chosen from a pool
of over 50 applicants. They first heard about the program and began the
application process after Lenihan and Ferrera outlined their vision of
fashion's future when visiting Duke for a special presentation during the
Spring Semester.

Resonance Companies is a new venture operating company building the leading
next-generation brands by uniquely combining capital, venture investing
experience, fashion industry insight and expertise, manufacturing knowledge
and capability and technology vision.

For more information on Resonance, see
blogs.wsj.com/venturecapital/2015/12/01/lawrence-lenihan-leaves-firstmark-
capital-for-fashion-venture/

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

