

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Lego-Like Wall Produces Acoustic Holograms

October 14, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

New technology shapes sound waves for applications from speakers to ultrasound
imaging

Research Triangle engineers have developed a simple, energy-efficient way to
create three-dimensional acoustic holograms. The technique could revolutionize
applications ranging from home stereo systems to medical ultrasound devices.

Most everyone is familiar with the concept of visual holograms, which
manipulate light to make it appear as though a 3-D object is sitting in empty
space. These optical tricks work by shaping the electromagnetic field so that
it mimics light bouncing off an actual object.

Sound also travels in waves. But rather than electromagnetic energy traveling
through space, sound propagates as pressure waves that momentarily compress
the molecules they are traveling through. And just like visible light, these
waves can be manipulated into three-dimensional patterns.

“We show the exact same control over a sound wave as people have previously
achieved with light waves,” said Steve Cummer, professor of electrical and
computer engineering at Duke University. “It’s like an acoustic virtual
reality display. It gives you a more realistic sense of the spatial pattern of
the sound field.”

In a paper published Oct. 14 in Nature Scientific Reports, researchers at Duke
and North Carolina State University show that they can create any three-
dimensional pattern they want with sound waves. The achievement is made
possible by metamaterials—synthetic materials composed of many individual,
engineered cells that together produce unnatural properties.

In this case, the metamaterials resemble a wall of Legos. Each individual
block is made of plastic by a 3-D printer and contains a spiral within. The
tightness of the spiral affects the way sound travels through it—the tighter
the coil, the slower sound waves travel through it.

While the individual blocks can’t influence the sound wave’s direction, the
entire device effectively can. For example, if one side of the sound wave is
slowed down but not the other, the resulting wave fronts will be redirected so
that the sound is bent toward the slow side.

“Anybody can tell the difference between a single stereo speaker and a live
string quartet playing music behind them,” explained Yangbo “Abel” Xie, a
doctoral student in Cummer’s laboratory. “Part of the reason why is that the
sound waves carry spatial information as well as notes and volume.”

By calculating how 12 different types of acoustic metamaterial building blocks
will affect the sound wave, researchers can arrange them in a wall to form any
wave pattern on the other side that they want. With enough care, the sound
waves can produce a specific hologram at a specific distance away.

“It’s basically like putting a mask in front of a speaker,” said Cummer. “It
makes it seem like the sound is coming from a more complicated source than it
is.”

Cummer and Xie, in collaboration with Yun Jing, assistant professor of
mechanical and aerospace engineering at NC State, and Tarry Shen, a doctoral
student in Jing’s lab, proved their sound mask works in two different ways. In
the first test, they assembled a metamaterial wall that manipulated an
incoming sound wave into a shape like the letter “A” about a foot away. In a
second demonstration, they showed that the technique can focus sound waves
into several “hot spots”—or loud spots—of sound, also a foot from the device.

There are existing technologies that can also produce this effect. Modern
ultrasound imaging devices, for example, use phased arrays with many
individual transducers that can each produce precisely controlled sound waves.
But this approach has its drawbacks.

“If you’ve ever had an ultrasound done, you know there’s a small wand attached
to a much bigger machine a few feet away,” said Cummer. “Not only can this
setup be cumbersome, it consumes an enormous amount of power. Our approach can
help produce the same effect in a cheaper, smaller system.”

For the metamaterial device to work in such applications, however, each cell
must be smaller than the waves it is manipulating. And for ultrasound
technologies that operate in the megahertz range, this means the individual
cells would have to be 100 times smaller than in the current demonstration
blocks.

Cummer and Xie are looking for industry partners to show that this sort of
fabrication would be possible. They are also shopping the idea around to
industries that work in the kilohertz range, such as aerial sensing and
imaging technologies. And of course, they’re speaking with sound companies to
make a single speaker sound more like a live orchestra.

“We’re currently in the exploration phase, trying to determine where this
technology would be useful,” said Xie. “Any scenario where your goal is to
control sound, this idea could be deployed. And it could be deployed to make
something totally new, or to make something that already exists better,
simpler or cheaper.”

This work was partially supported by the Multidisciplinary University Research
Initiative grant from the Office of Naval Research (N00014-13-1-0631).

CITATION: “Acoustic Holographic Rendering with Two-Dimensional Metamaterial-
Based Passive Phased Array,” Yangbo Xie, Chen Shen, Wenqi Wang, Junfei Li,
Dingjie Suo, Bogdan-Ioan Popa, Yun Jing, and Steven A. Cummer. Nature
Scientific Reports, Oct. 14, 2016. DOI: 10.1038/srep35437

###

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

