

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Advancing Deep Tissue Imaging through Photonic Highways

December 4, 2020 | Michaela Kane

A collaborative team of researchers from Duke BME and the Albert Einstein
College of Medicine were among 13 teams to receive funding for novel imaging
projects

Junjie Yao, assistant professor of biomedical engineering at Duke University,
and his collaborator Vladislav Verkhusha, professor of anatomy and structural
biology at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, have received a grant from
the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative to develop a novel, deep tissue imaging method.
The grant, which will provide $1 million for the first 2.5 years of their
project, will support the researchers as they use a combination of light and
sound to peer deeper into living tissues.

If this initial phase is successful, the team will receive an additional $10
million in funding to further advance and commercialize their work.

Many of today’s optical imaging tools cannot see into deeper layers of tissue,
as the light from these tools is quickly absorbed and scattered, preventing
researchers from seeing more than half a millimeter of tissue. To address this
issue, the team aims to develop a new imaging approach using photoacoustic
tomography (PAT), that allows researchers to combine the properties of light
and ultrasound to create high-resolution images.

“Photoacoustic tomography allows us to convert light beamed through tissue
into ultrasound waves,” says Yao. “The ultrasound waves allow us to see deeper
into the tissue than light would on its own, but it’s not specific enough to
let us see cellular level resolution at large depths. We’re now proposing a
way to break this resolution limit of photoacoustic tomography so we can see
individual cells at greater depths.”

In their three-step approach, the team will first engineer a set of
genetically encoded photoacoustic probes that can absorb near-infrared light,
which can more easily penetrate tissue. These probes are also engineered to
turn on or off, depending on the color of light they receive.

Next, the team will use an acoustic-tunnel method to more effectively send the
near-infrared light deeper into the tissue to hit specific probes. They’ll
achieve this by first sending ultrasound waves into targeted areas tissue,
which can compress or stretch out the tissue and affect how light travels
inside the tissue.

“Photons are like cars,” says Yao. “We are essentially building highways
inside the tissue for the cars to move faster and more efficiently.”

Finally, by engineering the probes to turn on or off in response to the near-
infrared light, the team can more effectively target specific areas of the
tissue and limit cross-talk. This, combined with the targeted light delivery,
will allow the team to more effectively take a photoacoustic image of the
activated probes. Once all the measurements are made, they can then layer
their readings together to create high resolution images at depths as large as
one centimeter.

“We’re honored to be recognized by the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative for this
collaborative research,” says Yao. “We were up against almost 250 teams from
around the globe, and we’re thrilled to have been one of just 13 teams to have
been awarded this funding.”

Founded by Dr. Priscilla Chan and Mark Zuckerberg in 2015, the Chan Zuckerberg
Initiative is a philanthropic organization that leverages technology to help
solve some of the world’s greatest challenges. To learn more about their work
to advance biomedical imaging, view their press release on the Chan Zuckerberg
Initiative site.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

