

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# An Adventure Abroad in Brain-Machine Interfaces

February 19, 2016 | By Olivia Zhu

Matthew McCann, Pratt ’16, spent his summer translating thoughts into
movements.

_Story originally posted on theDuke Research Blog_

A biomedical engineering and mathematics major, the Duke senior contributed to
work in the field of prosthetics by creating a brain-machine interface that
senses different brain waves of a subject and converts them into movements of
a mechanical hand.

McCann, who had never traveled to Europe, let alone lived there for three
months, took his foreign adventure one step further and pursued cutting-edge
research in Rand Almajidy’s biomedical engineering lab in Germany. McCann was
paired with the University of Freiburg for a Research Internship in Science
and Engineering by the German Academic Exchange Service.

McCann combined two prominent biomedical techniques, tri-polar concentric
electroencephalograms (tEEG) and near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS), to pick up
the brain activity of his subjects. EEGs are the typical devices one pictures
when imagining recording brain activity: electrodes stuck all over a subject’s
skull to pick up neuron firing when particular brain regions are active.

NIRS is a novel way of measuring brain activity. A common application of NIRS
is in the pulse oximeter, or the plastic clip-like contraption doctors place
on your finger to measure pulse and blood oxygenation. McCann used NIRS to
measure the blood flow in different regions of the subject’s scalp. Different
patterns of blood flow indicated dynamic brain activity.

Based on data obtained from these two techniques, McCann categorized brain
activity into three specific intentions: thinking about moving the right hand,
thinking about moving the left hand, and thinking about moving the feet. Each
different intention to move was then connected with moving one finger of a
mechanical hand. An example of the hand moving in response to different
intentions is shown below (at 8x speed):

McCann’s major challenges in the project were processing complicated EEG
signals and removing noise from these signals in order to correctly classify
each of the movement intentions. He worked with vast amounts of training data
from subjects who had practiced focusing acutely on each of the movements.

He ultimately isolated the specific frequency bands whose power was modulated
most drastically during the three movement intentions he was targeting. These
frequency bands served as the basis for his machine-learning algorithm, which
matched known data the subjects had been trained to produce with unknown
thoughts about movement.

After developing his algorithm, McCann tested it on unknown data, in which
subjects thought about moving their right hand, their left hand, and their
feet in some arbitrary sequence. McCann’s algorithm ultimately obtained
impressive accuracy of up to 80% when categorizing unknown thoughts about
movements.

Through his research, McCann demonstrated the feasibility of rapidly creating
functional prosthetics from simple materials and only open-source software.
His prosthetic hand proves promising to medical innovation, as it represents a
non-invasive, functional brain-machine interface. Ultimately, his success
sheds optimism on the future of prosthetics.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

