

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# AI in Health

October 11, 2019 | By Ken Kingery

Machine learning algorithms in Duke University’s Department of Electrical and
Computer Engineering were initially deployed in search of landmines. Over the
past two decades, they’ve evolved to generate stunning insights into human
health.

In the late 1990s, Larry Carin and Leslie Collins—both just beginning their
tenures in Duke’s Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering—began
teaching computers how to spot buried landmines. The two worked together with
a team of researchers for several years developing “active learning”
algorithms to optimize their mine-hunting software.

It didn’t take long for those early image-processing strategies to move from
their military roots to the medical realm.

Researchers at the University of Pennsylvania soon added Carin’s active-
learning algorithms to software they were developing to help doctors classify
cancerous cells. While the software already worked reasonably well, the new
algorithms made it more accurate and more consistent. The enhanced toolkit
also reduced the time physicians had to spend labeling cell samples to train
the system, because the algorithm automatically selected the best examples.

It was just one of many early successes that hinted at the revolution to come.

“The power of deep-learning image analysis has become increasingly clear over
the last several years, and image analysis is very important to many aspects
of health care,” said Carin, now the James L. Meriam Professor of Electrical
and Computer Engineering and vice president for research at Duke. “With
examples in radiology, pathology, dermatology, cardiology and more, the
analysis of health-sensing data with machine learning will be transformative
in the coming years.”

Carin should know. He is now leading one research project to autonomously spot
cancerous cells in digitized slides of thyroid biopsies and another to detect
early signs of Alzheimer’s disease through retinal scans.

But he’s hardly alone.

Over the past several years, Duke has hired a string of machine learning
experts and launched several ambitious projects to tie Duke Health and Duke
Engineering closer together. With a growing array of computer engineering
faculty partnering with colleagues in the nearby medical school, and a new
campus-wide initiative focused on AI solutions for health care, Duke ECE is
playing a major role in the university’s commitment to leverage machine
learning to impact human health.

## Sensing for Sound

While Leslie Collins continued her work on detecting landmines well into the
2010s, she has also led several projects that applied machine learning
concepts directly to health care. The earliest example—which continues to this
day— is using machine learning to improve cochlear implants.

Cochlear implants are prosthetic devices that deliver direct electrical
stimulation to auditory nerve fibers, at least partially restoring normal
hearing in deaf individuals. Duke ECE alumnus Blake Wilson developed the
sound-processing strategies used in most modern cochlear implants, which have
to date helped hundreds of thousands of adults and children worldwide.

Using machine learning, Collins’s laboratory is exploring how the spacing
between electrodes and the timing of their interactions affects the user’s
experience. The new signal coding techniques should provide either more
natural neural responses, or a more complete representation of the acoustic
signal, which may improve speech recognition for individuals with cochlear
implants.

In another project involving acoustic signals, Collins and colleagues in the
School of Medicine are using digital stethoscopes and machine learning to
listen for complications with left ventricular assist devices (LVADs), which
are mechanical heart pumps that prolong the life of patients with advanced
heart failures.

Collins is also using machine learning to decode P300 brain waves to allow
patients who are neurologically “locked in” to communicate through a brain-
computer interface using electroencephalography (EEG) data. While initial
proofs-of-concept have already been successful, the laboratory is working to
make the system faster and more robust before seeking a commercialized version
of the technology. Her laboratory is also using EEG data in an attempt to
autonomously monitor the brain function of patients who have sustained brain
injuries to guide early management and provide a foundation for a more
accurate prognosis and trajectory of recovery.

In another project focusing on waveforms, Vahid Tarokh, the Rhodes Family
Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Duke, is working to
automatically diagnose peripheral artery disease. A narrowing of the
peripheral arteries serving the legs, stomach, arms and head, the disease
causes muscle pains and cramping that can become debilitating.

Currently, the disease is diagnosed using audio ultrasound and a trained ear.
Collaborating with Wilkins Aquino, the Anderson-Rupp Professor of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science, and Leila Mureebe, associate professor of
surgery at Duke, Tarokh is working to replace the trained ear with a trained
computer. If successful, the machine learning techniques will not only
construct a classification system based on features of the ultrasound signal,
they will be able to reconstruct the audio waveform to predict the shape of
the blood vessel.

Tarokh is also working with Sina Farsiu, the Paul Ruffin Scarborough Associate
Professor of Engineering, to improve treatment of diabetic macular edema—a
leading cause of blindness in working-age Americans.

The first treatment most patients receive for this disease is called anti-
VEGF. Besides being expensive and requiring regular injections into the eye,
the drug doesn’t work for everyone. If the patient doesn’t respond after
months of invasive, inconvenient treatments, the doctor will try a different
approach. And it will continue like that until a treatment succeeds or the
patient goes blind.

The researchers have, however, developed an artificial intelligence system
that can predict which patients will respond to anti-VEGF treatment. If
successful in retrospective studies and large-scale clinical studies, the
system could greatly reduce the cost and save many eyes from going blind.

## Algorithms for Autism

Another machine-learning expert who entered the field through image
processing—including developing image compression techniques used in the Mars
Rover missions—Guillermo Sapiro, the James B. Duke Professor of Electrical and
Computer Engineering, is also turning attention to problems in health care.

With collaborators in the School of Medicine, including Geraldine Dawson,
director of the Duke Center for Autism and Brain Development, Sapiro is
developing an app to screen for autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Now in
clinical studies, the app uses a smartphone’s or tablet’s ‘selfie’ camera to
record young children’s reactions while they watch movies designed to elicit
autism risk behaviors, such as patterns of emotion and attention, on the
device’s screen.

The videos are sent to the study’s servers, where automatic behavioral coding
software tracks the movement of video landmarks on the child’s face to
quantify emotions and attention. For example, in response to a short movie of
bubbles floating across the screen, the algorithm looks for movements of
facial muscles that indicate interest and joy.

Sapiro is building machine-learning algorithms that connect these fleeting
facial and eye movements to potential signs of ASD. His group is also using
cloud computing tools to develop new machine learning algorithms for privacy
filters for the images and videos they collect.

“We’re trying to tackle the challenge of extracting the information we need
from a person’s face while simultaneously implementing filters to block
information users might not want to share,” said Sapiro. “We’re also working
to make our algorithms become better over time with each user and make them
scalable and more user-friendly.”

With the app showing promising early results, Sapiro is now beginning a
project with Nancy Zucker, director of the Duke Center for Eating Disorders,
to help children with severe eating disorders. Many children too young to
worry about obesity or understand anorexia simply won’t eat, or won’t eat a
varied enough diet to receive all the nutrients they require.

Sapiro and Zucker plan to create a machine learning program to help
characterize the disease as well as compile information from thousands of
families facing these challenges to help find solutions. For example, the
algorithm could help find foods similar in texture and taste to things the
children will eat that will best help round out their diet.

Another new project just starting to take shape has Sapiro working with
colleagues across Duke, including Dennis Turner, professor of neurosurgery;
Warren Grill, the Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School Professor of Biomedical
Engineering; John Pearson, assistant professor of biostatistics and
bioinformatics; and Kyle Mitchell, assistant professor of neurology, to create
a system for measuring behaviors and movements for people using deep brain
stimulation implants to control neuromuscular diseases such as Parkinson’s.
The goal is to provide clinicians a clearer view into how well the technology
is working for each patient so that they might fine-tune the device’s
parameters.

“It’s like when the noise your car has been making for a week suddenly stops
when you get it to the mechanic,” said Sapiro. “Doctors are currently only
seeing a snapshot of their patients’ symptoms while they’re in the clinic. We
want to create a system that provides the doctors with a much more complete
view of how the therapy is working on a day-to-day basis.”

## Revealing Patterns in Health Records

While devices such as OCT scanners, ultrasound machines and smartphone cameras
are creating massive amounts of data for computers to learn from, so is the
growing use of electric medical records. The difference is that rather than
already being bunched together in a nice, tight package, these data are spread
out across multiple systems and multiple doctors.

Although Larry Carin’s expertise in machine learning first took root in
spotting potential explosives, he’s now leading projects to spot potentially
explosive health problems by creating a cohesive view across the diaspora of
medical data.

“The most complex patients are being seen by several doctors with several
specialties, and these at-risk patients are the so-called ‘elephants in the
room,’” said Carin. “Any one doctor generally only gets to touch a small piece
of the elephant and doesn’t see that there’s an elephant in the room. Machine
learning systems don’t have that limitation. They can see the entire clinical
record from all of the doctors and glean insights that that individual doctors
can’t.”

Along with Ricardo Henao, assistant professor of biostatistics and
bioinformatics and electrical and computer engineering, Carin is building a
system to help spot these elephants.

One of the most expensive and dangerous trips to the hospital a person can
take is an unplanned one. By using machine learning to analyze electronic
health records and claims data, Carin and Henao seek to predict which patients
are most at risk for complications that could require emergency care in the
next six months. Once flagged, care managers can look over their medical
records and find appropriate interventions—thereby lowering health care costs
while improving patient outcomes.

“It’s really about engaging with individuals to help them avoid health
complications in the first place,” said Henao. “But to do that, you first need
a machine learning model that says from these 50,000 people, these are the 200
that you really need to pay attention to.”

## AI & Health: The Future at Duke

The kinds of grassroots collaborations that have sprung up across Duke over
the years are now

being actively cultivated, with plans underway to turbo-charge efforts to
develop AI-driven solutions to challenges in health care. A new initiative co-
led by Carin and Robert Califf, Duke Health’s vice chancellor for health data
science, will connect the Schools of Engineering and Medicine and Trinity
College of Arts & Sciences with units such as the Duke Global Health Institute
and the Duke-Margolis Center for Health Policy to leverage machine learning to
improve both individual and population health through education, research and
patient-care projects.

Learning Health Units centered around specialties such as heart, cancer and
pediatrics will embed data scientists in the clinical setting, where they will
work with clinicians to record, analyze and learn from their troves of medical
data to predict and prevent complications and streamline care delivery.

> “We think of this project as the electric company. We don’t own data
> science. We don’t own health data science. But we are going to facilitate it
> and foster it. We’re going to make it easier for people to simply ‘flip the
> switch’ and plug into the data science flowing through Duke, no matter what
> appliance or application they’re using.”
>
> **LARRY CARIN**  
>  JAMES L. MERIAM PROFESSOR OF ECE  
> Duke University VICE PRESIDENT FOR RESEARCH

Duke’s +Data Science program will offer educational programming—including its
popular Machine Learning Summer and Winter Schools—to help develop data
analysis skills in clinicians, researchers, faculty and students university-
wide. And with a new hub for AI in health opening on the fifth floor of the
new Engineering Building (see page 3), Duke also plans to recruit exceptional
new talent to add to the ranks of its faculty developing innovations in
artificial intelligence—including the world-class team in Duke ECE.

“People have said that artificial intelligence will constitute the fourth
industrial revolution and that data is like the electricity of the industrial
revolution,” said Carin. “We think of this project as the electric company. We
don’t own data science. We don’t own health data science. But we are going to
facilitate it and foster it. We’re going to make it easier for people to
simply ‘flip the switch’ and plug into the data science flowing through Duke,
no matter what appliance or application they’re using.”

More from the 2019-2020 Duke ECE Magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

