

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# At Duke, the Future of Pathology Lies in AI

January 14, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

Duke Engineering and the Duke School of Medicine have joined forces to create
a new Division of Artificial Intelligence and Computational Pathology

Researchers at Duke University have been merging artificial intelligence with
health care to improve patient outcomes for the better part of two decades.
From making cochlear implants deliver purer sounds to the brain to finding
hidden trends within reams of patient data, the field spans a diverse range of
niches that are now beginning to make real impacts.

Among these niches, however, there is one in which Duke researchers have
always been at the leading edge—image analysis, with a broad team of
researchers teaching computers to analyze images to unearth everything from
various forms of cancer to biomarkers of Alzheimer’s disease in the retina.

To keep pushing the envelope in this field by cementing these relationships
into both schools’ organization, Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering and School
of Medicine have launched a new Division of Artificial Intelligence and
Computational Pathology.

“Machine learning can do a better job than the average person at finding the
signal in the noise, and that can translate into better outcomes and more
cost-effective care,” said Michael Datto, associate professor of pathology at
Duke. “This is one of the most exciting times I’ve seen in pathology, and it’s
going to be exciting to see what we can do.”

The new division will support translational research by developing AI
technologies for image analysis to enhance the diagnosis, classification,
prediction and prognostication of a variety of diseases, as well as train the
next generation of pathologists and scientists in the emerging field.

The division is led by Carolyn Glass, assistant professor of pathology, and
Laura Barisoni, professor of pathology and medicine, and operates with the
partnership of AI Health, directed by Lawrence Carin, professor of electrical
and computer engineering and vice president for research at Duke, and Adrian
Hernandez, professor of medicine and vice dean for clinical research.

“Duke has taken the lead at the national level in establishing a division in
the Department of Pathology in partnership with AI/Health with the goal of
developing and establishing new models and protocols to practice pathology in
the 21st century,” said Barisoni, who is also director of renal pathology
service at Duke.

AI Health is also a new initiative, launched as a collaboration between the
Schools of Engineering and Medicine and Trinity College of Arts & Sciences,
with units such as the Duke Global Health Institute and the Duke-Margolis
Center for Health Policy, to leverage machine learning to improve both
individual and population health through education, research and patient-care
projects.

“For what everyone has envisioned for AI Health, we see pathology paving the
way,” said Hernandez. “AI Health is a catalyst and spark for putting cutting-
edge machine learning development and testing into real-world settings. In
pathology, we have image-intensive data streams, and COVID-19 has really
emphasized the need for the timely processing of patient samples.”

Applying machine learning image analysis to pathology processes, however, is
easier said than done. Figuring out how to process extremely large image files
and train AI algorithms on relatively few examples is part of the focus of
Carin’s laboratory, in partnership with Ricardo Henao, assistant professor of
biostatistics and bioinformatics as well as electrical and computer
engineering.

Current AI algorithms, such as convolutional neural networks (CNN), were
originally designed for the analysis of natural images, such as those captured
on phones. Adapting such algorithms for the diagnosis of biopsy scans,
however, is challenging due to the large size of the scans--typically of tens
of gigabytes--and the sparsity of abnormal diagnostic cells they contain. Led
by David Dov, a postdoctoral researcher in Carin’s laboratory, Duke engineers
are working to overcome these challenges to design AI algorithms for the
diagnosis of various conditions, such as different types of cancers and
transplant rejection.

“Designing algorithms that make a real impact on clinical practice requires
close collaboration between AI researchers and pathologists,” said Dov, who
joined Duke after completing his PhD in electrical engineering at The Technion
- Israel Institute of Technology. “A key challenge in these collaborations is
gaining a deep understanding of the gaps in medical practice, and then
ensuring that clinicians fully understand the capabilities and limitations of
AI in bridging these gaps. The new Division of Artificial Intelligence and
Computational Pathology plays an important role in facilitating such
collaborations.”

In a virtual kickoff meeting this fall, the new division’s leadership spoke to
the potential it holds to improve patient health outcomes and several
researchers delved into projects they already have underway in the field. For
example, Danielle Range, assistant professor of pathology, spoke of efforts to
use AI in diagnosing cancer; Roarke Horstmeyer, assistant professor of
biomedical engineering, described his efforts to create a “smart microscope”
to better diagnose disease; and Glass detailed her work on the use of machine
learning in diagnosing transplant rejection.

“In the last couple of years, we have seen an exponential increase in AI
pathology interest from Duke undergraduates to medical students applying for
Pathology residency positions,” said Glass. “I think continued development of
a solid, integrated curriculum and educational program will be critical to
train these future leaders.”

## Related News

November 20, 2019

### Machine Learning Microscope Adapts Lighting to Improve Diagnoses

October 11, 2019

### AI in Health

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

