

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# "Aiming High" to Innovate With the Department of Defense

February 2, 2023 | By Capt. Kippun Sumner

Duke partners with the Michigan Air National Guard and the U.S. Air Force to
accelerate innovation in the Department of Defense

Military leaders, academic experts and industry partners from around the
country recently gathered at Duke University to identify and attempt to solve
some of the Department of Defense’s highest-level strategic challenges. Their
mission, should they choose to accept it; to “Accelerate, Change or Lose.”

That is the action order that the U.S. Air Force’s Chief of Staff, General
Charles Q. Brown Jr., challenged his service with when he assumed command in
2020. It’s also the driving mindset behind the Academia-Industry-Military
Hybrid Innovation (AIM-HI) program—a 10-week intensive course in innovation
that is part of a new partnership between Duke and the Air National Guard.

“We are certifying service members to be innovators,” said Michigan Air
National Guard Lt. Col. David Brewer, AIM-HI Program Director. “We’re training
them to pursue rapid, disruptive innovation to transform the military and echo
Gen. Brown’s challenge to modernize the force.”

> “We are certifying service members to be innovators. We’re training them to
> pursue rapid, disruptive innovation to transform the military and echo Gen.
> Brown’s challenge to modernize the force.”
>
> Lt. col. david brewer, Michigan Air National Guard, AIM-HI Program Director

In a rapidly changing global landscape with dynamic new challenges, the Air
Force and DoD at large are looking to build a culture of innovation. A key
priority of that effort is forming new and innovative military partnerships
with academic and industrial partners.

“AIM-HI is partnering with Duke University and the National Security
Innovation Network to bolster new and emerging capabilities for leading
national security initiatives,” Lt Col Brewer said.

The AIM-HI Program, officially certified through the University of Michigan
and the Kelly Johnson Joint All-domain Innovation Center, seeks not only to
create new ideas, but to instill a lasting culture of innovative thinking in
the U.S. military.

“It’s an outstanding collaboration, these participants are coming from the Air
National Guard, the Air Force, the U.S. Army, special operations communities
and even a Duke Air Force ROTC Cadet,” Lt Col Brewer said. “It’s the full
spectrum of ranks and career fields and operational experience.”

During the kick-off week held in-residence at Duke, the 25 AIM-HI students
broke out into five-member teams and tackled a high-level DoD challenge such
as space resiliency, agile combat employment, combat medical responses and
more. Guided by veteran participants and innovation coaches, project
participants rapidly formed team dynamics and built out the first steps of
translating abstract challenges into actionable problem statements and
solutions.

The connection between Duke and the DoD is Professor Robb Olsen, an assistant
professor at the Duke Pratt School of Engineering, and his wife Kate Olsen, a
Duke Engineering Alumni. They work in tandem as the AIM-HI Program Curriculum
Lead Instructors.

“After a career of innovation in industry, it is a joy to be back on Duke’s
campus teaching qualitative research methods and innovation to our military,”
said Kate Olsen, who received her Bachelor of Science in Engineering from Duke
in 1986.

> “This sort of partnership furthers a strategic imperative we have at Pratt,
> to strengthen our collaborations with industry and the military. Duke is a
> landmark location for research and education, and we want it to be that for
> innovation as well.”
>
> kate olsen, P'86

“This sort of partnership furthers a strategic imperative we have at Pratt, to
strengthen our collaborations with industry and the military,” Olsen said.
“Duke is a landmark location for research and education, and we want it to be
that for innovation as well.”

“Both the armed forces and Duke have strong traditions and cultures that will
be on full display this week as we pursue what we hope will become the first
collaboration of a long-term partnership with AIM-HI,” said Jerome Lynch, the
Vinik Dean of the Pratt School of Engineering. “Serving our country through
the armed forces is one of the noblest callings one can follow, and the
opportunity to host this program is our way to honor this service and
everything the military does to ensure the security and prosperity of our
country and our communities.”

After the initial week at Duke, participants will continue to hone their ideas
and innovation pitches at locations across the country, partnering with
additional military programs (such as U.S. Special Operations Command), and
industry partners before ending with a pitch to senior leaders in Washington,
D.C.

What makes this program special is that it is more than just a study in
innovation, but a real-world opportunity for teams to have their ideas
implemented in the Department of Defense.

“For me as an educator, it’s more than just theory; I am interested in giving
people skills that work and scale out in the world. That’s our big priority
with AIM-HI. It’s not just an academic program. We learn innovation by doing,”
said Olsen. “Last round, we had five out of our eight participating teams
receive actual funding to solve big strategic challenges of importance to the
Air Force Chief of Staff and other senior military leaders.”

> “Serving our country through the armed forces is one of the noblest callings
> one can follow, and the opportunity to host this program is our way to honor
> this service and everything the military does to ensure the security and
> prosperity of our country and our communities.”
>
> Jerome Lynch, Vinik Dean of the Pratt School of Engineering

“We are a professional development program, we are trying to take the talent
that comes from within Duke, and roll it into AIM-HI to better the output for
the DoD,” Lt. Col. Brewer said. “We’re trying to build a replicable process
for these service members to take back to their units.”

Students that complete the course will receive a certificate in professional
innovation from the University of Michigan, and U.S. Air Force members can
apply for and receive a special experience identifier, authorizing them to
formally educate their home units about the practices learned in the program.

“We’ve taken the best of how academia teaches innovation and how the military
executes it, and we’ve melded that into something unique, more advanced and
more effective than any one method of innovation,” Olsen said. “This program
is the equivalent of about two-and-a-half graduate semesters condensed into 10
weeks. It’s intensive and highly selective. This sort of sponsorship between
the Michigan Air National Guard and a program like AIM-HI is how we win.”

With a focus on generating the adoption of new ideas and processes and a
hybrid blend of theory study and real-world implementation, the AIM-HI program
has a promising future. Not just to train future leaders, but to build a
lasting community of practice for both the defense industry and academic
communities alike.

“Innovation is a useful new thing adopted by a human group,” says Olsen. “If
it’s only useful and new, it’s just an invention. But when you add ‘adopting
by a human group’ as a requirement…that’s where you change the world.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

