

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Alumni Profile: Steven McClelland

April 30, 2014

VP Product Management, Yahoo! | San Francisco, Calif.

****

**Graduation Year:** 1995

**Degree at Duke:**  
Bachelor of Science

**Major/Program:**  
Electrical Engineering

**Career Highlights:**

Steven McClelland is VP of product management at Yahoo, where he manages the
ways that Yahoo creates, distributes and manages its content. He joined Yahoo!
in 2010 when it acquired Citizen Sports, where he served as both chief
architect and a product strategist. Prior to that, he founded Interdimensions,
a Web-consulting company that designed and built systems ranging from content
management to cache routing for clients.

> Being at Duke taught me that the most innovative solutions come about when
> the people working on a problem come from both inside and outside the
> technology field. The more people there are thinking about a problem in
> different ways, the more solutions and opportunities for innovation you can
> come up with.

#### How has your electrical engineering degree served you in your career?

My engineering education taught me how to think and talk about technology and
systems in order to solve problems. I learned about architecture – how the
parts of a system work and how it all works together – and how to narrow down
where to look when you see symptoms of an issue.

Pratt gave me tons of core technology exposure and lots of opportunities to
work on a range of ways to solve problems. I even got to build actual
products, including an electric car.

All of that prepared me for how I apply technology in my career. I’m always
thinking about how to match the technology to the actual product usage, what
pieces are necessary to do that, what the interface is between those pieces
and what could go wrong.

#### What do you see as the growth areas in electrical and computer
engineering today?

It’s an especially good time to get into product development because of all
the progress being made in terms of combining software and hardware in new
types of devices. When I got out of school, there were a lot of incubators and
startups in software, but not a lot in hardware and fields like biomedical
engineering. No one really knew how to bring those things together and use
them in products.

Since then, there have been so many advances based upon the progress made in
technology and circuitry. Every great product today has a lot of software and
networking capability, and hardware is increasingly playing a bigger,
differentiated role in many products.

#### What do you think was the value of earning your engineering degree from
Duke?

Being at Duke taught me that the most innovative solutions come about when the
people working on a problem come from both inside and outside the technology
field. The more people there are thinking about a problem in different ways,
the more solutions and opportunities for innovation you can come up with.

Engineers tend to bring a practical approach to solving problems, and when you
combine that with, for instance, the creativity of people like artists and
musicians, it creates great things all the way around.

This way of thinking is important not only in today’s product-development
world, but also in helping me build a solid team of people with different
skill sets and sensibilities.

Read more: ECE alumni discuss their career paths

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

