

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Alumni Spotlight: MEMP '12 Alumnus Muhammad Anwar Ul Haq Selected for the
World Energy Council's Future Energy Leaders' Program

May 24, 2016 | By Christina Plante

As a Future Energy Leader, Anwar will tackle some of the world's most complex
energy problems in a community of the next generation of energy leaders.

_Published on thePratt Professional Masters Programs blog_

With MEMP students representing a number of different industries, we are
delighted to highlight an accomplishment of one of our alumni in the Energy
sector. As a Future Energy Leader, Anwar will tackle some of the world's most
complex energy problems in a community of the next generation of energy
leaders.

**About Anwar**

Anwar is currently a partner and head of renewables practice at Aequitas Pvt.
Ltd., which is Pakistan's most active financial advisory and energy project
development outfit. He leads crucial business initiatives including deal
sourcing, transaction advisory and execution.

He is also an Energy Risk Professional, certified by the Global Association of
Risk Professionals, and brings strategic consulting, venture financing,
private placement, financial advisory and project/operations management
experience to the table. He has over 8 years of work experience with global
organizations like Schlumberger and World Bank Group. His areas of expertise
include energy modeling, technology rollout, strategy consulting, project
finance, operations and risk management. He has also served as Chief Strategy
Officer at Quaid-e-Azam Solar Power Pvt. Ltd., Pakistan's first solar IPP.

While at Duke, Anwar was a Fulbright scholar and active with the Program
Development Committee. He also holds a B.Sc. in Electrical Engineering from
University of Engineering and Technology, Lahore.

**World Energy Council**

The Future Energy Leaders Program was developed by The World Energy Council,
which is the principal impartial network of leaders and practitioners
promoting an affordable, stable and environmentally sensitive energy system
for the greatest benefit of all.

Formed in 1923, the Council is the UN-accredited global energy body,
representing the entire energy spectrum, with more than 3,000 member
organizations located in over 90 countries and drawn from governments, private
and state corporations, academia, NGOs and energy-related stakeholders.

The World Energy Council informs global, regional and national energy
strategies by hosting high- level events, publishing authoritative studies,
and working through its extensive member network to facilitate the world's
energy policy dialogue.

**Future Energy Leaders' Program**

This World Council's community of young professionals is a network of
exceptional individuals from across the globe who represent the different
players the energy sectors is composed of including government, energy
industry, academia, civil society and social entrepreneurs.

The program is designed to identify, encourage and inspire the next generation
of energy leaders, facilitating dialogue and discussion on critical
developments in the energy sector. Every year, they welcome around 35
exceptional young professionals to join the group of 100 Future Energy Leaders
from over ninety different countries across the globe for on average three
years.

Anwar will be able to further his experience, knowledge and skills in an
energy-focused environment and contribute to the Council's global dialogue.
Helping to develop new ways of thinking and frame the future of sustainable
energy, Anwar will have the unique opportunity to create his own, personal
network of like-minded, equally motivated personalities of today.

Through the program, Future Energy Leaders can:

  * Attend select global, regional and national events
  * Attend the World Energy Congress
  * Attend an exclusive, annual Future Energy Leaders' Summit
  * Create an annual FEL-100 World Energy Issues Monitor
  * Contribute to special FEL-100 reports
  * Access and contribute to the Council's global studies and technical
    research
  * Develop and share a FEL-100 vision
  * Network with global energy leaders

Join us in celebrating Anwar's accomplishment!

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

