

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Alumni Profile: Tynesia Boyea-Robinson

April 30, 2014

President and CEO, Reliance Methods | Washington, DC

**Graduation Year:** 1999

**Degree at Duke:**  
Bachelor of Science

**Major/Program:**  
Computer Science  
Electrical Engineering

**Career Highlights:**

Tynesia Boyea-Robinson is president and CEO of Reliance Methods, a Washington,
D.C.-based strategy and talent solutions firm she founded in 2011. Another of
her many roles is Director of Collective Impact for Living Cities, a
collaboration of some of the world’s largest foundations and financial
institutions aimed at improving the lives and communities of the economically
disadvantaged.

> My time at Duke showed me how engineers can help solve the world’s problems
> and helped me develop the tools to be one of those people. It gave me
> confidence about what I, myself, could accomplish.

#### What are you passionate about?

I’m very passionate about ensuring all people have access to opportunities
that allow them to not just survive, but thrive. Some of the best pathway
opportunities are in the sciences, and women and minorities are often
underrepresented. I often share my experiences with young people – especially
women and people of color – to expose them to the many pathways available when
they enter fields like engineering and computer science.

I’m also passionate about working with employers – many of whom are used to
looking in rather narrow places for talent and kind of writing off some parts
of the population – and helping them come up with creative ways to attract and
retain good employees. I try to help them see that by considering and hiring
people they may not have looked at in the past, they gain a competitive edge
and do something good.

#### How did your time at Pratt help prepare you for the many things you do
now?

As an undergraduate, I was – and still am – excited by the way engineers think
and solve problems, and the questions they’re able to answer on a completely
different level. I learned that whether they’re designing a computer program
or a cerebral shunt, engineers are taught to use the same thought processes
and rigor to solve all types of problems. I rely on those problem-solving
skills every day.

I also learned the importance of doing cross-disciplinary work – of reaching
out to people outside of my field to get different perspectives on a problem –
and putting all that information together to come up with solutions. This is
something else that my career calls for every day.

My time at Duke showed me how engineers can help solve the world’s problems
and helped me develop the tools to be one of those people. That gave me
confidence about what I, myself, could accomplish.

#### What’s special about Duke’s ECE Program?

Duke Engineering is a culture that demands excellence, and students are taught
to use their brains to make the impossible possible. I was always challenged
to push myself to the edge of my learning curve to achieve concrete, sustained
excellence.

There’s a strong emphasis on using what you learn to solve problems – as
opposed to designing widgets. This is especially valuable in today’s workforce
and economy, where “What problems do you solve?” is becoming a more relevant
question than “What do you do?”

Pratt faculty members understand that, and they stress the idea that as
engineers, we should try to leave the world a better place than it was before
we got here.

#### What advice would you give today’s Duke engineering students?

I would tell them to really take advantage of all Duke has to offer while
they’re there. The faculty members know what they’re teaching inside and out,
and they bring a lot of real-life experience to the classroom. I specifically
remember Dr. [Richard] Fair having a lot of awesome stories.

I would also advise students to never limit themselves in what they do and
think they can do – which is advice I would give to anyone.

When I was growing up, I wanted to be a performer; I wanted to be Debbie
Allen. It didn’t quite turn out that way, but I always knew that I wanted to
do something that would challenge me and that I could use no matter where I
ended up. Engineering definitely has that; you can use those skills anywhere.

Read more: ECE alumni discuss their career paths

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

