

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Researchers Are Using Machine Learning to Screen for Autism in Children

July 11, 2019

An interdisciplinary collaboration is using Amazon Web Services machine
learning algorithms to connect children's facial expressions to potential
signs of ASD

For more than five years, researchers from Duke Engineering and the Duke
University School of Medicine have been working toward creating an app that
can help screen for autism in young children. With results from the first
pilot study rolling in just last year, their work is leading to new insights
about autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and has the potential to transform how
children’s development is screened and monitored.

“Babies who go on to develop autism typically don’t pay attention to social
cues,” said Geraldine Dawson, director of the Duke Center for Autism and Brain
Development, in a recent article published on Wired. “They’re more interested
in non-social things, like toys or objects. They’re also less emotionally
expressive. They smile less, particularly in response to positive social
events.”

The app first administers caregiver consent forms and survey questions and
then uses the phone's 'selfie' camera to collect videos of young children's
reactions while they watch movies designed to elicit autism risk behaviors,
such as patterns of emotion and attention, on the device's screen.

The videos of the child's reactions are sent to the study's servers, where
automatic behavioral coding software tracks the movement of video landmarks on
the child's face and quantifies the child's emotions and attention. For
example, in response to a short movie of bubbles floating across the screen,
the video coding algorithm looks for movements of the face that would indicate
joy.

The initial study, from informed consent to data collection and preliminary
analysis, was conducted with an app available for free from Apple Store and
based on Apple's ResearchKit open source development platform. (Video -
apple.com/researchkit)

Guillermo Sapiro, professor of electrical and computer engineering, is using
Amazon Web Services and tools called TensorFlow and PyTorch to build machine
learning algorithms that connect children’s facial expressions and eye
movements to potential signs of ASD. His group is also using these cloud
computing tools to develop new machine learning algorithms for privacy filters
for the images and videos they collect.

Through the app, the Duke team was able to collect behavior data from about
1,700 children—far more than the 50 to 100 typically found in an ASD study.
With that amount of data in hand, the researchers have so far found the app to
be almost 90 percent accurate for some subsets of behaviors.

“The more algorithms, the more people, the more resources we put toward this
data, the better the potential outcomes for patients,” Sapiro said in an
article on Wired. “I wish every child in the world could meet with an ASD
specialist, but that’s unrealistic. If we could provide ASD screening at a
large scale, that would be a tremendous contribution.”

## Related News

June 04, 2018

### Mobile App for Autism Screening Yields Useful Data

October 15, 2015

### Duke Launches Autism Research App with Global Reach

May 22, 2014

### Screening for Autism: There's an App for That

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

