

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Antibiotics Don't Promote Swapping of Resistance Genes

April 11, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

Bacterial resistance spreads through population dynamics, not an increase in
gene transfers

Researchers have shown that, outside of a few specific examples, antibiotics
do not promote the spread of bacterial antibiotic resistance through genetic
swapping, as previously assumed.

While the overuse of antibiotics is undeniably at the heart of the growing
global crisis, new research published online April 11 in Nature Microbiology
suggests differential birth and death rates and not DNA donation are to blame.
The results have implications for designing antibiotic protocols to avoid the
spread of antibacterial resistance.

“The entire field knows there’s a huge problem of overusing antibiotics,” said
Lingchong You, the Paul Ruffin Scarborough Associate Professor of Engineering
at Duke University and lead author on the paper. “It is incredibly tempting to
assume that antibiotics are promoting the spread of resistance by increasing
the rate at which bacteria share resistant genes with each other, but our
research shows they often aren’t.”

It’s long been known that bacteria can swap DNA through a process called
conjugation, which allows helpful genes to spread quickly between individuals
and even between species.

Because the number of resistant bacteria rises when antibiotics fail to kill
them, researchers assumed that the drugs increased the amount of genetic
swapping taking place. But You thought maybe the drugs were killing off the
two “parent” lineages and allowing a newly resistant strain to thrive instead.

“Previous studies haven’t been able to tease these two ideas apart, but our
work decoupled them,” said Allison Lopatkin, a doctoral student in You’s
laboratory and the lead author of the study. “We showed at the single-cell
level that the exchange of resistant genes is not influenced by antibiotics at
all, which is in contrast to the literature.”

In her experiments, Lopatkin put bacterial cells under a sort of suspended
animation where they could neither die nor reproduce but they could still swap
genes. With the birth and death rates no longer a variable, the researchers
could see how the rate of gene exchanges responded to antibiotics.

They tested nine clinical pathogens commonly associated with the rapid spread
of resistance and exposed them to ten common drugs representing each major
class of antibiotics.

The rates of gene exchange in each test remained flat and, in a few cases,
actually decreased slightly as the concentration of antibiotics grew.

“It would seem that when antibiotics are applied, the DNA swapping has already
occurred and continues to do so,” You said. “Depending on their doses, the
drugs can let the newly resistant bacteria emerge as the winners. When this
occurs, the new strain is much more prevalent than before if tests are run
after some growth of the new strain.”

You points out that there are a few proven examples of antibiotics directly
inducing the expression of the genes responsible for donating resistance, but
they are very specific. For example, the antibiotic tetracycline induces the
expression of genes that only transfer tetracycline resistance.

The new study shows that despite these outliers, antibiotics don’t promote
resistance spread by inducing global changes at the cellular level. The
researchers hope further research will soon help clinicians design better
antibacterial protocols.

“This has direct implications in terms of how we design doses and protocols,”
said You. “Some antibacterial combinations can drastically promote the overall
transfer dynamics. Other combinations, on the other hand, can suppress the
pathogens equally well without promoting genetic transfers. These are the
issues we’re hoping to address in follow-up research. We’re trying to learn
how to design the antibiotic treatment protocols in such a way that they will
be effective but won’t promote the spread of antibiotic resistance.”

Other authors on the paper include Shuqiang Huang, Jaydeep Srimani and Tatyana
Sysoeva of the You lab; Robert Smith from Nova Southeastern University; Sharon
Bewick from University of Maryland; and David Karig from the Johns Hopkins
University Applied Physics Laboratory.

The work is supported by grants from US Army Research Office, the National
Institutes of Health and the Packard Foundation.

# # #

“Antibiotics as a selective driver for conjugation dynamics,” Allison J.
Lopatkin, Shuqiang Huang, Robert P. Smith, Jaydeep K. Srimani, Tatyana A.
Sysoeva, Sharon Bewick, David Karig, Lingchong You. Nature Microbiology, April
11, 2016. DOI: 10.1038/NMICROBIOL.2016.44

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

