

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Antimicrobial Coating for Orthopedic Implants Prevents Dangerous Infections

September 17, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

Customizable to individual patients and requiring less than 10 minutes to
prepare and use, new surgical implant coating prevented 100% of infections in
mice

Biomedical engineers and surgeons at Duke University and UCLA have
demonstrated an antibiotic coating that can be applied to orthopedic implants
minutes before surgery that eliminates the chances of an infection around the
implant.

In early trials in mice, the coating prevented all subsequent infections, even
without infusions of antibiotics into the bloodstream, which is the current
standard of care. After 20 days, the coating did not reduce the bone’s ability
to fuse with the implant and was completely absorbed by the body.

The results appear online September 16 in the journal Nature Communications.

The project began when Tatiana Segura, professor of biomedical engineering at
Duke, met Nicholas Bernthal, interim chair and executive medical director at
the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, who specializes in pediatric
orthopedic oncology and surgery. He told Segura that many children being
treated for bone cancer have large portions of bone removed, which then
requires orthopedic implants. But because the patients are usually also
undergoing chemotherapy, their immune systems are weak and they are especially
vulnerable to bacteria colonizing the surface of the implant.

“These kids face the choice of having chemotherapy versus saving their limb or
even sometimes needing amputations to survive, which sounds horrific to me,”
Segura said. “All they really need is something to rub on the implant to stop
an infection from taking hold, because preventing an infection is much easier
than treating one. So we came up with this coating technology that we hope
will provide a solution.”

Implant infections aren’t unique to children or to cancer patients, however.
For joint replacement surgeries, for example, infection occurs in 1% of
primary and up to 7% of revision surgeries, which requires repeated revision
surgeries and prolonged intravenous antibiotics. Treatment doesn’t always
work, however, as these patients have a higher five-year mortality risk than
those diagnosed with HIV/AIDS or breast cancer. Implant infections are
estimated to cost the health care system more than $8.6 billion annually in
the U.S. alone.

Part of the challenge of treating these infections is that bacteria colonize
the surface of the implants themselves. This means that there are no blood
vessels flowing through the bacterial colonies to deliver the antibiotics
coursing through a patient’s veins. The only recourse is often the removal of
the original implant, which is usually the best of what are only bad options.

Some doctors have taken to their own solutions, such as using antibiotic
powder when closing the surgical wound or infusing the bone cement used to
hold the implant in place with antibiotics. Neither of these tactics have been
proven to be clinically effective. There is also the option of implant
manufacturers adding antibiotic properties to their devices. But this would
greatly reduce the product’s shelf life and also require a long and
complicated process of FDA approval, since the implants would then be in a new
classification.

Segura’s new antibiotic coating sidesteps all of these challenges.

“We’ve shown that a point-of-care, antibiotic-releasing coating protects
implants from bacterial challenge, and can be quickly and safely applied in
the operating room without the need to modify existing implants,” said
Christopher Hart, a resident physician in UCLA Orthopaedic Surgery who helped
conduct the experiments.

The new antimicrobial coating is made of two polymers, one that repels water
and one that mixes well with water. Both are combined in a solution with an
antibiotic of the physician’s choosing and then applied directly to the
orthopedic implant by dipping, painting or spraying. When exposed to a bright
ultraviolet light, the two polymers couple together and self-assemble into a
grid-like structure that traps the antibiotics.

The reaction is an example of “click chemistry,” which is a general way of
describing reactions that happen quickly at room temperature, produce only a
single reaction product, have an extremely high yield and occur within a
single container.

"This study is a great example of the power of click chemistry in biomedical
applications,” said Weixian Xi, now a senior scientist at Illumina who was a
postdoctoral researcher at UCLA during the study. “This ‘smart’ and
‘clickable’ polymeric coating enables protections of implants from bacterial
infection and makes a personalized approach possible."

“Our coating can be personalizable because it can use almost any antibiotic,”
Segura continued. “The antibiotic can be chosen by the physician based on
where in the body the device is being implanted and what pathogens are common
in whatever part of the world the surgery is taking place.”

The click chemistry polymer grid also has an affinity for metal. Tests
involving various types of implants showed that the coating was very difficult
to rub off during surgical procedures. Once inside the body, however, the
conditions cause the polymer to degrade, slowly releasing the antibiotics over
the course of two to three weeks.

In the study, researchers rigorously tested the coating in mice with either
leg or spine implants. After 20 days, the coating did not inhibit the bone’s
growth into the implant and prevented 100% of infections. This time period,
the researchers say, is long enough to prevent the vast majority of these
types of infections from occurring.

The researchers have not yet tested their coating on larger animals. Since
larger animals—such as humans—have larger bones and need larger implants,
there is much more surface area to protect against bacterial infections. But
the researchers are confident that their invention is up to the task and plan
to pursue the steps needed to commercialize the product.

“We believe this transdisciplinary work represents the future of surgical
implants, providing a point of application coating that transforms the implant
from a hotspot for infection into a ‘smart’ antimicrobial therapeutic,”
Bernthal said. “You only need to treat a single patient with an infected
implant to realize how transformational this could be for patient care —saving
both life and limbs for many.”

This research was supported by the National Institute of Arthritis and
Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases of the National Institutes of Health
(5K08AR069112-01, T32AR059033).

“Point-Of-Care Antimicrobial Coating Protects Orthopaedic Implants From
Bacterial Challenge.” Weixian Xi, Vishal Hegde, Stephen D. Zoller, Howard Y.
Park, Christopher M. Hart, Takeru Kondo, Christopher D. Hamad, Yan Hu, Amanda
H. Loftin, Daniel O. Johansen, Zachary Burke, Samuel Clarkson, Chad Ishmael,
Kellyn Hori, Zeinab Mamouei, Hiroko Okawa, Ichiro Nishimura, Nicholas M.
Bernthal and Tatiana Segura. Nature Communications, Sept. 17, 2021. DOI:
10.1038/s41467-021-25383-z

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

