

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Archived: New Duke Facility Will Advance Engineering, Physics

April 29, 2015

Duke University plans to build a $100 million, 85,000-square-foot facility to
expand education and research programs in engineering and physics.

Duke University plans to build a $100 million, 85,000-square-foot facility to
expand education and research programs in engineering and physics. Scheduled
to open in 2018, the building will create a hub where engineering and physics
faculty work together with graduate and undergraduate students to develop
solutions to society’s greatest challenges—from making solar energy economical
to engineering better medicines.

Plans for the new building were announced during celebrations for the 75th
anniversary of Duke Engineering on April 25.

“This facility will make possible the best of Duke’s vision for teaching and
learning: bringing together students from different fields of study to work
collaboratively on projects that address the problems of our time,” said Duke
President Richard H. Brodhead. “It will provide a physical home for Duke’s
growing partnerships that link engineering with the sciences and liberal arts,
helping our students develop the broad perspectives they need to become
leaders and innovators.”

The new facility will be on Duke’s West Campus, between the Teer Engineering
Building and the Physics Building. Current plans include approximately 25,000
square feet of educational space—teaching labs and classrooms shared between
the Pratt School of Engineering and Trinity College of Arts & Sciences that
are designed to facilitate team-based, experiential learning. There will also
be a 5,000-square-foot, 150-seat auditorium, plus 40,000 square feet for
engineering research and 15,000 square feet for physics research. The common
space will support integrated science and engineering teaching and
opportunities for undergraduate research.

“The building will provide a literal and metaphorical bridge between
engineering and the sciences—a place where the grand challenges of engineering
meet the big questions of physics,” said Tom Katsouleas, Vinik Dean of
Engineering, who worked closely with Trinity Dean Laurie Patton in developing
the vision for the facility. “The new building will significantly enhance our
ability to provide the kind of hands-on teaching connected to real societal
issues that has become a signature of a Duke education, through initiatives
such as the National Academy of Engineering Grand Challenge Scholars program.”

Pratt is one of the fastest-rising engineering schools in the nation. Graduate
and undergraduate enrollment is up, the school’s faculty has grown by 20
percent over the past decade, and external research funding has more than
doubled in that time.

“By providing much-needed space, the new facility will support the ambitious
teaching and research agendas of our current faculty, and enable us to
leverage the Vinik Grand Challenge Professorships to recruit new faculty who
deepen our strengths,” Katsouleas said. “We’re also excited about the ways
this space will help us forge new bonds with our colleagues in physics and the
sciences, similar to the way the Fitzpatrick Center for Interdisciplinary
Engineering, Medicine & Applied Sciences has strengthened the ties between
engineering and medicine.”

The inclusion of state-of-the-art space for applied physics research will not
only enhance recruitment and retention of top faculty in that department, but
create a dynamic environment for educational and industry collaborations, said
Dan Kiehart, dean of natural sciences for Trinity College of Arts & Sciences.

“This building represents a significant and transformative investment in
science and engineering at Duke,” Kiehart said. “Some of our top physicists
are also engineering faculty, and our engineering and physics students share
core classes, so it’s a very natural partnership. Co-locating the disciplines
will dramatically expand the opportunities for joint research and the
discovery-oriented educational experiences that are so important to prepare
our students for leadership positions in academia and industry.”

Fundraising for the facility is part of Duke Forward, the seven-year,
university-wide campaign that aims to raise $3.25 billion by June 30, 2017.
Every dollar donated to Duke's 10 schools and units, Duke Medicine or
university programs and initiatives counts toward the campaign.

Pending final approval from Duke’s Board of Trustees, groundbreaking for the
new building will take place by late 2016.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

