

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# ARPA-E Supports Miniaturized Mass Spectrometer Project at Duke

February 18, 2015

The Department of Energy’s Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E)
has awarded a team from Duke University a major grant to develop a next-
generation methane detector to sniff out natural gas leaks across America.

The grant is part of the Methane Observation Networks with Innovative
Technology to Obtain Reductions (MONITOR) program focused on reducing methane
emissions associated with energy production to build a more sustainable energy
future. Led by Jeffrey Glass, professor of electrical and computer engineering
and Hogg Family Director of Engineering Management & Entrepreneurship, the
three-year, $3 million project will design, build and commercialize a
miniaturized, low-cost mass spectrometer that can serve as an efficient and
sensitive methane detector.

“Developing a miniature mass spectrometer to measure methane leaks at well
platforms will translate into reduced emissions and less waste of natural
gas,” said Glass. “It fits into ARPA-E’s goals of becoming less dependent on
foreign oil, and it will also help decrease the impact of the natural gas
industry on the environment.”

A mass spectrometer can tell many elements and chemicals apart by variations
in how they move through the device caused by differences in their mass. After
passing through a narrow slit, a molecule’s flight path is determined largely
by its size, causing different molecules to hit a detector in different
places.

The Duke team’s design, called a coded aperture, uses many slits, allowing
many more molecules to pass through in a smaller amount of time. The result is
a jumbled mess on the other side—but a jumbled mess that can be decoded.

“One of the reasons Duke was awarded this grant is because we have a group
here that’s fantastic at designing and using coded apertures,” said Michael
Gehm, associate professor of electrical and computer engineering at Duke and a
member of the project team. “We’ve been doing this with light for a long time,
and we’re the first group in the world to take on this approach with ions
instead of photons in a major initiative.”

According to Charles Parker, manager of the Glass Laboratory, the fact that
the design allows many more molecules to pass through gives it a much higher
sensitivity than a traditional mass spectrometer, with no loss in accuracy.
Not only does this allow the spectrometer to detect lower levels of a molecule
such as methane, it also cuts down on size and cost.

“The end goal of this project is to commercialize a mass spectrometer that is
around 20 pounds and can fit in a backpack,” said Parker. “That’s a big
improvement from today’s behemoths weighing hundreds of pounds that have to be
transported by truck, which is why they’re rarely transported at all.”

Such a small and sensitive methane detector could be carried to natural gas
platforms and other parts of the infrastructure that could have potentially
large leaks to check for escaping methane. The goal is to eliminate leaks to
reduce methane emissions into the environment while simultaneously reducing
America’s dependence on foreign oil.

“Although this grant is focused on engineering a methane detector for well
platforms, it could eventually be used from well head to end user,” said Jason
Amsden, a research scientist in Glass’s lab, who sees potential for the design
to be used to check small commercial pipelines and connections in consumers’
homes.

Future applications are expected to expand well beyond environmental
detection. “I expect it will eventually be used in every doctor’s office,”
added Glass. “As we move into an era of personalized medicine, a small, cost-
efficient device like this could look at a person’s individual biochemical
characteristics. Rather than having to send samples out, clinicians could get
their answers in real-time at the point of care.”

Because ARPA-E always has its eye on future commercialization prospects of the
projects it funds, Duke is partnering with RTI International along with
several students in Duke’s Masters of Engineering Management program to look
at potential spin-off companies or tech transfer strategies. RTI
International’s Innovation Advisors group specializes in commercialization of
early stage technologies making them a natural choice for collaboration on the
project.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

