

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# The art of analysis

July 10, 2013 | by Ashley Yeager

ngrid Daubechies has been collecting information about artworks, trying to
understand the differences between originals and copies

from _Duke Engineering: Leading Research 2013_

You wouldn’t think that art from the 14th century could be a subject for big
data. But Duke professor of mathematics and of electrical and computer
engineering Ingrid Daubechies has been collecting information about artworks,
trying to understand the differences between originals and copies and how
cracks and other degradations resulting from the aging process are distributed
over the artwork.

In her earlier work, she developed mathematical constructs called wavelets,
which have informed image compression standards now widely used in image
compression as .jpg2000s, and other digital formats. Now, she is working with
the North Carolina Museum of Art and Dutch artist and art historian Charlotte
Caspers to reconstruct a missing panel of an altarpiece by Francescuccio di
Cecco Ghissi, an Italian painter from the 14th century.

The museum has three panels of the series of panels in its collection. Other
panels are on display at the Metropolitan Museum of Art and other museums. But
one panel is missing, so Caspers has researched and created a substitute in
Ghissi’s style so that the full altarpiece can be put on display in 2015.

The math comes in as Caspers and Daubechies prepare the art for display,
“aging” it with very precise placement of cracks and other dating details.
They can study crack patterns and other processes on the older paintings,
“learn” digitally how they affect the piece and then transpose that to the
recreated piece, so the new art closely resembles its historic counterparts.

Daubechies can also use her mathematical tools to combine data from different
imaging technologies and show hidden information. Many artists reuse canvases.
Taking different kinds of images of a Van Gogh painting, Daubechies and her

collaborators uncovered details in a woman’s portrait over which the artist
later painted blooming grasses.

In another study, they analyzed under-drawings, used by many of the best
artists to begin their works. Comparing the style of the under-drawings with
the finished surface of the painting, Daubechies says, can reveal more about
an artist and what he or she was working on before producing a masterpiece, as
she and her collaborators showed recently in their examination of paintings by
16th-century artist Goossen van der Weyden.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

