

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Artemis I Moon Mission: Collaboration with Duke Researchers Sends Manikins
to Measure Radiation

November 17, 2022 | Michaela Kane

Avatars 'Helga' and 'Zohar' will collect valuable data about radiation that
astronauts are exposed to during spaceflight

_Update: Artemis 1 successfully launched at 0647 GMT on Nov. 16, 2022, from
Pad 39B at Kennedy Space Center (KSC) in Florida._

_Originally published Sept. 7, 2022_

When NASA’s Artemis I mission launches later this year, its crew will include
Helga and Zohar, two manikin models designed in collaboration with Duke
University.

These models, called ‘phantoms’, are made of materials that mimic human bones,
soft tissue and organs, and they’ll be fitted with sensors that will measure
radiation exposure as they travel to the moon and back. Paul Segars and Ehsan
Samei, both researchers at the Carl E. Ravin Advanced Imaging Laboratories at
the Duke University School of Medicine, helped develop these phantoms using
methods originally created to study how different medical procedures, tools
and techniques precisely affect organs throughout the human body.

> “What’s important when calculating risk to a patient—or to an astronaut—is
> how much dose is received to individual organs such as the brain, heart,
> liver and kidneys.”
>
> **Ehsan Samei** | Reed and Martha Rice Distinguished Professor of Radiology

“Usually these ‘phantoms’ are virtual, and we use them to create avatars of
patients. The goal of our work is that instead of conducting a clinical trial
on human patients, you can use these avatars and run a simulated clinical
trial through a computer,” explains Samei, the Reed and Martha Rice
Distinguished Professor of Radiology. “With this project, we’ve made these
virtual avatars into physical models to study radiation specifically, and this
is the first time they’ll be sent around the moon.”

People on earth are shielded from cosmic radiation by Earth’s atmosphere, but
when astronauts travel through space, they enjoy no such protection.
Understanding how to mitigate the harmful effects of these cosmic rays is one
of the major hurdles for deep space travel to places like Mars, where
astronauts would be exposed to radiation for up to 36 months.

“What’s important when calculating risk to a patient or to an astronaut is not
how much total radiation dose is received, but how much dose is received to
individual organs such as the brain, heart, liver and kidneys,” said Samei.
“Each organ has a different sensitivity to radiation, and our phantoms are
providing a way for us to understand that risk better.”

For the project, called the Matroshka AstroRad Radiation Experiment, or MARE,
Segars and Samei collaborated with researchers at NASA, the German Aerospace
Center, the Israeli Space Agency and CIRS to develop Helga and Zohar. The Duke
researchers developed a computational algorithm to create a map of the
interior anatomy of the phantoms, which was then used as a guide to precisely
place thousands of radiation sensors.

> Duke experts collaborated with researchers at NASA, the German Aerospace
> Center, the Israeli Space Agency and CIRS

Both the Helga and Zohar phantoms resemble human torsos, and they contain
materials to specifically mimic the adult female anatomy, as female organs
like the uterus and breast tissue are especially sensitive to radiation. When
Artemis I launches, Helga will be wearing normal clothes, while Zohar will be
fitted with a radiation vest, called AstroRad, which was developed by StemRad
and Lockheed Martin.

“The study will provide valuable data on radiation levels astronauts may
encounter on lunar missions and evaluate the effectiveness of the protective
vest that could allow the crew to stay in the storm shelter and continue
working on critical mission activities in spite of a solar storm,” NASA said
in a description of MARE.

Once their phantoms return to Earth, the research team will measure the
radiation collected in the sensors to determine the effectiveness of the
safety vest. They’ll also use the data from Helga to specifically calculate
the level of radiation that astronauts may face during different space
missions, whether it’s a short trip to the moon or an adventure to Mars.

“This is the first time anyone has been able to measure radiation levels
astronauts face,” said Samei. “Artemis I will be carrying precious cargo, and
the information we get from this crew will give us valuable information we
need for the future of safe space exploration.”

## Related News

September 20, 2021 | Duke Research Blog

### Introducing: The Duke Space Initiative

August 12, 2021 | Magnify, Duke School of Medicine

### Staying Healthy in Space

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

