

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Artificial Intelligence Singles Out Neurons Faster Than a Human Can

April 12, 2019

Deep-learning algorithm maps active neurons as accurately as humans in a
fraction of the time

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have developed an automated process
that can trace the shapes of active neurons as accurately as human researchers
can, but in a fraction of the time.

This new technique, based on using artificial intelligence to interpret video
images, addresses a critical roadblock in neuron analysis, allowing
researchers to rapidly gather and process neuronal signals for real-time
behavioral studies.

The research appeared this week in the Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences.

To measure neural activity, researchers typically use a process known as two-
photon calcium imaging, which allows them to record the activity of individual
neurons in the brains of live animals. These recordings enable researchers to
track which neurons are firing, and how they potentially correspond to
different behaviors.

While these measurements are useful for behavioral studies, identifying
individual neurons in the recordings is a painstaking process. Currently, the
most accurate method requires a human analyst to circle every ‘spark’ they see
in the recording, often requiring them to stop and rewind the video until the
targeted neurons are identified and saved. To further complicate the process,
investigators are often interested in identifying only a small subset of
active neurons that overlap in different layers within the thousands of
neurons that are imaged.

This process, called segmentation, is fussy and slow. A researcher can spend
anywhere from four to 24 hours segmenting neurons in a 30-minute video
recording, and that’s assuming they’re fully focused for the duration and
don’t take breaks to sleep, eat or use the bathroom.

In contrast, a new open source automated algorithm developed by image
processing and neuroscience researchers in Duke’s Department of Biomedical
Engineering can accurately identify and segment neurons in minutes.

“As a critical step towards complete mapping of brain activity, we were tasked
with the formidable challenge of developing a fast automated algorithm that is
as accurate as humans for segmenting a variety of active neurons imaged under
different experimental settings,“ said Sina Farsiu, the Paul Ruffin
Scarborough Associate Professor of Engineering in Duke BME.

“The data analysis bottleneck has existed in neuroscience for a long time --
data analysts have spent hours and hours processing minutes of data, but this
algorithm can process a 30-minute video in 20 to 30 minutes,” said Yiyang
Gong, an assistant professor in Duke BME. “We were also able to generalize its
performance, so it can operate equally well if we need to segment neurons from
another layer of the brain with different neuron size or densities.”

“Our deep learning-based algorithm is fast, and is demonstrated to be as
accurate as (if not better than) human experts in segmenting active and
overlapping neurons from two-photon microscopy recordings,” said Somayyeh
Soltanian-Zadeh, a PhD student in Duke BME and first author on the paper.

Deep-learning algorithms allow researchers to quickly process large amounts of
data by sending it through multiple layers of nonlinear processing units,
which can be trained to identify different parts of a complex image. In their
framework, this team created an algorithm that could process both spatial and
timing information in the input videos. They then ‘trained’ the algorithm to
mimic the segmentation of a human analyst while improving the accuracy.

The advance is a critical step towards allowing neuroscientists to track
neural activity in real time. Because of their tool’s widespread usefulness,
the team has made their software and annotated dataset available online.

Gong is already using the new method to more closely study the neural activity
associated with different behaviors in mice. By better understanding which
neurons fire for different activities, Gong hopes to learn how researchers can
manipulate brain activity to modify behavior.

“This improved performance in active neuron detection should provide more
information about the neural network and behavioral states, and open the door
for accelerated progress in neuroscience experiments,” said Soltanian-Zadeh.

This work was supported by the National Institutes of Health Medical Imaging
Training Program pre-doctoral fellowship (T32-EB001040 and P30-EY005722) and
the National Science Foundation BRAIN Initiative (NCS-FO 1533598).Yiyang Gong
is supported by the Beckman Young Investigator Award, and Sina Farsiu is
supported by a Google Faculty Research Award.

CITATION: “Fast and Robust Active Neuron Segmentation in Two-Photon Calcium
Imaging Using Spatio-Temporal Deep-Learning,” Somayyeh Soltanian-Zadeh, Kaan
Sahingur, Sarah Blau, Yiyang Gong, and Sina Farsiu. Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences, April 12, 2019. DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1812995116

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

