

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# ASIC Draws First Industry Partners

October 9, 2018

Duke’s Alternative Sustainable & Intelligent Computing consortium gives
industry partners early access to pioneering research

Electrical and Computer Engineering associate professor Yiran Chen will drive
a new Industry University Co-operative Research Center (IUCRC) headquartered
at Duke, with partner sites at Notre Dame and Syracuse Universities. The new
center, named the Alternative Sustainable & Intelligent Computing (ASIC)
consortium, will focus on emerging computing platforms for cognitive
applications.

ASIC’s operational costs will be covered by $150,000 in yearly funding from
the National Science Foundation, but the center is capable of drawing
additional private industry investments; ASIC investors have the opportunity
to leverage the consortium’s groundbreaking research in novel circuits,
architecture, and computational models at a pre-competitive stage, with the
potential for earning significant returns on their investments.

The combined expertise of ASIC’s three investigators—Duke ECE associate
professor Hai “Helen” Li and associate professor Benjamin Lee are co-leads—has
already proven attractive enough for three industry partners to make initial
investments of $50,000 each.

Chen and Li lead the Duke Center for Evolutionary Intelligence (CEI), a
research group that designs computer architecture and circuits that mimic the
human brain in the way they convey information. Neuromorphic, or “cognitive,”
computing employs compact architecture that allows tasks to be accomplished
much more quickly, using less energy. While other cognitive computing
researchers around the world focus on software alone, CEI occupies a tiny,
influential niche in which its software development experience is matched by
expertise in hardware and deployment.

Lee’s lab focuses on understanding the nature of cognitive computing workloads
and how different business entities compete for resources within shared
systems. For example, within a large company that aggregates and processes
data for both search and mail applications, the two business units might be
tempted to each purchase its own computing cluster to guarantee performance
when they need it. Lee’s work has shown that they would spend less money and
use less power if they pooled their processors, memory, and network resources.

As a team, the three Duke researchers, together with fellow ECE faculty
members Robert Calderbank, Krishnendu Chakrabarty, Xin Li and Miroslav Pajic,
can create computing systems that are markedly stronger in architecture and
performance than those found in the mainstream.

The other two sites, Notre Dame and Syracuse, will focus on the applications
of cognitive computing platforms in medical and military sectors,
respectively.

“The knowledge and expertise developed via ASIC will effectively enable a boom
in cognitive applications,” said Chen.

More News from ECE

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

