

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Asiedu Named 2019 Schmidt Science Fellow

April 10, 2019

Duke BME PhD student and Global Health Doctoral Fellow Mercy Asiedu selected
as part of the 2019 cohort of Schmidt Science Post-Doctoral Fellows

Mercy Asiedu was selected to join the 2019 class of the Schmidt Science
Fellows, an initiative in partnership with the Rhodes Trust that focuses on
scientific leadership and interdisciplinary research to provide the next
generation of leaders and innovators with the tools and opportunities to
tackle the world’s most significant problems and maximize scientific
opportunities for society. The program will support Fellows with a $100,000
personal stipend, mentorship and community events as they embark upon a year-
long post-doctoral fellowship.

Now entering its second year, the Schmidt Science Fellows Program places
recent doctoral graduates at world-leading laboratories to conduct post-
doctoral research focusing on topics in the natural sciences, engineering,
mathematics or computing that is different from the individual's existing area
of expertise and is a planned area of future focus.

As a PhD student in Nimmi Ramanujam’s lab in Duke University’s Department of
Biomedical Engineering, Asiedu focused on developing technologies to address
disparities in cervical cancer mortality. She invented the Callascope, a
novel, patient-centered, low-cost, imaging device for self-cervical cancer
screening. This technology shifts the screening paradigm from resource
intensive clinical screenings to self-based exams with the potential to
drastically increase accessibility. Asiedu also developed machine-learning
algorithms for automated risk assessment of cervical screening images, which
provide improved diagnostic accuracy over expert physician interpretation.
Long-term, this technology has the potential to enable wide-spread cervical
cancer screening at the primary care level, particularly in resource limited
settings where cervical cancer mortality is highest.

For her postdoctoral research work, Asiedu is looking to pivot her research to
developing and applying machine learning algorithms to clinical ultrasound
imaging and electronic health record databases for computer-assisted risk
assessment of malignant lesions.

“Applying machine learning methods to ultrasound has the potential to improve
the quality of ultrasound imaging for better lesion detection and increased
accuracy in interpreting images, predicting cancer regression or recurrence,
which can lead to better outcomes and increased survival,” says Asiedu.
“Applications to low-cost, portable ultrasound systems would make cancer
screening and diagnosis accessible globally.”

“Growing up in Ghana I experienced first-hand the negative effects of limited
access to health technologies on people’s lives, so I am very interested in
bridging disparities in health care using interdisciplinary technical,
clinical and collaborative skills,” she says. “I am very excited to have been
given the opportunity. I look forward to conducting research in this area over
the coming year and taking advantage of the amazing mentorship and activities
provided by the Schmidt Science Fellowship Program. I’m so grateful for all
the support I have received from my PhD advisor, Nimmi Ramanujam, my
professors, family and friends in getting to this stage.”

“Mercy is a wonderful example of a student with extraordinary creativity,
technical prowess and a lot of grit,” says Ramanujam. “She is poised to a
leader in the field of global women’s health!”

Asiedu is Duke’s first Schmidt Science Fellow, and is among 20 recipients who
include scholars from Cambridge, Oxford, Harvard, Princeton and University of
British Columbia. In addition to the post-doctoral placement, the program will
also feature five weeks of high-level courses and experiential workshops that
will explore a diverse range of scientific advances, conversations with some
of the world's pre-eminent scientists, policymakers and private industry
leaders for immersive leadership experiences that will help them build support
for their future work. These courses will be hosted by several of the world's
leading universities that have partnered with the Schmidt Science Fellows
program, beginning at the University of Oxford, United Kingdom in July 2019.

To learn more, visit: https://schmidtsciencefellows.org

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

