

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Mobile App for Autism Screening Yields Useful Data

June 4, 2018 | by Karl Leif Bates

Pilot study finds app easy to use, liked by parents

_FromDuke Today  
_

A Duke study of an iPhone app to screen young children for signs of autism has
found that the app is easy to use, welcomed by caregivers and good at
producing reliable scientific data.

The study, described June 1 in an open access journal npj Digital Medicine,
points the way to broader, easier access to screening for autism and other
neurodevelopmental disorders.

The app first administers caregiver consent forms and survey questions and
then uses the phone's 'selfie' camera to collect videos of young children's
reactions while they watch movies designed to elicit autism risk behaviors,
such as patterns of emotion and attention, on the device's screen.

The videos of the child's reactions are sent to the study's servers, where
automatic behavioral coding software tracks the movement of video landmarks on
the child's face and quantifies the child's emotions and attention. For
example, in response to a short movie of bubbles floating across the screen,
the video coding algorithm looks for movements of the face that would indicate
joy.

In this study, children whose parents rated their child as having a high
number of autism symptoms showed less frequent expressions of joy in response
to the bubbles.

Autism screening in young children is presently done in clinical settings,
rather than the child's natural environment, and highly trained people are
needed to both administer the test and analyze the results. "That's not
scalable," said New York University's Helen Egger, M.D., one of the co-leaders
of the study.

> "This technology has the potential to transform how we screen and monitor
> children's development."

This study, from informed consent to data collection and preliminary analysis,
was conducted with an app available for free from Apple Store and based on
Apple's ResearchKit open source development platform. (Video -
apple.com/researchkit)

In one year, there were more than 10,000 downloads of the app, and 1,756
families with children aged one to six years participated in the study.
Parents completed 5,618 surveys and uploaded 4,441 videos. Usable data were
collected on 88 percent of the uploaded videos, demonstrating for the first
time the feasibility of this type of tool for observing and coding behavior in
natural environments.

"This demonstrates the feasibility of this approach," said Geraldine Dawson,
Ph.D., Director of the Duke Center for Autism and Brain Development and co-
leader of the study. "Many caregivers were willing to participate, the data
were high quality and the video analysis algorithms produced results
consistent with the scoring we produce in our autism program here at Duke."

An app-based approach can reach into underserved areas better and make it much
easier to track an individual child's changes over time, said Guillermo
Sapiro, Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School Professor of Electrical and Computer
Engineering at Duke and a co-leader of the study.

"This technology has the potential to transform how we screen and monitor
children's development," Sapiro said.

The reported project was a 12-month study. The entire test took about 20
minutes to complete, with only a few minutes involving the child.

The app also included a widely used questionnaire that screens for autism.
Based on the questionnaire, participating families received some feedback from
the app about what the child's apparent risk for autism might be. If parents
reported a high level of autism symptoms on the questionnaire, they were
encouraged to seek further consultation with their health care providers.

Co-Principal Investigators of the study included Helen Egger, now at New York
University and adjunct member of the Duke faculty; Geraldine Dawson and
Guillermo Sapiro of Duke; and Ricky Bloomfield, now at Apple, Inc. The team
included Kimberly Carpenter, Jordan Hashemi, Steven Espinosa, high-school
students, undergraduate students, graduate students, post-docs and software
developers.

Creation of the app and the research project were supported by the Duke
Institute for Health Information, the Information Initiative at Duke, the Duke
Endowment, the Coulter Foundation, the Psychiatry Research Incentive and
Development Grant Program, the Duke Education and Human Development Incubator,
the Duke University School of Medicine Primary Care Leadership Track, Bass
Connections, Duke Office of the Vice Provost for Research, National Science
Foundation, Department of Defense and the Office of the Assistant Secretary of
Defense for Research and Engineering and NIH.

Grant funding includes NSF-CCF-13-18168, NGA HM0177-13-1-0007 and
HM04761610001, NICHD 1P50HD093074-01, ONR N000141210839, and ARO
W911NF-16-1-0088.

CITATION: "Automatic Emotion and Attention Analysis of Young Children at Home:
A ResearchKit Autism Feasibility Study," Helen L. Egger, Geraldine Dawson,
Jordan Hashemi, Kimberly L. H. Carpenter, Steven Espinosa, Kathleen Campbell,
Samuel Brotkin, Jana Shaich-Borg, Qiang Qiu, Mariano Tepper, Jeffrey P. Baker,
Ricky Bloomfield and Guillermo Sapiro. npj Digital Medicine, June 1, 2018.
DOI: 10.1038/s41746-018-0024-6  
https://www.nature.com/articles/s41746-018-0024-6.epdf?author_access_tok...

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

