

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Autism App Team Wins Cultural Diversity Award

June 15, 2017

International Society for Autism Research recognizes app designed to help
expand autism screenings to young children in low-resource areas

The International Society for Autism Research (INSAR) presented the Cultural
Diversity Award to a team from Duke University and University of Cape Town at
their annual meeting in May 2017. The award was in recognition for a paper
outlining how a mobile device app developed by the Duke team might help
identify young children at risk for Autism Spectrum Disorder in low-income
community settings in South Africa.

Dubbed “Autism and Beyond,” the app has been developed for the past several
years using the Apple ResearchKit. As a toddler watches videos, sophisticated
algorithms analyze “selfie”-camera recordings of head movements and facial
expressions for small but significant signs of autistic behavior, such as a
lack of emotions, social-reference or delayed response. The app is being
studied as a possible tool to expand autism screening and enable earlier
diagnosis and intervention. It’s a critical need given that most children with
autism aren’t diagnosed until age five or later.

The INSAR Cultural Diversity Committee was created to provide a forum for
professional development, information sharing, and collaborative activities
among researchers and clinicians interested in
racial/ethnic/cultural/socioeconomic diversity in autism.

Paper citation: A. J. Kumm, K. Campbell, S. Marsan, J. Hashemi, S. Espinosa,
R. Bloomfield, G. Dawson, G. Sapiro, H. Egger, and P. J. de Vries.
``Feasibility of a smartphone application to identify young children at risk
for Autism Spectrum Disorder in a low-income community setting in South
Africa.''

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

