

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# In Baseball, Bigger Still Better

August 23, 2013 | by Richard Merritt

Adrian Bejan's theory, which he terms the constructal law, predicts that among
other phenomena, elite pitchers will continue to be taller and thus throw
faster

Baseball pitchers usually throw the ball faster and harder than the other
eight players on the field. They also tend to be the tallest.

This is no surprise to Duke University engineer Adrian Bejan, who has
developed a theory, which he terms the constructal law. The theory predicts
that among other phenomena, elite pitchers will continue to be taller and thus
throw faster. The constructal law simply states that “flows” follow the path
of least resistance to improve the efficiency of the flow, like tributaries in
a river delta.

Since most sports are meticulous in keeping statistics, studying athletes can
provide unique insights into the evolution of social organization, Bejan said.
For example, he has already used the theory to help explain why the most
successful runners and swimmers have continued to get bigger and taller over
the past century.

Now he’s applying his theory to other sports, including baseball. While many
sports may seem different, Bejan argues that one characteristic unites many of
them -- the “falling forward” motion involved, whether it be a pitcher’s arm
or golfer’s swing or boxer’s punch. Basically, the larger and taller athletes
are, the more force they can bring to bear as their mass falls forward.

“Our analysis shows that the constructal-law theory of sports evolution
predicts that the speed records of swimmers and runners will continue to be
broken by taller and larger athletes,” he said. “The constructal law predicted
correctly, with the same formula, the evolutionary direction of both of these
speed sports, but also sports where speed is needed for throwing a mass, ball
or fist.

“Different sports such as baseball, golf, hockey and boxing illustrate how the
constructal theory of sports evolution can help predict success in
competition,” Bejan said.

The falling forward idea states that the larger and taller an individual, the
more force can be applied as the ball is hurled forward. Bejan’s students
studied the average heights of all nine positions in major league baseball
since 1960 and found that pitchers check in as the tallest at an average of
six feet, 2.2 inches tall.

“The average height of the pitchers active at least one season has increased
almost at a constant rate during the past century from five foot, nine inches
to current levels,” Bejan said. “Shortstops and second basemen, who have the
shortest throws to first base, tend to be the shortest players on the field.”

While Bejan spent the bulk of his analysis on baseball, he also looked at the
similar sports of golf and hockey, where a stick strikes a ball or puck.

In golf, taller competitors have been driving the ball further than shorter
golfers, even with advances in ball makeup and club design factored in. In
2010, Bejan found, the average golfer in the top 10 of driving distance was on
average 2.5 inches taller than the average golfer in the bottom 10 of driving
distance.

“This suggests that height plays a definite role in the success of an athlete
in golf,” Bejan said. “The increase in driving distance with body mass is due
to the fact that larger moving bodies are capable of exerting greater forces.

The same reasoning also applies to sports equipment, such as golf clubs and
hockey sticks. For example, Bejan said, the increased size of club heads has
contributed to a 30-yard increase in average driving distance on the
Professional Golfers Association (PGA) tour during the past 30 years.

The work of Bejan’s group was performed as part of the undergraduate course
“Constructal Theory and Design,” developed at Duke with the support of the
National Science Foundation. The results of Bejan’s analyses were published in
July 2013 in the _International Journal of Design & Nature and Ecodynamics._

Other members of the team were Sylvie Lorente, an adjunct professor of
mechanical and material science at Duke, and undergraduate students James
Royce, Dave Faurie, Tripp Parran, Michael Black and Brian Ash.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

