

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Bejan Wins 2017 Ralph Coats Roe Medal

September 20, 2017

Award recognizes contributions toward a better public appreciation of
engineering’s worth to contemporary society

Adrian Bejan, the J.A. Jones Professor of Mechanical Engineering at Duke
University, has been named the recipient of the 2017 Ralph Coats Roe Medal by
the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.

The award recognizes an outstanding contribution toward a better public
understanding and appreciation of the engineer’s worth to contemporary
society. Bejan was cited for “permanent contributions to the public
appreciation of the pivotal role of engineering in an advanced society through
outstanding accomplishments as an engineering scientist and educator, renowned
communicator and prolific writer.”

“Engineering is essential for the creation of an advanced society,” said
Bejan. “Without engineering, civilization doesn’t exist. Becoming an advocate
of this truth to the general public—and my own peers—was never something I
planned to do. It just happened.”

Bejan credits two of his books written for a general audience as the genesis
of his receiving the award—“Design in Nature,” published in 2012, and “The
Physics of Life,” published in 2016. In both publications, Bejan explains how
the constructal law of physics, which he penned in 1996, underpins the natural
organization and evolution of everything in nature from rivers to society,
providing a single unifying law that accounts for the architecture of all flow
systems.

He also explains why engineering and technology are pivotal pieces of our
modern society.

“Technology is the great liberator,” he wrote in the latter of his books. “As
Professor Peter Vadasz wrote, ‘Any society has as much freedom as the
available technology can provide and support.’”

Bejan has also written on the subject of the role of engineers in modern
science and how they are often unfairly viewed.

“Few things bother me more than when I hear my peers speak of ‘engineers and
scientists,’” said Bejan. “Are we really two kinds of animals, like cats and
dogs? I once heard an explanation of engineers as being those who make things
based on the discoveries given to them by scientists. I had no idea that
engineers were that inferior, but unfortunately, this is the common
impression, and we are guilty of propagating it. I want to change that.”

Bejan will receive the Ralph Coats Roe Medal at the Honors Assembly gala
during the International Mechanical Engineering Congress & Exposition in
Tampa, Florida on November 5, 2017.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

