

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Bellamkonda, Truskey Named IAMBE Fellows

May 13, 2019

Distinction recognizes outstanding contributions to the profession of medical
and biological engineering

Ravi Bellamkonda and George Truskey, respectively, Vinik Dean and Senior
Associate Dean of the Pratt School of Engineering at Duke University, have
been named fellows of the International Academy of Medical and Biological
Engineering (IAMBE).

IAMBE is made up of fellows who are recognized for their outstanding
contributions to the profession of medical and biological engineering.
Nominated and elected by all active fellows of the academy, the 2019 class
features 24 distinguished new members.

Bellamkonda, also a professor of biomedical engineering, conducts research
that explores the interplay of biomaterials and the nervous system for neural
interfaces, nerve repair and brain tumor therapy. One of his inventions, a
biomedical tool that tricks aggressive brain tumors such as glioblastoma into
migrating into an external container rather than throughout the brain, was
recently designated a “Breakthrough Device” by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration. In another research project, Bellamkonda is genetically
rewiring salmonella to seek out glioblastomas and push them into self-
destructing.

Truskey, the R. Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Professor of Biomedical
Engineering, focuses his research efforts on the effect of physical forces on
the function of vascular cells and skeletal muscle, cell adhesion, and the
design of engineered tissues. Some of his recent work includes creating a
vascular model using human cells of the rare aging disease progeria
(https://pratt.duke.edu/about/news/progeria-blood-vessels ) and engineering
tissue chips that model atherosclerosis and muscle dysfunction in rheumatoid
arthritis to examine how simulated exercise can reduce the impact of
inflammation.

The new class of IAMBE Fellows will be inducted during a special session, in
conjunction with the Carnegie Mellon Forum on Biomedical Engineering to be
held on September 20, 2019 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

