

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Bellamkonda Named Provost at Emory; Glass to Serve as Interim Dean

February 16, 2021

Dean Ravi Bellamkonda will depart Duke in June to become Emory University’s
next provost; Jeff Glass, ECE professor and senior associate dean, has been
named interim dean effective July 1

Ravi Bellamkonda, the Vinik Dean of the Pratt School of Engineering since
2016, will depart Duke in June 2021 to serve as the provost and executive vice
president of Emory University in Atlanta.

"Ravi has been an energetic dean who has had a tremendous positive impact on
the school," said Provost Sally Kornbluth. "His foresight and energy in
driving the creation of the design curriculum, the construction of the new
engineering building, the recruitment and retention of excellent faculty and
students, the enhancement of diversity, inclusion and equity efforts
throughout the school, and increased engagement of Pratt alumni and parents
will have a lasting impact. He has also been a wonderful colleague and
university citizen."

Prior to joining Duke, Bellamkonda was a member of the faculties of Emory and
Georgia Tech beginning in 2003, serving as chair of their joint Department of
Biomedical Engineering from 2013 to 2016.

Under his leadership at Duke, the Pratt School has created a foundational new
First-Year Design course focused on authentic, team-based problem-solving,
along with new programs in engineering entrepreneurship and ethics, purpose
and meaning. New research awards increased by 30 percent, to a record $97
million in 2019-2020. Bellamkonda also oversaw the design and construction of
the new Wilkinson Building, a $115 million, 150,000-square-foot facility for
engineering education, research and entrepreneurship, which opened for classes
earlier this year.

"It has been a joy and an honor to work alongside this incredibly talented
community as dean for the past five years," Bellamkonda said. "Duke
Engineering has a shared culture of success, of rising higher, of 'outrageous
ambition' that will persist on the foundation we’ve collectively laid. Duke
Engineering owes its present strength to everyone who has contributed to that
vision over the years, and its future is particularly bright thanks to our
incredible faculty, staff, students, parents and alumni."

Kornbluth has appointed Jeff Glass, professor of electrical & computer
engineering and Pratt’s senior associate dean for education and learning
innovation, to serve as interim dean effective July 1. A national search for a
new dean will begin within the next few weeks, and a search committee will
soon be named.

"Jeff is extremely well-versed in the workings of the school, having been an
outstanding professor and administrator at Pratt since 2003," added Kornbluth.
"I know that he will provide strong and steady leadership as we search for
Ravi's successor."

Glass is also faculty director of Duke's Master of Engineering Management
Program. He came to Duke from Case Western Reserve University, where he was a
professor and co-director of the Institute for the Integration of Management
and Engineering. Glass is a graduate of Johns Hopkins University, where he
also received a master's degree, and earned a PhD in materials science and
engineering from the University of Virginia and an MBA from the Fuqua School
of Business at Duke.

## Related News

August 26, 2019

### An Immigrant's Story: How 3 Decades in the U.S. Shaped Ravi Bellamkonda

May 13, 2019

### Bellamkonda, Truskey Named IAMBE Fellows

May 12, 2019

### "Make the World More Colorful": Dean Bellamkonda Addresses the Class of
2019

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

