

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Bellamkonda Reappointed Dean of Duke Engineering

April 24, 2020

First term saw a reimagining of the undergraduate experience and record growth
in faculty, students, research expenditures, philanthropy and rankings

_From Duke Today_

Ravi Bellamkonda has been reappointed for a second five-year term as the Vinik
Dean of the Pratt School of Engineering following a standard review process,
Provost Sally Kornbluth announced this week.

Bellamkonda was first appointed dean of Duke Engineering in August 2016, after
leading the Department of Biomedical Engineering at Georgia Institute of
Technology and Emory University as well as the American Institute for Medical
and Biological Engineering. He has been recognized as a distinguished scholar
in in bioengineering and neurosciences and a leader in innovation,
entrepreneurship and pedagogy. As dean, Bellamkonda has reimagined the
undergraduate engineering curriculum at Duke while furthering the school’s
growth and rise in national reputation.

“Ravi has shown incredible leadership of the Pratt School, recruiting and
retaining outstanding faculty, introducing curricular innovations, and
strategically growing the research profile,” Kornbluth said. “He is a
wonderful colleague, committed to advancing the broader goals and values of
the university. I look forward to continued successes throughout his next term
as dean of the Pratt School.”

Over the past four years, Bellamkonda has reshaped the undergraduate
curriculum by helping implement an innovative First-Year Design course, new
data and decision sciences course, and new initiatives that integrate a focus
on ethics, purpose and meaning into the curriculum through the Lane Family
Program and Thrive pilot program for first-year students.

He also has built on the school’s existing research strengths in health,
computing/intelligent systems, environmental and materials engineering by
recruiting faculty with joint appointments that build collaborations across
campus. Bellamkonda also has focused on equity and inclusion, increasing the
number of tenure-track women faculty in Duke Engineering by 77 percent since
2016.

The faculty review committee, chaired by civil and environmental engineering
professor Henri Gavin, noted Bellamkonda’s first-term successes with first-
year engineering design, recruitment and advancement of senior faculty, and
the coordinated creation of new spaces for research and hands-on experiences
across all levels of the school.

"The identification and successful recruitment of Dean Bellamkonda underscores
the ambition and support that the university leadership has for our school, an
ambition that is at least equally matched in Dean Bellamkonda,” Gavin said.
“He has a great capacity for collaborative administration and strategic
planning. His leadership is informed by a high regard for members of our
academic community as scholars and as individuals. Our ongoing challenges of
remotely delivering quality education while developing engineered solutions to
support COVID-19 responses are especially well met by his people-first values
and leadership."

“I am deeply grateful to have the opportunity to work with amazing faculty,
staff, students, parents and alumni and a leadership team at Duke Engineering
that is dedicated, collaborative and creative,” Bellamkonda said. “Provost
Kornbluth has been unwavering in her support of our effort to reimagine the
undergraduate experience and in helping us retain and hire great faculty.
Thanks to the efforts of all of my outstanding colleagues, I have been
fortunate to be at Duke Engineering through its exciting climb to excellence,
and I look forward to the honor of serving Duke Engineering to the best of my
ability during my next term.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

