

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Bill Walker: A Mentor for New Entrepreneurs

April 1, 2018

Bill Walker uses his own expertise to guide student and faculty-led startups

When biomedical engineer Bill Walker launched his first company, it didn’t go
well.

“I tried to start a company around my research as a graduate student at Duke,
and I really struggled to find a mentor who could show me the ropes,” says
Walker. “I learned a lot, but it was through trial and error, and I ultimately
decided that my idea didn’t really make commercial sense.” While his initial
experience with entrepreneurship was challenging, Walker also recognizes that
it provided him with a valuable learning experience—one that makes it easier
to advise students in his role as the Pratt School of Engineering's first
Mattson Family Director of Engineering Entrepreneurial Ventures.

In his position, made possible by a gift from Pratt Board of Visitors member
George Mattson E’87 and Holly Mattson, Walker works with faculty, staff and
students to foster and develop entrepreneurial ideas, guiding them from the
lab bench into startups.

“One of the great things about Duke BME is that we are just a short walk away
from a great clinical world, and that gives students and faculty a unique
opportunity to see what clinicians are doing and really understand what
challenges they can address and how they can make life better for doctors and
patients,” says Walker. “My job is to help people at Duke make an impact.”

Walker is an accomplished researcher with more than 15 years of experience in
the entrepreneurial world. Since earning both his undergraduate degree and PhD
in biomedical engineering from Duke, he went on to work at the University of
Virginia (UVA) for 16 years, where he founded PocketSonics, a successful
ultrasound imaging company. He also spun HemoSonics out of his UVA lab.
HemoSonics is now marketing the Quantra™ in vitro diagnostic system to aid in
the diagnosis of critical bleeding.

“As engineers, we often get really excited by technology and assume that the
greatest tech will win the day. But that’s not what happens in many cases,” he
says. “It’s more important that you know what your customers’ most urgent
needs are and can build a product that solves those needs. You can never do
that by just reading papers or getting outside opinions. I always encourage
those I work with to meet with people face-to-face to discover the true needs
of the market.”

In the 18 months since Walker began as Pratt’s entrepreneurship director, he
has worked with faculty and students in departments across Duke Engineering,
supporting projects like Zephyr Mobility, a company founded by BME
undergraduate Samuel Fox, and Realtime Robotics, founded by electrical and
computer engineering professor Daniel Sorin. Beyond acting as a mentor for new
entrepreneurs, Walker has rolled up his sleeves to help them raise capital,
develop a patent strategy, understand technology and industrial practices, and
pursue corporate leadership.

In addition to working with specific startups, Walker has worked with Donna
Crenshaw to create a series of Saturday Entrepreneur’s Workshops to provide
in-depth exploration of topics relating to entrepreneurship. Courses include
market assessment, patent law, intellectual property, and fundraising. “My
goal is to make Duke more of an entrepreneurial institution,” says Walker. “I
want to make it easier to get our great ideas and research discoveries out to
the world.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

