

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Biomedical Engineering Grad Student Receives Wrenn Fellowship

May 28, 2019

Will Huffman received the Wrenn Graduate Fellowship, allowing him to conduct
research surrounding the diagnosis and treatment of Alzheimer's disease

The Duke Institute for Brain Sciences is pleased to announce that Will
Huffman, a graduate student in the biomedical engineering department in the
Pratt School of Engineering, has received the Wrenn Graduate Fellowship in
Alzheimer’s Disease. Huffman is a student in the laboratory of Warren Grill,
professor of biomedical engineering. His research project will involve a
collaboration between the Grill lab and the lab of Niccolò Terrando, associate
professor of anesthesiology, in the Duke University School of Medicine.

The award will allow Huffman to perform research in the area of Alzheimer’s
disease diagnosis, treatment, and pathophysiology for three years while
pursuing his doctoral degree. “Will is a creative and accomplished biomedical
engineer who will thrive in an interdisciplinary career advancing research in
Alzheimer’s Disease,” said Grill.

As a Wrenn Fellow, Huffman plans to develop strategies to prevent cognitive
decline following surgery, a condition for which Alzheimer's patients are
particularly at risk, and which can accelerate the progression of the disease.
The strategy will involve stimulating the vagus nerve and thereby reducing
inflammation in the brain. A strength of this approach is that it is non-
invasive and ultrasound-based.

The Wrenn Fellowship, awarded every three years in the amount of $40,000, is
made possible through the generosity of the Wrenn Trust, named for Duke alumna
Karen L. Wrenn, who died of Alzheimer’s Disease. This is the second three-year
Wrenn Fellowship awarded; the inaugural Wrenn Fellowship was awarded to Yixin
Ma, PhD, in 2017. Ma is a postdoctoral associate in Duke’s Medical Physics
Graduate Program.

Will received his bachelor’s degree in biomedical engineering from the
University of Tennessee, Knoxville, and his master’s degree in biomedical
engineering from Duke in 2016.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

