

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Blake Wilson Receives Top North Carolina Award

November 19, 2021 | Michaela Kane

Wilson receives the state’s highest civilian honor in recognition of his
pioneering role in developing cochlear implants

Blake S. Wilson, a Duke Engineering alumnus and faculty member who is one of
the lead inventors of the cochlear implant, received the North Carolina Award
November 18 in recognition for his significant scientific contributions to the
state.

Created in 1961 by the North Carolina General Assembly, the prestigious award
recognizes significant contributions to the state and nation in the fields of
fine arts, literature, public service and science. The North Carolina award is
the state’s highest civilian honor, and Wilson was one of just nine
individuals to receive the combined awards for 2020 and 2021.

More than 36 million adults in the United States report issues with their
hearing, with issues ranging from tinnitus to complete deafness. Cochlear
implants enable people to regain some, if not most, of their hearing by
translating sounds into electrical signals that the brain can interpret and
send directly to the auditory nerve. This new pathway bypasses damaged cilia
cells in the inner ear that contribute to hearing loss. Today, most users of
cochlear implants use the telephone or their cell phones routinely, even for
conversations with previously unfamiliar persons and even for conversations
with unpredictable and changing topics.

Wilson invented of many of the sound-processing strategies used in modern
cochlear implants––most significantly the “continuous interleaved sampling”
system. This technique made it easier for cochlear implant recipients to
better understand words and sentences, making the implants significantly more
effective than previous iterations. To date, Wilson’s research has helped
restore hearing for more than one million people worldwide.

Wilson was elected to the National Academy of Engineering (NAE) in 2017 in
recognition for his work, and he and his colleagues also received the 2015 NAE
Fritz J. and Dolores H. Russ Prize, which is considered the top prize in the
world for bioengineering. He also received the prestigious Lasker Award in
2013, which is given to researchers who have made significant contributions to
medical science and is second only to the Nobel Prize in Physiology or
Medicine for recognizing advances in those fields.

With both bachelor’s and doctoral degrees from Duke Engineering, Wilson is
currently the director of the Duke Hearing Center, and he also serves as an
adjunct or consulting professor in biomedical engineering, electrical and
computer engineering and head and neck surgery & communication sciences at
Duke.

“Through their extraordinary accomplishments, these individuals have enriched
North Carolina and our nation,” Reid Wilson, secretary of the N.C. Department
of Natural and Cultural Resources, said in a press release. “Each of them has
enhanced the lives of North Carolinians through their lasting achievements in
the arts, sciences and public service.”

Governor Roy Cooper presented Wilson and the other distinguished North
Carolinians with their awards on Thursday, November 18, 2021, at the North
Carolina Museum of Art.

Video credit: _NC Department of Natural and Cultural Resources_

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

