

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Blue Devil of the Week: Harnessing the Power of Technology

June 25, 2018

Chair of Electrical and Computer Engineering Krishnendu Chakrabarty blends
computing and creativity

**Name:** Krishnendu Chakrabarty

**Title:** William H. Younger Professor of Engineering in the Pratt School of
Engineering, Chair of the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

**Years at Duke:** 20

**What he does:** When Chakrabarty started his career in computer science and
engineering, the goal was to make computers smaller, more reliable, faster and
more efficient. Now, with computer technology evolving at a rapid pace,
Chakrabarty’s work tries to find new ways to harness it.

Chakrabarty’s most well-known area of research uses the increased capacity and
connectivity of the smallest computers to create and refine tiny self-
contained, automated networks of sensors and processors capable of completing
a wide array of computational tasks.

In his role as a mentor to graduate students in Duke’s Electrical and Computer
Engineering Department, Chakrabarty preaches the importance of seeking out
problems that the creative use of these powerful, microcomputers can solve.

“It’s still in the very early days,” Chakrabarty said of this kind of
technology. “The landscape is very open, we have barely scratched the
surface.”

His work earned him the Humboldt Research Award in 2013, a Hans Fischer Senior
Research Fellowship from the Technical University of Munich in 2016, the
Charles A. Desoer Technical Achievement Award from the IEEE Circuits and
Systems Society in 2017 and a fellowship from the Japan Society for the
Promotion of Science earlier this year.

**What he loves about Duke:** Chakrabarty said that he likely wouldn’t have
had such an unfettered opportunity to explore the potential of computing
anywhere other than Duke.

> "When new faculty comes here, you’re not told what to do, you’re told to be
> the best at it.”

“I built my career here, so Duke has shaped me,” Chakrabarty said. “I couldn’t
have done what I’ve done if I was not at Duke. I had the intellectual freedom
to explore things and be creative. When new faculty comes here, you’re not
told what to do, you’re told to be the best at it.”

**Special objects in his workspace:** Next to his desk, Chakrabarty has a
table with an espresso machine and a kettle and tea set. He said that about
three or four times per day, he’ll have a cup of tea – he collects different
kinds of tea during his travels – or a small, strong espresso.

“Sometimes I picture Duke as a machine that turns coffee into theorems,”
Chakrabarty joked. “Coffee in, interesting ideas out.”

> “Sometimes I picture Duke as a machine that turns coffee into theorems,”
> Chakrabarty joked. “Coffee in, interesting ideas out.”

**First ever job:** As an undergraduate at one of the campuses of the Indian
Institutes of Technology, the top institutions of higher education in his home
country of India, Chakrabarty was a computer programmer, writing code for
computers the size of washing machines.

“We had an old Russian mainframe,” Chakrabarty said. “It was kept in an air-
conditioned room and you had to take your shoes off before you went in so you
could program in front of terminals. Some user manuals were in Russian. We
never learned to read Russian. We learned stuff on our own. We bypassed all
that stuff.”

**Best advice he's heard:** Chakrabarty said he’s had plenty of mentors over
his career. He now occupies that role for many younger people in the computer
engineering field. One bit of advice he passes along, which was told to him,
is to chart your own path while not worrying about trying to keep up with
others.

“I don’t do my work to compete, this is a mistake many people make,”
Chakrabarty said. “It’s not a competition. If you think about it as a rat
race, even if you win, you’re still a rat. I don’t want to be in a rat race, I
want to set my own pace and, in the end, look at the impact of my work, not
just what has come out.

“If you think about your career as a professor, it’s not a sprint, it’s a
marathon. It’s not a 100-meter dash and you’re done. It’s over 30 or 40 years.
Sometimes you have to sprint, sometimes you have to slow down, look around and
maybe change direction.”

Something most people don’t know about him: While Chakrabarty spends a lot of
time guiding students or working in a lab testing the limits of computer
technology, he’s just as likely to be found in Europe with his wife and kids
or around a raucous dinner table with friends.

“Most people think I work all the time and that I’m really serious,”
Chakrabarty said. “I’m obviously focused on my job, but I also like to enjoy
life.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

