

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Removing Blurred Lines Caused by Shaky Hands

June 5, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

Duke University algorithm recently integrated into Adobe After Effects makes
blurred images caused by shaky footage a thing of the past

Duke University computer engineers have designed algorithms capable of
sharpening video blurred by a shaky camera. Newly integrated into Adobe’s
After Effects video editing software, the solution is bringing relief to
tripod-less videographers everywhere.

“When I came to Duke, I wanted to try to find a different solution to a
classic problem,” said Mauricio Delbracio, the former Duke postdoc who worked
on the project with Guillermo Sapiro, the Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School
Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Duke. “I eventually landed
on video blur because no simple algorithm existed to tackle this very
important problem.”

Part of the reason for Delbracio’s choice was that other algorithms created to
address blurriness did not work very well. The standard approach tried to
figure out what caused the image degradation and then invert it.

“We showed mathematically that this process is a waste of time because it
doesn’t really help you solve the actual problem,” said Sapiro. “Thanks to
Mauricio’s brilliance and lots of discussion, we found a new way to look at
the problem.”

Sapiro and Delbracio used the very shaking that caused the blur in the first
place to find a shortcut for removing it. Because videos take many images in
rapid succession, the duo decided to try to use the surrounding frames to
sharpen the problematic image. And because a shaky hand causes random
movements, each frame is degraded differently.

The researchers wrote an algorithm that analyzes and scores the original frame
on sharpness. It then does the same for each region of nearby frames and
compares them to the original. By choosing the best available options and
compiling them into one image, a new and improved “Frankenstein frame” is
created to replace the blurred original.

“Each image has something good and something bad, so we simply tried to merge
all of the good parts,” explained Sapiro. “We discovered that once you realize
all the frames are degraded differently, it becomes very easy to do this
mathematically.”

The simplicity of the calculations means that the corrections can be made in a
matter of seconds, making it a perfect addition to any video-editing software.

“Most algorithms need several minutes to sharpen a single frame,” said
Delbracio, now an assistant professor at Universidad de la República in
Uruguay. “That’s totally unacceptable for video software. You need to be under
a second.”

A prominent figure in the field for more than a decade and having licensed his
work before, Sapiro has several contacts at various video analysis companies.
After publishing his lab’s work in _IEEE Transactions on Computational_
Imaging in June 2016, he reached out Adobe to see if they might be interested
in integrating the new method into one of their video editing platforms.

They were.

Delbracio spent about a month working with colleagues at Adobe to make sure
his algorithm worked in their environment. Writing a computer code for a
scientific paper is one thing; integrating it into a platform in an intuitive
way so that users can help shape the results is quite another.

The collaboration was successful, however, and the feature was released in the
Spring 2017 version of Adobe After Effects. The addition most notably allows
users to take shaky footage and make it stable, all while avoiding blurred
lines.

“They already knew geometrically how to take the shake out of unstable
footage,” said Delbracio. “But stabilizing the field introduces blur on top of
the image, so it’s important to do both to recover usable video.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

