

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# BME Alumni to Provide Entrepreneurial Advice

September 8, 2015

Duke Biomedical Engineering is launching a new seminar series focused on
entrepreneurship this fall.

Featuring three Duke alumni who have gone on to start successful businesses,
the lectures will give attendees the opportunity to learn from those who got
their start in exactly the same spot.

The series is the brainchild of John Oxaal (BME ’76), a serial entrepreneur
and venture capitalist out of Palo Alto, California, who is the department’s
Entrepreneur in Residence for the 2015-2016 school year. In this position,
Oxaal will be keeping office hours on Mondays, from 1:00–5:00 pm in FCIEMAS
1435, for the purpose of coaching undergraduates, graduate students and
faculty who have an idea and want to start a company.

“John has been enormously successful at both ends of the start-up business, as
an entrepreneur and venture capitalist, and is hence uniquely qualified to be
Duke BME’s inaugural entrepreneur in residence,” said Ashutosh Chilkoti, chair
of Duke’s Biomedical Engineering Department.

“My vision for these talks and my role for the semester is to help people get
focused on the most important attributes of starting a successful business,”
said Oxaal, who will also be the first speaker for the series. “Too many
people think a good idea revolving around the solution to a gnarly tech
problem is a sufficient basis upon which to start a company. While it is true
that you need a fundamental advantage when starting a new company, many other
factors ultimately determine the fate of the venture. I want to use these
talks to address the aspects of business design that are basic necessities for
success.”

As a Duke BME student in the 1970s, Oxaal worked with Olaf von Ramm on the
first two-dimensional phased-ray ultrasound systems. He then helped start
seven enterprises—some of which eventually went public—including Volumetrics,
which pioneered the first 3-D ultrasound machine.

In 1999, Oxaal joined Sevin Rosen Funds in Palo Alto, where he led the
institutional venture capital financing for 12 companies. All told, he and his
partners have funded some 125 startups over the past 15 years, both in Boston
and on the West Coast, and hopes to fill a void he sees in the Research
Triangle.

“There aren’t a lot of forums for quality consulting directed toward
entrepreneurial business in the RTP,” said Oxaal. “I think this will be an
interesting set of lectures. I hope people get excited about it.”

The first seminar will be titled, “So Why Should I Fund Your Startup?” It will
examine 10 big factors that VCs assess when deciding whether to fund a
company. It takes place on Friday, September 11, at 12:00 noon in FCIEMAS
1425.

The other two Duke alumni taking to the stage are William New (MD ‘72) and
Chikai Ohazama (PhD, BME ‘98).

New is the cofounder of Nellcor, which first developed and marketed pulse
oximetry systems—that thing a nurse puts on your finger to determine your
blood oxygen levels. He holds a PhD in electrical and computer engineering
from Stanford and earned his MD and was the chief resident in anesthesiology
at Duke Medicine. His talk will focus on the challenges he faced when starting
Nellcor and a subsequent business venture, Natus, that developed a device that
determines if a baby barely 24 hours old can hear or not. New’s lecture takes
place on Friday, September 25, at 12:00 noon in Teer 115.

Ohazama earned his bachelor’s degree in biomedical engineering from Vanderbilt
University before completing his PhD in biomedical engineering at Duke, where
he did research on real-time volumetric cardiac ultrasound imaging. After
graduation, he developed an application that used engineering, geographic
information system technology and 3-D mapping to help people see the world in
a new way. The program was bought by Google, and is now known as Google Earth.
Ohazama served as engineering lead for Google Earth for many years after the
acquisition. His lecture will focus on new types of business models, such as
those used by Google and social media companies, which provide services for
free. Ohazama’s lecture t akes place on Friday, October 23, at 12:00 noon in
Teer 115.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

