

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# BME Design Team Selected for 2017 BMES Coulter College Program

June 2, 2017 | By Michaela Kane

BME students Emelina Vienneau, Sarah Jacobs, Julia Ross and Petek Sener will
participate in the competitive four-day design experience in August.

Duke University biomedical engineering (BME) students Emelina Vienneau, Sarah
Jacobs, Petek Sener, Julia Ross and BME faculty advisor Mark Palmeri were
invited to attend the competitive 2017 Coulter College Training Program.
During the four-day event, the team will participate in various design
projects with faculty and students from different academic programs across the
country to gain practical, hands-on design experience.

The program, sponsored by the Biomedical Engineering Society (BMES), aims to
provide students with practical experience about how to translate medical
innovations into viable business models, all with the ultimate goal of
maximizing clinical benefits.

“The Coulter College Experience will allow the students to gain a great
perspective on the overall process of bringing a medical technology to
market,” says Palmeri. “Being invited to this program will help highlight the
strengths and talent of our undergraduate students.”

During the program, students will complete a specific project assigned by the
Coulter College administration. Although these projects are separate from the
design curriculum at Duke, Palmeri is optimistic about integrating the
experience from the Coulter College program into the revised BME design
curriculum that will be implemented during the 2017-2018 school year.

“Exposing these students to different perspectives and approaches to design
will not only impact the participants, but the experience will also provide
invaluable context for their senior capstone design experience that they can
share with their peers,” says Palmeri.

In addition to the design sessions, the Coulter College experience will
include lectures, workshops and an awards banquet to celebrate the work of the
students, giving the participants multiple opportunities to interact with
clinical experts and other leaders in the field of biomedical engineering.

“Our students are always craving authentic problems where they can apply the
concepts and knowledge they’ve gained during their time in class,” says
Palmeri. “This is the first step our students will take in becoming leaders in
translating the next generation of biomedical technologies to meet our
clinical needs.”

The 2017 Coulter College training program will take place August 3-6 in
Atlanta Georgia. To learn more, visit: bmes.org/2017bmescoultercollege

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

