

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Bone Bandage Soaks Up Pro-Healing Biochemical To Accelerate Repair

December 13, 2019 | By Ken Kingery

Trapping adenosine at the site of a bone break speeds recovery in mice

Researchers at Duke University have engineered a bandage that captures and
holds a pro-healing molecule at the site of a bone break to accelerate and
improve the natural healing process.

In a proof-of-principle study with mice, the bandage helped to accelerate
callus formation and vascularization to achieve better bone repair by three
weeks.

The research points toward a general method for improving bone repair after
damage that could be applied to medical products such as biodegradable
bandages, implant coatings or bone grafts for critical defects.

The results appear online on December 12 in the journal Advanced Materials.

In 2014, Shyni Varghese, professor of biomedical engineering, mechanical
engineering and materials science, and orthopedics at Duke, was studying how
popular biomaterials made of calcium phosphate promote bone repair and
regeneration. Her laboratory discovered that the biomolecule adenosine plays a
particularly large role in spurring bone growth.

After further study, they found that the body naturally floods the area around
a new bone injury with the pro-healing adenosine molecules, but those locally
high levels are quickly metabolized and don’t last long. Varghese wondered if
maintaining those high levels for longer would help the healing process.

But there was a catch.

“Adenosine is ubiquitous throughout the body in low levels and performs many
important functions that have nothing to do with bone healing,” Varghese said.
“To avoid unwanted side effects, we had to find a way to keep the adenosine
localized to the damaged tissue and at appropriate levels.”

Varghese’s solution was to let the body dictate the levels of adenosine while
helping the biochemical stick around the injury a little bit longer. She and
Yuze Zeng, a graduate student in Varghese’s laboratory, designed a biomaterial
bandage applied directly to the broken bone that contains boronate molecules
that grab onto the adenosine. However, the bonds between the molecules do not
last forever, which allows a slow release of adenosine from the bandage
without accumulating elsewhere in the body.

In the current study, Varghese and her colleagues first demonstrated that
porous biomaterials incorporated with boronates were capable of capturing the
local surge of adenosine following an injury. The researchers then applied
bandages primed to capture the host’s own adenosine or bandages preloaded with
adenosine to tibia fractures in mice.

After more than a week, the mice treated with both types of bandages were
healing faster than those with bandages not primed to capture adenosine. After
three weeks, while all mice in the study showed healing, those treated with
either kind of adenosine-laced bandage showed better bone formation, higher
bone volume and better vascularization.

The results showed that not only do the adenosine-trapping bandages promote
healing, they work whether they’re trapping native adenosine or are
artificially loaded with it, which has important implications in treating bone
fractures associated with aging and osteoporosis.

“Our previous work has shown that patients with osteoporosis don’t produce
adenosine when their bones break,” Yuze said. “These early results indicate
that these bandages could help deliver the needed adenosine to repair their
injuries while avoiding potential side effects.”

Varghese and Yuze see several other paths forward for biomedical applications
as well. For example, they imagine a biodegradable bandage that traps
adenosine to help heal broken bones and then decomposes into the body. Or for
osteoporotic patients, a permanent bandage that can be reloaded with adenosine
at sites that suffer from repeated injuries. They also envision a lubricating
gel armed with adenosine that can help prevent bone injuries caused by the
wear and tear associated with reconstructive joint surgeries or other medical
implants.

“We’ve demonstrated that this is a viable approach and filed a patent for
future devices and treatments, but we still have a long way to go,” said
Varghese. “The bandages could be engineered to capture and hold on to
adenosine more efficiently. And of course we also have to find out whether
these results hold in humans or could cause any side effects.”

This work was supported by the National Institute of Arthritis and
Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases of the National Institutes of Health (R01
AR063184, R01 AR071552).

“In Vivo Sequestration of Innate Small Molecules to Promote Bone Healing,”
Yuze Zeng, Yu-Ru V. Shih, Gurpreet S. Baht, and Shyni Varghese. Advanced
Materials, Dec. 12, 2019. DOI: 10.1002/adma.201906022

# # #

## Related News

August 21, 2019

### New Pharmaceutical Target Reverses Osteoporosis in Mice

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

