

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Boyd-Sinkler Named Director of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion for Duke
Engineering

January 15, 2021

Beginning in March 2021, Karis Boyd-Sinkler will advance diversity, equity,
inclusion and community across Duke Engineering

After an intensive nationwide search by a school-wide committee, Karis Boyd-
Sinkler has been named the new Director of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion in
the Pratt School of Engineering, beginning in March 2021.

In this vital role, Boyd-Sinkler will work with Duke Engineering’s Diversity,
Equity, Inclusion and Community (DEIC) Committee and the school’s four
departments to advance diversity, equity, inclusion and community through
activities, programs, relationships, and the development and implementation of
a strategic plan with measurable outcomes.

Key among her priorities will be to serve as an advocate and resource for Duke
Engineering students. She will also work closely with other schools and the
larger university to share best practices, advocate for our community and
provide regular updates to faculty, students and staff.

“We are thrilled to have recruited a candidate with Karis’s highly relevant
experience, demonstrated commitment to engineering education and passion for
working toward diversity and inclusion for this important role,” said Ravi
Bellamkonda, the Vinik Dean of the Pratt School of Engineering at Duke.

An engineer by training, Boyd-Sinkler received her Bachelor's in Engineering
Science from the University of Virginia with a concentration in nanomedicine
engineering, and her Master's in Industrial and Systems Engineering with a
concentration in human factors from Virginia Tech. She is currently a doctoral
candidate in Engineering Education at Virginia Tech, with an expected degree
completion date of May 2021. A recipient of a National Science Foundation
Graduate Research Fellowship, she has focused her dissertation research on
exploring the interpersonal relationships of Black men in engineering. In
addition, she actively supports and conducts research related to students from
traditionally underserved and underrepresented populations in engineering.

As a program assistant in Virginia Tech’s Center for the Enhancement of
Engineering Diversity, Boyd-Sinkler has led multiple mentoring, outreach and
professional development programs focused on recruitment and retention of
engineering students at all levels. She has also led or participated in
numerous local and national panels, workshops and seminars related to
engineering education and diversity in engineering. Prior to starting graduate
school in 2016, Boyd-Sinkler worked at the University of Virginia as the
associate director of student affairs in the Center for Diversity in
Engineering.

“I was attracted to Duke Engineering by the opportunity to work with students,
faculty and staff and to be an advocate for the entire Pratt community,” said
Boyd-Sinkler. “Everyone I’ve spoken with has been warm and welcoming, and
truly enthusiastic about working on issues of diversity and inclusion--there’s
a real desire to not just talk about positive change, but take action to get
things done. I’m humbled to step into this important role, and can’t wait to
get my feet on the ground to get started!”

Boyd-Sinkler plans to begin her new position by meeting with student affinity
groups, the DEIC committee, department leaders, and others across Duke and
Pratt to learn more about the community while completing final work toward her
PhD, and transition into the role full-time in June 2021.

“Many people across Duke Engineering have been working diligently to raise
awareness of issues of race, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, and other
inequalities in our community, and to take meaningful action to create a
community where every individual can feel that they belong, and reach their
fullest potential in a welcoming and supportive environment,” said associate
dean Nan Jokerst, who will co-chair the Pratt DEIC committee with Boyd-
Sinkler. “While there is a great deal of work ahead, we are encouraged by the
deep commitment of our community and by the enthusiasm and leadership Karis
will bring to take these initiatives to the next level.”

**Learn more about DEIC at Pratt**

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

