

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Bragg Wins National Science Foundation CAREER Award

December 8, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

Prestigious five-year award will help develop a new understanding of
turbulence within stratified fluids

Andrew Bragg, assistant professor of civil and environmental engineering at
Duke University, has been awarded a prestigious National Science Foundation
Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) Award. The award supports
outstanding young faculty members in their efforts to build a successful
research enterprise. For the next five years, the $500,000 award will support
Bragg’s efforts to develop a new understanding of how turbulence behaves in
fluids that are stratified and how it can be predicted.

While fluids can flow in a variety of ways, turbulence describes the extremely
complicated, chaotic motion that fluids frequently exhibit in natural and
engineered systems. When a fluid's density increases on average with depth,
the fluid is said to be stably stratified. This stratification, or layering,
dramatically modifies the kinds of turbulent motion possible in the fluid.

For example, one visible effect of stable stratification on turbulent flows is
that it can lead to the trapping of pollution in the lower atmosphere.
Stratification also permits internal waves that propagate inside the fluid,
which happens frequently in ocean waters but is more easily seen at the
boundary between the oil and vinegar in a bottle of salad dressing that hasn’t
been moved for a while.

“The competition between buoyancy forces and inertial forces vary from one
region of the flow to another, leading to a complex and fascinating interplay
that determines locally whether turbulence is produced or destroyed,” said
Bragg. “This is a very hard problem, and so there is only so much theory and
mathematical analysis that we can do before we start to hit a brick wall.”

> “Environmental turbulent flows play vital roles in climate and weather
> forecasting, air pollution and control, the design of engineered lakes, and
> much more. This project will lay the foundation for my long-term goals of
> making transformative contributions to understanding and predicting the role
> of turbulence in the environment.” - Andrew Bragg

With the help of this new grant, however, Bragg will begin to chip away at
this proverbial brick wall. The work will involve lots of theoretical and
mathematical analysis, together with the development of simplified/approximate
mathematical models. These will then be used in combination with large-scale
numerical simulations of the problem.

The numerical simulations can solve the equations governing the problem
exactly (in a numerical sense), but only provide data that then needs to be
interpreted and explained, and this is where the theory comes in to help.
Using a combination of theory and simulations provides a powerful approach for
making advances in understanding and modeling this challenging problem.

The end goal is to provide transformative insights into the basic physics of
stratified turbulent flows, including the role played by internal waves in
generating and distorting turbulence, the mechanisms governing the exchange of
kinetic and potential energy between different scales in the flow, and the
processes that lead to extreme fluctuations. New predictive models will also
be developed that work well for a wide variety of situations and can be
coupled to large-scale models of atmospheric and oceanic flows to predict the
behavior of turbulence at scales not resolved by such large-scale models.
Finally, new models of particle transport within stratified turbulent flows
will be developed and applied to predict the development of plankton blooms in
lakes and oceans.

“Environmental turbulent flows play vital roles in climate and weather
forecasting, air pollution and control, the design of engineered lakes, and
much more,” said Bragg. “This project will lay the foundation for my long-term
goals of making transformative contributions to understanding and predicting
the role of turbulence in the environment.”

Beyond the laboratory, Bragg will also use the grant to create inventive and
interactive displays to teach people about turbulence and complexity science
by partnering with K-12 programs and science museums. Planned examples include
interactive lessons “Fascinating Fluid Dynamics” and “Sights and Sounds of
Turbulent Art,” as well as science projects for local children. The grant will
also help develop lectures at local science museums, including “Turbulence in
Art: From Da Vinci to Van Gogh,” which will use artistic depictions of the
captivating behavior of turbulence, along with engaging audience activities,
to introduce the processes that govern turbulence and other complex systems.

## Related News

December 16, 2019

### Understanding How Energy Travels Through Turbulence

June 27, 2016

### Andrew Bragg: Making Sense of Chaos in Environmental Systems

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

