

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Breaking Down Plastic Degradation

March 12, 2019

Duke CEE PhD Candidate Joana Sipe wants to know exactly how many microplastic
particles your water bottle will contribute to our global pollution problem

Imagine these three items on the table in front of you: a torn rain jacket, a
leaky ballpoint pen and an empty sandwich bag.

Now imagine that instead of putting these items in the trash, you go outside,
drop them on the ground, and leave them there. What would happen to these
goods over time? Would the sun’s UV rays cause the pen to become brittle and
crack apart? Would wind and rain accelerate the jacket’s deterioration? How
long would it take for the bag to break down into fragments too tiny to gather
up again?

Joana Sipe, a PhD student working in the lab of Civil and Environmental
Engineering Professor Mark Wiesner, is exploring how common plastics break
down. She focuses specifically on the effects of mechanical degradation, like
how plastic that winds up in the environment is disintegrated by the forces of
wind, sand and surf.

We’ve produced more than 18 trillion tons of plastic since the 1950s, and
thrown most of it away. A startling amount has ended up in our waterways,
rivers and oceans. Over time, Sipe said, pieces of primary plastic—everything
from dental floss to candy wrappers—become tiny enough for animals to mistake
them for bits of food. Eventually, those secondary plastics become so small
that they disappear from sight, but not from existence.

“The US has the dirtiest water in the world, in terms of microplastic
contamination,” said Sipe. “There are nine plastic microparticles in every
liter of water. We don’t know how that’s going to affect toxicity. The
particles bioaccumulate, also, and we’re just beginning to understand those
health effects. We don’t know exactly how much plastic we’ve put into the
environment, and we don’t know how to clean it up. We’re in beginning
awareness mode.”

> "We don’t know exactly how much plastic we’ve put into the environment, and
> we don’t know how to clean it up. We’re in beginning awareness mode.”
>
> Joana Sipe, CEE PhD candidate

Sipe doesn’t kid herself that we can quit our plastic habit cold turkey. But
she is interested in developing recommendations for more informed plastics
use, including choices that break down less in the environment. She started,
therefore, by gathering data on six of the most commonly used plastics: nylon,
polycarbonate, thermoplastic polyurethane, high impact polystyrene,
polyethylene terephthalate glycol and polylactic acid. Sipe shaped each
material into a “dog bone” and then pulled it apart to characterize its
strength, before subjecting each material to constant abrasion in a machine
designed to slowly grind away at it.

Her theory was pretty straightforward. “We thought, the stronger the plastic,
the fewer microplastics it would generate,” said Sipe. “But we found that
actually wasn’t the case.” There was no direct correlation between an
individual measure of strength and resistance to wear; some plastics wore more
much heavily under an 80 grit sandpaper than 100 grit, for instance, or broke
down into larger particles than expected.

In the real world, Sipe said, projecting how the materials degrade is further
complicated by the astounding number of plastic formulations humans have
devised. There are countless sizes and shapes of plastic, and many
compositions—they can be manufactured as spheres or tubes and then dyed and
scented, or treated with additives to make them softer, harder or anti-
microbial.

What she has been quite successful at, said Sipe, is mimicking the force
generated by ordinary wear on specific plastic products—like chewing on a
plastic pen, or dragging the soles of your tennis shoes along the sidewalk.

Sipe is considering the next steps that would make her experiment even more
valuable. She thinks it would be particularly helpful to model shear stress
generated by the force of an ocean wave in combination with the abrasive
potential of different sediments, like gravel and sand.

“If we can correlate mechanical properties to breakdown, we can answer
questions like, ‘If you threw a water bottle into the ocean, how many
microplastic particles would it break into?’” said Sipe. “Eventually, we want
to put this data into models that will be useful to policymakers and risk
assessors.”

Sipe recently presented her findings at the Microplastics2018 conference in
Ascona, Switzerland.

More News from CEE

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

