

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Brown to Lead U.S. Army in Engineering Science Research

January 16, 2015

Brown will play a pivotal role in identifying critical research opportunities
and programs, providing technical advice to the engineering sciences director

April Brown, the John Cocke Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
in the Pratt School of Engineering at Duke University, has been tapped by the
U.S. Army to lead its extramural engineering research enterprise.

As the chief scientific leader in defining the strategy of the Army’s
extramural basic engineering research program, Brown will play a pivotal role
in identifying critical research opportunities and programs, providing
technical advice to the engineering sciences director and shaping the Army’s
science and technology investment for the future.

Brown’s own research focuses on new materials and electronic devices,
specifically exploiting molecular beam epitaxy—a technique used to build
layers of crystalline materials for advanced, high-performance devices that
support applications such as advanced sensing and communications. Outside of
Brown’s own field, her experience helping to lead Duke’s engineering research
program as the Pratt school’s senior associate dean for research from 2007 to
2010 will provide the Army with the guidance and expertise required for the
growth of their scientific portfolio.

Brown’s new role, effective January 2015, is a temporary detail executed
through the Army’s Intergovernmental Personnel Act (IPA) Mobility Program. She
will serve for two years.

“In 1989 I was a program manager at ARO, and I am very excited that I now have
the opportunity to build upon that experience, augmented by many years in the
academy, both at Duke and Georgia Tech, and in industry, at Hughes Research
Laboratories,” said Brown. “I’m looking forward to working with the leadership
and program managers at ARO to establish new directions in the Army’s basic
research portfolio.”

“This is a wonderful and well-deserved opportunity for April to expand on her
already impressive wealth of knowledge and experience,” said Tom Katsouleas,
Vinik Dean of the Pratt School of Engineering. “The appointment will also
benefit Duke by increasing our understanding of the Department of Defense’s
scientific and engineering needs, which will hopefully lead to further
partnerships and collaborations.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

