

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Building the World’s First Quantum Computer

February 11, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

Fitzpatrick Institute for Photonics researchers work to integrate proven
components into a quantum processor

From the newsletter of the Fitzpatrick Institute for Photonics, Broadband

In a building full of advanced photonics research, the laboratory of Jungsang
Kim just might have the most complicated optical setups. After all, not many
engineering challenges involve controlling the frequency of a laser to within
a millionth of a percent.

But building the world’s first quantum computer does.

This is the next big goal for Kim, a professor of electrical and computer
engineering at Duke University. And he’s not too far from achieving it.

“Back in the 1940s, researchers were just discovering how to use vacuum tubes
as simple switches,” explained Kim. “These switches could then form logic
gates, which could be linked together to form the first logic circuits. That’s
where we’re at now with quantum processors. We have verified that all the
components work. The next step is to engineer the smallest, yet most
interesting circuit possible.”

## Grant Targets Quantum Computing's Error Control Challenge

Delve into more detail and learn about Kim's new, five-year, multimillion
dollar grant from the Intelligence Advanced Research Projects Activity to
tackle the issue of qubit degreadation in quantum computing systems.

Read more

According to David DiVincenzo, a prominent computer scientist at IBM,
researchers must meet five criteria to create a true quantum computing device.

First, Kim needs **a well-defined system that can represent different
states.** For example, classical computers use small electrical switches made
out of semiconductors to indicate a 1 or a 0. But because an atom’s quantum
spin can point in an infinite number of directions, controlling its state with
a high degree of reliability is very difficult. Kim’s group has demonstrated
this feat with an accuracy on par with anyone in the world.

Once an atom’s quantum state can be controlled, the system must be made
**quantum-mechanically coherent**. If the atom interacts with the outside
world even a little bit, it loses its “quantumness,” which is bad. Again,
Kim’s laboratory has demonstrated this ability.

They have also demonstrated the ability to initialize their system to **a
well-defined starting state**. For example, in a laptop, each bit starts in
the same place – a zero – until data is written to the chip.

Fourth, a quantum processor needs enough components to **produce a universal
set of gates** , which allows one to implement arbitrary computational tasks.
Kim’s setup combines a simple two-quantum-bit gate with the ability to control
each quantum bit’s state to accomplish that.

Last but not least, a quantum computer needs to have the **ability to report
its solution**. To do that, there must be good quantum measurements, which
again, Kim’s laboratory has already demonstrated.

“All of these criteria our system meets pretty much as well as anybody else’s
can,” said Kim. “But those are just the components. If you want to build a
computer, you have to put a large number of these things together in a way
that you can control them and interact with them at will. And that system
integration is something that we are currently working on.”

After scientists in the 1940s put together the first string of vacuum tubes,
it wasn’t long before they filled rooms with tens of thousands of them to
create the first digital computer. Kim hopes to demonstrate the first small
string of “quantum vacuum tubes” within a year. After that, it will be up to
the cutting-edge technologies developed for semiconductors and
telecommunications to scale the system up.

“We do all of these quantum manipulations with atomic ions trapped on silicon
chips, so we could actually start to think about systems where we have 100
atomic ions,” said Kim. “That’s a small processor, but we have ways of
connecting multiple units to build large-scale systems. The result would be
similar to data processing centers with thousands of processors linked
together.”

“The challenge is getting today’s telecommunications technologies to work with
our quantum systems, because they operate on different wavelengths,” Kim
added. “I think we’re getting close. And if successful, not only could we make
scalable quantum computing clusters, but also quantum networks that
communicate over long distances.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

