

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# New Duke Center Takes Aim at the Dark Genome

September 30, 2019

Spanning Duke University and Duke Health, the Center for Advanced Genomic
Technologies will use homegrown tools and techniques to discover potential
therapies for human diseases from autism to cancer to schizophrenia

In an attempt to fulfill the lofty ambitions of the original Human Genome
Project, Duke University engineers, scientists and physicians are joining
forces in a new initiative to develop the missing technologies needed to
understand the tangled genetic webs underpinning many of humanity’s most
stubborn diseases and unearth new drug targets and gene therapies to fight
them.

The complexity of human biology and the big data stemming from it have all but
walled off efforts to comprehensively understand the functions of most of the
human genome. To scale these walls, the Duke Center for Advanced Genomic
Technologies (CAGT) will build upon its faculty’s long track record of
pioneering tools and techniques to probe the human genome, with a particular
focus on teasing out the secrets of the so-called “dark genome”—the vast but
largely unexplored territory of non-protein-coding DNA thought to hold the
keys to treating common, complex disorders such as cancer and neurological
disease.

“There is an amazing team of engineers, scientists and clinicians at Duke
coalescing around the challenges of studying and manipulating the human genome
to treat disease,” said Charlie Gersbach, a leader in the development of
CRISPR-based technologies who will direct the CAGT. “The mission of the CAGT
is to build on their strengths, integrate their expertise, and support their
entrepreneurial efforts to maximize impact of tackling grand challenges in
genomics and epigenomics.”

Launched with the support of the Pratt School of Engineering, the Trinity
College of Arts and Sciences and the School of Medicine, the CAGT will focus
its efforts on five key areas: genome structure and function, gene regulation,
epigenomics of disease, genomics of drug response, and genome engineering
technologies. Its faculty are already noted for pioneering advances in genomic
tools and technologies, including next-generation DNA sequencing, CRISPR-based
genome editing, high-throughput assays of genome structure and gene
regulation, and single-cell genomics, which together provide a powerful
toolkit for exploring these frontiers—especially the dark genome that makes up
98 percent of our shared blueprint.

In a clear sign of their potential, many of the Duke-born technologies
developed for this work formed the basis of a Duke biotech startup called
Element Genomics, which was acquired in 2018 by UCB, a global pharmaceuticals
company with a focus on neurology and immunology.

Researchers know that the dark genome harbors the genetic regulators
responsible for more than 90 percent of susceptibility to common diseases,
including neurodegenerative, neuropsychiatric, autoimmune, and cardiovascular
disorders, as well as predisposition to cancer. However, most studies of human
gene function have completely ignored this gigantic piece of the puzzle, even
though it is these mysterious genetic sites that represent a tremendous
opportunity to attack diseases from a new direction. The lack of attention to
the dark genome has historically been due to a lack of technologies for
studying this biology.

With a number of world-leading biomedical engineers and scientists, Duke is
emerging as a powerhouse in areas spanning gene therapy, stem cell and
organoid technologies, microphysiological human tissue systems for drug
testing, single-cell analysis tools, and innovative computational methods for
analyzing large genomic datasets. A major goal of the center is to develop and
integrate these otherwise disparate technologies and disease areas into a
novel, concentrated approach to genomic discovery.

“This center is unique in that it’s focused on decoding the dark genome,” said
Ravi Bellamkonda, Vinik Dean of the Pratt School of Engineering. “This is
crucial to understanding complex diseases like schizophrenia, cancer and
Alzheimer’s, and Duke is one of the few places with the depth and breadth of
expertise to believe such an outrageously ambitious project might just work.”

Moreover, such technologies can be applied to any range of diseases or
biological questions. Aside from big plans to tackle the dark genome, a few of
the center’s first projects aim to identify the gene regulatory networks that
distinguish healthy versus diseased immune responses; understand how drugs
used in oncology, inflammatory diseases, neurology and genetic diseases impact
gene regulation in disease states; and define the function of genetic
regulatory elements in different cells and environmental contexts. Identifying
the right collaborations to answer the right questions at the right time will
be an ongoing process within the CAGT and as part of the international
genomics research community.

“The CAGT is an important part of our strategic plan to unify and elevate
recognition of Duke’s tremendous expertise in cutting-edge genomic
technologies,” said Colin Duckett, vice dean for basic sciences in the Duke
University School of Medicine. “The opportunities created by building around
existing successes of our faculty and integrating their efforts with
complementary genomics activities through the new Duke Precision Genomics
Collaboratory were clear.”

“The CAGT will leverage and integrate the range of unique expertise in genomic
sciences here at Duke,” added Svati Shah, associate dean of genomics in the
School of Medicine and director of the Duke Precision Genomics Collaboratory.
“It’s a really exciting endeavor, taking a deeper dive into better
understanding the human genome and tackling how these poorly understood areas
of the genome can help us better understand rare and common diseases.”

The CAGT is directed by Gersbach, the Rooney Family Associate Professor of
Biomedical Engineering and associate professor in surgery, who has focused on
developing CRISPR technologies for both gene therapy and manipulating the web
of biomolecules that determines which genes each cell activates and to what
degree. This allows researchers to probe the roles of genes, but also provides
methods for perturbing the dark genome in its natural context for the first
time.

Additional center leadership includes a steering committee with expertise
spanning CAGT focus areas:

  * Maria Ciofani, Department of Immunology - Epigenomics of Disease
  * Greg Crawford, Department of Pediatrics - Genome Structure and Function
  * Tim Reddy, Department of Bioinformatics and Biostatistics - Gene
    Regulation
  * Kris Wood, Department of Pharmacology and Cancer Biology - Genetics of
    Drug Response
  * Jennifer Reininga-Craven, executive director, formerly associate director
    of the Duke School of Medicine Office of Research Development

“Many of us have been doing really fun and interesting work that could have a
major impact on human health with support from very different sources like the
National Institutes of Health, industry and philanthropy,” said Gersbach.
“Coordinating that collaboration through a focused center is a way to amplify
and accelerate what grew organically across the Duke schools and departments
and drive our efforts toward improving human health.”

_For more information, visitcagt.pratt.duke.edu. _

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

