

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Calderbank Receives Shannon Award

July 7, 2014

The award honors consistent and profound contributions to the field of
information theory

Robert Calderbank, director of the Information Initiative at Duke (iiD) and
the Charles S. Sydnor Professor of Computer Science, has been named the 2015
recipient of the Claude E. Shannon Award by the IEEE Information Theory
Society.

“The Shannon Award is as big as it gets in electrical engineering and computer
science,” said Tom Katsouleas, dean of the Pratt School of Engineering, where
Calderbank is a professor of electrical and computer engineering. “We couldn’t
be more proud and pleased that our distinguished colleague has received this
recognition from his home society. It reflects the fundamental role he’s
played in communications, with many of his algorithms in use in mobile phone
and internet communications today.”

"Robert is joining a list of the giants of information theory," said Vice
Provost for Research Larry Carin in an email to faculty in electrical and
computer engineering. "Many of these people are the pioneers responsible for
our modern highly integrated world, driven by the remarkably efficient
transfer and storage of information."

"To think of Robert's work only within the technical arena would be an error,"
said Laurie Patton, dean of Trinity College of Arts & Sciences. "Through his
work in iiD at Duke he has also integrated information technology into the
arts, humanities and social sciences through a variety of curricular
initiatives. He has dramatically improved the intellectual 'signaling' between
the arts and the sciences as well."

Calderbank joined Duke in 2010 to become dean of natural sciences after
directing the Program in Applied and Computational Mathematics at Princeton
University. Prior to joining Princeton in 2004, he was vice president for
research at AT&T, responsible for one of the first industrial research labs to
focus on "big data." He is a member of the National Academy of Engineering.

The Claude Shannon Award honors “consistent and profound contributions to the
field of information theory.” It is named for a man considered the father of
information theory, who in his 1937 MIT masters thesis first proposed applying
Boolean logic to electrical circuits.

Calderbank will present a Shannon Lecture at the IEEE International Symposium
on Information Theory in Summer 2015 in Hong Kong.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

