

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Campus-Wide Autism Research App Collaboration Wins Duke Teamwork Award

November 4, 2015

Teamwork Award for Collaborative Workplace Environments

This past spring, Apple released a new open-source software framework known as
ResearchKit, which allowed for the creation of new apps geared toward medical
research. Duke immediately planned to get involved.

Bringing together 25 faculty and staff from across 11 schools and departments,
a group of employees came together to donate time and resources to create an
app that uses video analysis and machine learning techniques in children to
potentially develop a screening tool for autism and other mental health and
developmental challenges. Released in October, the “Autism & Beyond” app
offers a novel way for families to better determine the needs of children.

“This collaboration across the various teams enabled us to quickly deliver a
robust, high-quality app that will significantly impact our understanding of
autism,” read the nomination from Paula Morrison, assistant dean of
application development at Duke’s Office of Research Informatics. “A bonus
side effect of this project is that we have all built collaborative
relationships that will serve us well in the future.”

Each year, Duke recognizes university and health system employees as Teamwork
and Diversity award winners for contributions to Duke and Durham.

Besides the collaboration for the autism research app, a Teamwork Award for
collaborative workplace environments also went to Duke Raleigh Hospital’s
TeamSTEPPS Steering Committee.

Duke President Richard H. Brodhead honored all the award recipients during an
event at Sarah P. Duke Gardens on Tuesday.

“The secret of what makes Duke able to do the different things that it does in
its mission is pretty simple, which is you actually just need outstanding
people to make these things possible,” said Brodhead, who spoke about Duke's
commitment to academics, research and patient care. “You need people who are
skilled, people who are devoted…they have to be people who have a sense of the
values of this place.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

