

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Scientists Pair 3D Bioprinting and Computer Modeling to Examine Cancer
Spread in Blood Vessels

August 27, 2020 | By Jeremy Thomas

Advanced computer simulations help better understand how tumor cells attach to
blood vessels to form new tumors

_From Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory_

Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory scientists have paired 3D-printed,
living human brain vasculature with Duke University's advanced computational
flow simulations to better understand tumor cell attachment to blood vessels,
the first step in secondary tumor formation during cancer metastasis. The
unique approach, developed with outside collaborators, lays the foundation for
developing a predictive capability that can help clinicians and researchers
anticipate the spread of cancer within individual patients.

The study, published online today in the journal Science Advances, describes a
new approach to training computational models on biological processes and
provides insights into how and why cancer cells metastasize in certain areas
of the vasculature, researchers reported. The team, which includes scientists
at Duke University, combined bioengineering and computation to analyze the
physics behind circulating tumor cell (CTC) behavior and the cells' attachment
to the vascular endothelium, the layer of cells that line the interior surface
of blood vessels.

Tumor cells tend to escape from a primary tumor and travel through the
vasculature, where they eventually attach to a vessel wall, pass through the
endothelium into the tissue and grow like a seed in soil, usually in areas
such as forks in the blood vessels, explained LLNL biomedical engineer Monica
Moya, principal investigator of the study and lead researcher on LLNL's bio-
printed vasculature device.

While research has been done on what attracts tumors to certain areas, less is
known about the contribution of physics in cancer metastases, because the
processes are extremely difficult to replicate in the lab, Moya said.
Typically, scientists use animal models, which make real-time visualization
and measurements of the spread of circulating tumor cells complicated and less
relevant to human biology. However, LLNL's 3D-printed vasculature device is
well-suited for addressing the physics involved in cancer spreading via
metastasis because researchers can control the biology, fluid dynamics and
geometry of the vasculature and perform real-time measurements of actual
vascular flow and how it affects circulating tumor cells.

"Computational modeling is definitely a useful tool, but you still need to
benchmark it against something real," Moya said. "With this approach, we can
make the biology as simple and clean as it needs to be to validate the models,
and we can increase the complexity, both in the biology and the computational
model. Physics matters in biology, and this paper really sets the framework of
how you can use these in vitro models, paired with simulations, to tease apart
the contribution of the biology and the physics and really bring a strength to
the field that has been lacking."

To create the in vitro system, Moya and her team 3D printed vasculature out of
human cerebral endothelial cells, subjecting them to flow conditions in the
fluidic platform. After the cells completely covered the device's channels,
they aligned within the vessels and after about a week, researchers injected a
breast cancer cell line into the device to see how and where the tumor cells
began to metastasize (or stuck) inside the newly formed brain vasculature.
After the tumor cells circulated at physiological flow rates, Claire
Robertson, a Lawrence Fellow who works on developing models of early breast
cancer, mapped more than 6,000 cells that adhered to the vessel walls and
compared them to local biophysics. These experimental results were then
compared to 3D computational simulations replicating geometries gathered from
the 3D maps to reproduce the exact geometry of the bio-printed vessels,
enabling highly accurate fluid dynamics analysis of the attachment conditions,
researchers said.

"Adapting this advanced bioprinting process to engineer functional, perfusable
human brain vasculature was extremely challenging, however we now have a
strong handle on the technique and can potentially fabricate a wide variety of
living human tissue constructs," said lead author and LLNL research staff
engineer William "Rick" Hynes. "Using this approach, we were able to test,
observe and measure a biological phenomenon that was previously impossible,
and we will continue to iterate on these findings to shed light on how and
when circulating tumor cells choose their targets in vivo. By pairing our
engineered platform with computational modeling, we can directly interrogate
the behavior of metastatic cells and the rules that govern them far more
rapidly than through experimentation alone."

For the computational component of the research, Moya and her team worked with
Amanda Randles, a former Lawrence Fellow at LLNL, now an assistant professor
in biomedical engineering at Duke University. Randles' team used an algorithm
called HARVEY, developed by Randles, to replicate blood flow and cancer cells,
validating the code on micro-vessels and introducing explicit cancer cells
modeled in the geometry. The code was developed and optimized for the Summit
supercomputer at Oak Ridge National Laboratory, but the simulations were
completed at LLNL and at Duke.

Using HARVEY, researchers were able to capture flow rates that would be
difficult to do by in vitro devices alone, allowing researchers to "turn off"
specific parameters that wouldn't be possible in experiments, such as the
elasticity of a cell, number of cell receptors or flow profile, Randles said.
With the approach, researchers determined that wall shear stress is important
in determining cell adhesion to vessel walls but does not solely govern the
tumor attachment process. Areas where circulating tumor cells stuck were not
fully explained by blood flow patterns alone, suggesting that flow could
potentially activate the endothelial cells and contribute to where circulating
tumor cells adhere, researchers said.

The living vasculature bioprinted at LLNL was essential to validating the
computer models, Randles said, because it allows for a controlled environment
where factors such as geometry can be precisely replicated.

"Biology is complex," Randles said. "We're starting to get closer to mimicking
the real biology of what you're seeing in the vasculature, but doing so in a
stepwise fashion where everything is controlled, we know what the material
properties are of the walls, the geometry we've set up and the flow that's
going through. We can start to get toward replicating what's really happening
in the body, where we have a test bed to understand how cancer cells interact
and why you may see metastases occur where you do."

Moya said the combination of bioprinted in vitro devices with computer models
could allow researchers to decouple the biological and physical contributions
that drive metastatic seeding. Such simulations could be used to predict
locations where tumors will spread, which would enable targeted screening of
high-risk patients and therapeutic intervention aimed at the most vulnerable
areas. Clinicians could take patient MRIs and use them to simulate where
circulating tumor cells are likely to get stuck, and the models could tell
clinicians which areas to focus their attention to greatly enhance the
efficacy of treatments, Moya added.

"Most people don't really think about using these in vitro beds as a way of
growing the computational part," Moya said. "These are two really powerful
technologies. It's something we're uniquely suited to because we have access
to supercomputers. There is more to these tissue constructs than just
glorified in vitro studies — you can actually get useful information and start
to acknowledge the role of physics in biology."

The LLNL team, led by Moya, has submitted a grant for a follow-on project that
will examine how flow patterns, vascular geometry, tumor cell mechanics and
tissue mechanics influence the metastatic cascade, Moya said. They are working
to develop ways to capture cellular interactions in larger geometries, which
will require higher resolution models and studying flow behavior of different
cancer cell types. Researchers are also pursuing funding to support additional
bioprinting efforts, such as a project led by Hynes focusing on developing
novel techniques for printing living microbial cells for a wide variety of
applications, ranging from biomanufacturing to smart materials.

Moya wants to increase the complexity of bioprinted vasculature to further
examine the role of biophysics in the progression of deadly disease.
Additionally, a separate team led by Hynes and Moya is looking at modeling
blood flow in bioprinted brain aneurysms to test surgical interventions, as
well as continuing work with Randles' group at Duke for simulating vascular
blood-clot formation in response to aneurysm treatments.

The work was funded by a Laboratory Directed Research and Development (LDRD)
Exploratory Research project on breast cancer metastasis to the brain. Co-
authors included LLNL scientists Javier Alvarado, Karen Dubbin and Michael
Triplett, as well as Marianna Pepona of Duke University and Jonathan Adorno, a
former LLNL student intern and GEM scholar, now at Ohio State University.

## Related News

August 06, 2019

### Simulating Blood Flow at the Cellular Level

May 02, 2019

### HARVEY Helps Move Bioprinted Organs Closer to Reality

August 16, 2017

### Randles Named an MIT Technology Review Innovator Under 35

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

