

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Catching Cellular Impacts of Bubbles and Jets

December 7, 2015 | By Ken Kingery

New technique captures diverse effects of cavitation bubbles on individual
cells

Duke researchers have devised a way to take an in-depth look at a poorly
understood phenomenon that commonly occurs in medical procedures using
therapeutic ultrasound, such as shattering kidney stones, delivering drugs to
cells, and, most recently, breaking the blood-brain barrier.

When ultrasonic pressure waves move through a liquid, they can cause bubbles
to form and oscillate rapidly around gaseous imperfections. If these so-called
cavitation bubbles collapse very close to a boundary or the surface of another
bubble, they can produce fast-moving jets to erupt in their wake. The
phenomenon can be so powerful that it can cause severe damage to ship
propellers.

Cavitation bubbles form as high-amplitude ultrasonic pressure waves travel
through liquid. While commonly exploited in many medical procedures, their
interactions with tissues are not clearly understood, especially at the
cellular level.

Cavitation bubbles are also behind a recent finding from Sunnybrook Health
Sciences Centre in Toronto in which a team successfully delivered cancer drugs
through the blood-brain barrier of a patient.

In a new study, Duke researchers used high-speed, high-resolution cameras to
reveal minute details of how cavitation bubbles affect nearby cells. The
results appear online the week of Dec. 7, in the Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences.

The effects of these powerful little bubbles on living cells “have long been a
‘black box’ where results are hard to predict and it is unknown why certain
outcomes occur,” said Pei Zhong, the Anderson-Rupp Professor of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science at Duke. “We hope this new experimental
system can provide much-needed mechanistic insights, which could help optimize
therapeutic procedures and lead to new creative treatments.”

Depending on the proximity of the bubbles, these jets can rapidly stretch
nearby cells, poke holes in them or even obliterate their membranes.
Understanding how different cells react to these jets will inform a wide
variety of medical techniques, Zhong said.

“The experimental control and precision we have developed is unprecedented,”
said Zhong. “We have created a unique and versatile tool to study how cells
respond to cavitation-induced shear flows. Future results providing mechanical
characterizations of individual cells could be harnessed for disease diagnosis
and treatment monitoring.”

The new technique begins with a microfluidic chamber -- a glass slide with a
silicone channel that is filled with fluid. A laser pulse passes through the
bottom of the glass slide and strikes the opposite side, which is covered in
tiny gold dots near individual cells that are grown in patterned islands.

When the focused, pulsed laser strikes a gold dot, it vaporizes the
surrounding fluid, causing a cavitation bubble to form. By creating two
bubbles side-by-side at slightly different times, the researchers can control
the direction of the resulting jet when the bubbles collapse.

In their experiments, Zhong and his team placed individual cells at different
distances away from these jets to observe how they react to different levels
of shear stress. The results have already yielded some interesting insights.

“Previous studies have shown that cell membranes can only withstand a three
percent increase in area strain before rupturing,” said Zhong. “But these
experiments stretched the membrane for a second or longer. Our results have
shown that if the membrane is stretched for a millisecond or less, it can
actually withstand strains an order of magnitude higher before a minute pore
is formed. And importantly, small pores can reseal, allowing the target cell
to fully recover. Observations such as these could open the door to new or
improved therapies.”

This work was supported by NIH grants R03-EB017886-01A1 and R37-DK052985-18.

###

“Cell Membrane Deformation and Bioeffects Produced by Tandem Bubble Induced
Jetting Flow.” Fang Yuan, Chen Yang, Pei Zhong. PNAS, Dec. 7, 2015. DOI:
10.1073/pnas.1518679112

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

