

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# "Cervical Cancer Revolution” Proposal Among Top 100 for MacArthur $100
Million Grant

February 19, 2020

Duke biomedical engineer Nimmi Ramanujam’s plan aims to close the cervical
cancer inequity gap and catalyze a new model of women-centered health care

The John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation today unveiled that Duke
professor Nimmi Ramanujam’s “Women-Inspired Strategies for Health (WISH): A
Revolution Against Cervical Cancer” was one of the highest-scoring proposals
in its 100&Change competition for a single $100 million grant to help solve
one of the world’s most critical social challenges. The proposal was
designated among the Top 100 and will enter the next round of competition this
spring.

More than one billion women struggle to access sexual and reproductive health
care due to physical, financial, cultural and technical barriers. The
disparities in cervical cancer prevention, diagnosis and treatment exemplifies
this crisis. By 2030, the mortality rate from cervical cancer in developing
countries will be ten-fold higher than that in developed countries. At this
pace, there will be more than 20 million new cervical cancer cases by 2060,
and future vaccination will only reduce the number of new cases by 10 percent.

The Women-Inspired Strategies for Health (WISH) proposal aims to change this
trajectory by empowering women with the knowledge, tools and support to close
the cervical cancer inequity gap and catalyze a new model of women-centered
health care.

Led by Nimmi Ramanujam, director of the Global Women’s Health Technologies
Center at Duke University, the program is based on years of research,
development and field-testing of portable, user-friendly cervical cancer
screening and diagnostics technologies for use in low-resource settings. By
decentralizing solutions from hospitals to communities and even women’s homes,
the team expects to dramatically increase screening and treatment rates.

“We are extremely thrilled and grateful to be recognized as one of the Top 100
proposals in the 100&Change competition, and excited to make WISH a reality
for women facing critical health care gaps,” said Ramanujam, the Robert W.
Carr, Jr. Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering. “This project is
necessarily a team endeavor and reflects the power of community to make the
impossible, possible. I would like to thank each and every member of my team
for their incredible dedication that brought us to this point. Our hope is
that WISH’s women-centered approach will spark a multiplier effect where women
empower women to end deaths from cervical cancer.”

The Top 100 proposals were rigorously vetted, undergoing MacArthur’s initial
administrative review, a Peer-to-Peer review, then an evaluation by an
external panel of judges and finally, a technical review by specialists whose
expertise was matched to the project.

These proposals will be showcased on the Bold Solutions Network, which was
designed to help identify the most effective, enduring solutions aligned with
donors’ philanthropic goals and to help top applicants gain visibility and
funding from a wide array of funders.

The Bold Solutions Network will provide a menu of technical support and
learning opportunities, including a variety of webinars, pro bono services,
coaching, workshops, cohort support and peer networking opportunities across
the network and in various regions around the world.

Each proposal was evaluated using four criteria: impactful, evidence-based,
feasible and durable. MacArthur’s Board of Directors will select up to 10
finalists from these high-scoring proposals this spring.

To learn more about Nimmi Ramanujam and her work at Duke, check out her recent
profile in Magnify, a new publication from the School of Medicine.

“MacArthur seeks to generate increased recognition, exposure and support for
the high-impact ideas designated as the Top 100,” said Cecilia Conrad, CEO of
Lever for Change and MacArthur Managing Director, 100&Change. “Based on our
experience in the first round of 100&Change, we know the competition will
produce multiple compelling and fundable ideas. We are committed to matching
philanthropists with powerful solutions and problem solvers to accelerate
social change.”

100&Change is a distinctive competition that is open to organizations and
collaborations working in any field, anywhere in the world. Proposals must
identify a problem and offer a solution that promises significant and durable
change. Key issues in the competition are discussed in a blog on MacArthur's
website.  

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

