

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Chakrabarty Awarded Fellowship from Japan Society for the Promotion of
Science

February 15, 2018

Program brings foreign researchers to Japan to promote international academic
exchange

Krishnendu Chakrabarty, the William H. Younger Professor of Engineering at
Duke University and chair of Duke’s Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering, has been awarded a fellowship from the Japan Society for the
Promotion of Science (JSPS) in the “Short-term S: Noble Prize Level” category.
Chakrabarty is an internationally known computer engineering innovator
recognized for his pioneering work in lab-on-a-chip design automation, 3-D
integrated circuits and wireless sensor networks.

JSPS strives to develop itself as a vibrant research-support organization that
advances research driven by researchers’ own free ideas while fostering
talented researchers of the next generation. The "JSPS International
Fellowships for Research in Japan (Invitational Fellowship)" invites overseas
researchers to promote international academic exchange.

The “Short-term S: Nobel Prize Level” is available for researchers who have
research achievements and awards on the level of a Nobel Prize and who are
active leaders in their fields to give lectures, guide research and conduct
other activities in Japan for up to 30 days. Past winners include a number of
eminent researchers who have previously won the Nobel Prize.

Chakrabarty was nominated by Professor Seiji Kajihara, dean of the School of
Computer Science and Systems Engineering at the Kyushu Institute of
Technology. For two weeks, Chakrabarty will travel through Japan, giving
distinguished lectures and meeting university professors, senior
administrators and graduate students. He will also continue collaborative
research with Japanese institutions on 3D integrated circuits and data
analytics for reliable 3D integrated circuit design.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

