

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Chakrabarty Named Chair of Duke Electrical & Computer Engineering

July 18, 2017

Chakrabarty, the William H. Younger Professor of Engineering at Duke, is an
internationally known computer engineering innovator recognized for his
pioneering work in lab-on-a-chip design automation, 3-D integrated circuits
and wireless sensor networks.

Krishnendu Chakrabarty has been named chair of the Department of Electrical
and Computer Engineering (ECE) at Duke University, effective September 1,
2017.

Chakrabarty, the William H. Younger Professor of Engineering at Duke, is an
internationally known computer engineering innovator recognized for his
pioneering work in lab-on-a-chip design automation, 3-D integrated circuits
and wireless sensor networks.

“We are fortunate to have a scholar and leader of Krish’s caliber to lead Duke
ECE,” said Ravi V. Bellamkonda, Vinik Dean of the Pratt School of Engineering,
in announcing the appointment. “We have an extraordinarily strong department
with significant strengths in areas such as metamaterials, imaging, quantum
computing, data sciences and computer engineering, as well as tremendous
opportunities for growth and investment over the next few years. I am
confident that under Krish’s leadership, we will strengthen the ECE community
and significantly enhance our external visibility to continue Duke ECE’s
upward march.”

“I’m honored to serve the department and excited to realize my vision of
ECE—shared by the Pratt leadership and my faculty and staff colleagues—as a
‘renaissance’ department that is unencumbered of traditional discipline
boundaries and narrow definitions of research areas,” said Chakrabarty, who
joined Duke ECE in 1998.

Among Chakrabarty’s chief priorities as chair will be to showcase and expand
the department’s strengths in crosscutting research areas with high impact
such as big data, robotics, security and beyond, as well as to strengthen
research and educational partnerships between ECE and Duke’s computer science
department to make computing “center stage” across Duke.

“Duke ECE is in some ways a hidden gem, but this is really a place where all
the action is,” Chakrabarty said. “I will make it a top priority to expand our
visibility nationally and internationally and raise awareness of the
department’s established record of excellence, enviable record of recent
accomplishments, and drive and hunger to continue on this trajectory.”

With 32 tenure-track faculty and more than 260 graduate and 230 undergraduate
students, the department is home to major externally funded research centers
in quantum computing, acoustic and optical metamaterials, and environmental
sensing. Ranked among the top 30 electrical and computer engineering programs
by _U.S.News & World Report_, Duke ECE is currently among the top 10
departments in the nation for faculty scholarly productivity in electrical
engineering and tied for #1 in the nation for computer engineering, according
to Academic Analytics benchmarking data.

“We’re fortunate to have outstanding students and faculty, and will continue
to focus on recruiting the best and brightest talent,” said Chakrabarty. In
particular, he said, the department will work to diversify its course
offerings and enrich undergraduate and graduate curriculum to prepare students
for future trends in the marketplace, and strengthen its commitment to
diversity in faculty and student recruitment.

“Krish is highly respected as an outstanding scholar and colleague,” said
George Truskey, senior associate dean for research in the Pratt School of
Engineering. “He has an excellent foundation upon which to further strengthen
the research and educational missions of the ECE department.”

Among his many honors, Chakabarty earlier this year received the IEEE Circuits
and Systems Society Technical Achievement Award. The recognition joins his
2015 win of the IEEE Computer Society Technical Achievement Award, making him
one of only two researchers worldwide to have received both IEEE societies’
top honors.

Chakrabarty has also served as director of graduate studies for Duke ECE, and
has personally mentored nearly 30 doctoral students. He is a recipient of Duke
University's 2008 Dean's Award for Excellence in Mentoring, and the 2010
Capers and Marion McDonald Award for Excellence in Mentoring and Advising from
the Pratt School of Engineering, Duke University.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

