

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Chakrabarty Wins 2017 IEEE Circuits and Systems Society Technical
Achievement Award

May 18, 2017

Computer engineering innovator recognized for work in lab-on-a-chip design
automation, 3-D integrated circuits and wireless sensor networks

Krishnendu Chakrabarty, the William H. Younger Professor of Engineering in
Duke University’s Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, has won
the Charles A. Desoer Technical Achievement Award from the IEEE Circuits and
Systems (CAS) Society.

The award honors researchers whose exceptional technical contributions to a
field within the scope of the Circuits and Systems Society have been
consistently evident over a period of years. Chakrabarty was cited for
“contributions to the design of microfluidic biochips, testing and design-for-
test of system-on-chip and 3-D integrated circuits, and infrastructure
optimization of wireless sensor networks, as well as for technical leadership,
industry impact, and inspiring researchers worldwide.”

The recognition joins Chakrabarty’s IEEE Computer Society Technical
Achievement Award in 2015, making him one of only two researchers worldwide to
have received both IEEE societies’ top honors. The IEEE is the largest
professional body for electrical and computer engineers and comprises many
individual societies. The Computer Society and the Circuits and Systems
Society are the two that Chakrabarty is most closely associated with.

“This award is a testament to the excellent environment for growth and
commitment to excellence that Duke Engineering has provided over my career,”
said Chakrabarty, who has been on Duke’s faculty since 1998.

Early in his career, Chakrabarty studied wireless sensor networks, making
fundamental contributions to the optimization of sensor coverage and
connectivity, self-organization, and mobility management. Since the
early-2000s, he has focused on system-on-a-chip and lab-on-a-chip
technologies.

Chakrabarty developed the first optimization methods to manipulate nanoliter
droplets in a microchip setting and developed automated testing and diagnostic
techniques for valve-based biochips. His microfluidics work was licensed by
spinoff company Advanced Liquid Logic, launched by Duke colleague Richard Fair
and students, which was acquired by Illumina in 2013. Its technology is
currently used by 170 companies, hospitals and laboratories worldwide.

“Now we want to make these lab-on-a-chip systems more intelligent so that they
can conduct multiple processes on the same chip at very large scales,” said
Chakrabarty. “If you compare it to the development of computers, we just
recently got this technology past the ‘punch card’ stage. Now we have to get
it into the integrated circuit stage with compilers and operating systems.”

In another line of research, Chakrabarty is literally trying to advance
today’s computers past that integrated circuit stage. His work focuses on the
design of “vertically integrated” 3-D microchip processors that can test
themselves for errors—or even predict future problems using machine learning.

“If the system can see an error coming, it can reconfigure itself beforehand
and adapt to impending errors,” said Chakrabarty, who notes the advantage this
would provide for massive data hubs and routers that must remain operational
nearly 100 percent of the time. “In these systems, even 10 seconds of downtime
over a three-month period is too much.”

Chakrabarty credits his expanding portfolio in large part to Duke
engineering’s growth in these areas over the past several years. The
Information Initiative at Duke has brought together researchers from disparate
areas interested in leveraging advances in Big Data and Machine Learning,
which has helped his work on error prediction. Duke also recently hired Yiran
Chen, Hai "Helen" Li and Xin Li, who are on the forefront of data analytics
and brain-inspired “neuromorphic” computing using memory-resistor hybrids
called memristers, which Chakrabarty is also pursuing.

“The growth of Duke’s strength in computer engineering has provided
increasingly fertile areas for collaboration for both me and my graduate
students,” said Chakrabarty, who has overseen the doctorates of 29 students.
“It’s been a smart move, as many industry giants are also pursuing these areas
heavily. It’s actually gotten to the point where I don’t have enough graduate
students to fill all of the internship and full-time job opportunities that
companies are approaching me with.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

