

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Chakrabarty, Randles Elected Senior Members of the National Academy of
Inventors

August 16, 2019

NAI Senior Members are active faculty, scientists and administrators who have
demonstrated remarkable innovation producing technologies that have brought,
or aspire to bring, real impact on the welfare of society

Krishnendu Chakrabarty, the John Cocke Distinguished Professor and Chair of
the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Duke University, and
Amanda Randles, the Alfred Winborne and Victoria Stover Mordecai Assistant
Professor of Biomedical Sciences at Duke University, have been named Senior
Members of the National Academy of Inventors (NAI) along with 52 of their
academic peers in the Spring 2019 class.

NAI Senior Members are active faculty, scientists and administrators from its
Member Institutions who have demonstrated remarkable innovation producing
technologies that have brought, or aspire to bring, real impact on the welfare
of society. They also have proven success in patents, licensing and
commercialization. An individual's nomination for the NAI Senior Member class
by its supporting institution is a distinct honor and a significant way for
the organization to publicly recognize its innovators on a national level. At
their host institutions, Senior Members will continue to foster a spirit of
innovation, while educating and mentoring the next generation of inventors.

Chakrabarty is an internationally known computer engineering innovator
recognized for his pioneering work in lab-on-a-chip design automation, 3-D
integrated circuits and wireless sensor networks. Randles is developing a
massively parallel fluid dynamics simulation called HARVEY capable of modeling
the full human arterial system at subcellular resolution.

This latest class of NAI Senior Members represents 32 research universities
and government and non-profit research institutes. They are named inventors on
over 860 issued U.S. patents.

"NAI Member Institutions support some of the most elite innovators on the
horizon. With the NAI Senior Member award distinction, we are recognizing
innovators that are rising stars in their fields," said Paul R. Sanberg, NAI
President. "This new class is joining a prolific group of academic visionaries
already defining tomorrow."

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

