

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Disordered Materials Could Be Hardest, Most Heat-Tolerant Ever

November 26, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

Computational simulations predict new class of carbides that could disrupt
industries from machinery to aerospace

Materials scientists at Duke University and UC San Diego have discovered a new
class of carbides expected to be among the hardest materials with the highest
melting points in existence. Made from inexpensive metals, the new materials
may soon find use in a wide range of industries from machinery and hardware to
aerospace.

A carbide is traditionally a compound consisting of carbon and one other
element. When paired with a metal such as titanium or tungsten, the resulting
material is extremely hard and difficult to melt. This makes carbides ideal
for applications such as coating the surface of cutting tools or parts of a
space vehicle.

A small number of complex carbides containing three or more elements also
exist, but are not commonly found outside of the laboratory or in industrial
applications. This is mostly due to the difficulties of determining which
combinations can form stable structures, let alone have desirable properties.

A team of materials scientists at Duke University and UC San Diego have now
announced the discovery of a new class of carbides that join carbon with five
different metallic elements at once. The results appear online on November 26
in the journal Nature Communications.

Achieving stability from the chaotic mixture of their atoms rather than
orderly atomic structure, these materials were computationally predicted to
exist by the researchers at Duke University and then successfully synthesized
at UC San Diego.

“These materials are harder and lighter in weight than current carbides,” said
Stefano Curtarolo, professor of mechanical engineering and materials science
at Duke. “They also have very high melting points and are made out of
relatively cheap material mixtures. This combination of attributes should make
them very useful to a wide range of industries.”

When students learn about molecular structures, they’re shown crystals like
salt, which resembles a 3-D checkerboard. These materials gain their stability
and strength through regular, ordered atomic bonds where the atoms fit
together like pieces of a jigsaw puzzle.

Imperfections in a crystalline structure, however, can often add strength to a
material. If cracks start to propagate along a line of molecular bonds, for
example, a group of misaligned structures can stop it in its tracks. Hardening
solid metals by creating the perfect amount of disorder is achieved through a
process of heating and quenching called annealing.

The new class of five-metal carbides takes this idea to the next level.
Jettisoning any reliance on crystalline structures and bonds for their
stability, these materials rely completely on disorder. While a pile of
baseballs won’t stand on its own, a pile of baseballs, shoes, bats, hats and
gloves just might.

The difficulty lies in predicting which combination of elements will stand
firm. Trying to make new materials is expensive and time-consuming. Computing
atomic interactions through first principle simulations is even more so. And
with five slots for metallic elements and 91 to choose from, the number of
potential recipes quickly becomes daunting.

“To figure out which combinations will mix well, you have to do a spectral
analysis based on entropy,” said Pranab Sarker, a postdoctoral associate in
Curtarolo’s lab and one of the first authors of the paper. “Entropy is
incredibly time-consuming and difficult to calculate by building a model atom-
by-atom. So we tried something different.”

The team first narrowed the field of ingredients to eight metals known to
create carbide compounds with high hardness and melting temperatures. They
then calculated how much energy it would take for a potential five-metal
carbide to form a large set of random configurations.

If the results were spread far apart, it indicated that the combination would
likely favor a single configuration and fall apart -- like having too many
baseballs in the mix. But if there were many configurations tightly clumped
together, it indicated the material would likely form many different
structures all at once, providing the disorder needed for structural
stability.

The group then tested its theory by getting colleague Kenneth Vecchio,
professor of NanoEngineering at UC San Diego, to attempt to actually make nine
of the compounds. This was done by combining the elements in each recipe in a
finely powdered form, pressing them at temperatures up to 4,000 degrees
Fahrenheit and running 2000 Amps of current directly through them.

“Learning to process these materials was a difficult task,” said Tyler
Harrington, a PhD student in Vecchio’s lab and co-first author of the paper.
“They behave differently than any materials that we’ve ever dealt with, even
the traditional carbides.”

They chose the three recipes their system deemed most likely to form a stable
material, the two least likely, and four random combinations that scored in
between. As predicted, the three most likely candidates were successful while
the two least likely were not. Three of the four intermediate scorers also
formed stable structures.

While the new carbides are all likely to have desirable industrial properties,
one improbable combination stood out -- a combination of molybdenum, niobium,
tantalum, vanadium and tungsten called MoNbTaVWC5 for short.

“Getting this set of elements to combine is basically like trying to squeeze
together a bunch of squares and hexagons,” said Cormac Toher, an assistant
research professor in Curtarolo's laboratory. “Going on intuition alone, you’d
never think that combination would be feasible. But it turns out that the best
candidates are actually counterintuitive.”

“We don’t know its exact properties yet because it hasn’t been fully tested,”
said Curtarolo. “But once we get it into the laboratory in the next couple of
months, I wouldn’t be surprised if it turned out to be the hardest material
with the highest melting point ever made.”

“This collaboration is a team of researchers focused on demonstrating the
unique and potentially paradigm-changing implications of this new approach,”
said Vecchio. “We are using innovative approaches to first-principles modeling
combined with state-of-the-art synthesis and characterization tools to provide
the integrated ‘closed-loop’ methodology so necessary for advanced materials
discovery.”

This work was supported by the Department of Defense Office of Naval Research
(N00014-15-1-2863, N00014-17-1-2090, N00014-16-1-2583, N00014-17-1-2876).

CITATION: “High-Entropy High-Hardness Metal Carbides Discovered By Entropy
Descriptors,” Pranab Sarker, Tyler Harrington, Cormac Toher, Corey Oses,
Mojtaba Samiee, Jon-Paul Maria, Donald W. Brenner, Kenneth S. Vecchio, and
Stefano Curtarolo. Nature Communications, 2018. DOI:
10.1038/s41467-018-07160-7

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

