

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# President Price Helps Open Renovated Chesterfield Building for Life Science
Research

December 7, 2017 | by Geoffrey Mock

Duke's lease expands university investment in Durham downtown

_From Duke Today  
_

The next large step in Duke and Durham’s partnership for growing research in
the life sciences and technology officially opened this week.

At a ceremony reopening the Chesterfield, a 286,000-square foot property on
Main Street originally built for the manufacturing of Leggett & Myers
cigarettes, Duke President Vince Price joined city and business leaders
celebrating the building’s conversion into a modern facility focusing on life
science research that is likely to produce new products that can directly
benefit society.

Duke is an institutional sponsor of the renovation process and is leasing
about 100,000 square feet in the building for research labs, of which Duke
Engineering faculty will occupy 35,000. Moving into the Chesterfield building
in January 2018 are Mike Lynch (BME), Adam Wax (BME), Ken Gall (MEMS),
Christine Payne (MEMS), David Brady (ECE) and Jeff Glass (ECE), with Jungsang
Kim (ECE) and Ken Brown (ECE) to follow later in the spring. The Chesterfield
building will also feature the BriDGE – a BME start-up incubator envisioned by
BME Chair Ashutosh Chilkoti. The space will support the translation of
research discoveries into entrepreneurial endeavors by providing laboratory
and office space to students, faculty and alumni.

“This historic building, which stood vacant and menacing for decades, today
anchors a thriving innovation and bioengineering community in the heart of
Durham,” Price said at the ceremony. “The research that goes on here – in the
very real estate that once housed the tobacco companies that drove Durham’s
first economic boom – is already helping to revitalize the region and improve
or save countless lives.

“I am very proud that Duke has been a partner and a catalyst in the
development of downtown Durham from the beginning, thanks to the visionary
leadership of Tallman Trask and Scott Selig,” Price said. “We recognize that
our location is one of our great advantages – the resurgence of Durham has
allowed us to forge new partnerships with private sector and non-profit
research organizations, partnerships that are providing new pathways to
commercialization for Duke researchers and faculty.”

The Duke investment in the Chesterfield is part of an overall university
strategy to strengthen Durham as a place for innovation and entrepreneurship.
Nearly 3,500 university employees now work in the downtown area, from Duke
University Press staff at Brightleaf Square to researchers in the Duke
Clinical Research Institute at Durham Centre on Morgan Street.

“The fact is, Duke wouldn’t be Duke without Durham, and Durham wouldn’t be
Durham without Duke,” Price said. “We are so very proud of this city and all
that it has become, and we look forward to a very exciting future here.”

The Chesterfield has been vacant since 1999. It was renovated by Wexford
Science+Technology.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

