

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Chilkoti Named Chair of Duke BME

August 8, 2014

Chilkoti is one of the most recognized researchers in biomedical engineering,
nationally and internationally

Tosh Chilkoti has been named chair of Duke’s Biomedical Engineering
Department, effective August 11, 2014.

Chilkoti, who holds the Theo Pilkington Professorship in Biomedical
Engineering as well as appointments in Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science and Chemistry, is one of the most recognized researchers in the
biomedical engineering field, nationally and internationally. Among his recent
honors are the Pritzker Distinguished Lectureship Award from the Biomedical
Engineering Society, the Clemson Award for Contributions to the Literature
from the Society for Biomaterials, and the Humboldt Senior Researcher Award
from the Alexander Von Humboldt Foundation. He also is one of the most
successful entrepreneurs and prolific inventors at Duke, with many companies
and innovations including an insulin delivery system for diabetics that
reduces injections from once a day to once a week, a point-of-care
immunoassay, and novel nanoparticle delivery systems for cancer therapies.

Chilkoti succeeds Craig Henriquez, who completed his term as chair this
summer. Chilkoti, like Henriquez, is a longtime and dedicated member of Duke’s
Biomedical Engineering Department, having joined the department in 1996. He
has served as director of graduate studies for Biomedical Engineering and as
director of the Center for Biologically Inspired Materials & Material Systems,
as well as an active mentor to both graduate and undergraduate students.

“The excellence and commitment Tosh Chilkoti brings to Duke and the
department, as well as his enthusiasm and new ideas, will serve Duke
Biomedical Enginering well,” said Tom Katsouleas, dean of Duke’s Pratt School
of Engineering. “We are fortunate that Tosh is willing to take on the
challenge of leading one of the best and largest biomedical engineering
programs in the country to new heights. I am grateful that he has reached a
point in his storied career where he is able and willing to direct his
incredible energy and creativity to nurturing the department and all its
constituents, and I’m excited about his ambitious plans to grow and strengthen
the education, research and translational activities for which the department
is known.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

