

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Chiral Ingredients Split Electron Spins in Hybrid Semiconductors

October 13, 2020

Adding left- or right-handed organic molecules to hybrid perovskite
semiconductors may offer a path toward spintronic computing

Materials scientists at Duke Engineering, working with a nationwide group of
collaborators in the Department of Energy-funded "Center for Organic Inorganic
Semiconductors for Energy" (CHOISE), are transforming a class of
semiconductors containing both organic and inorganic components into a
candidate for futuristic “spintronic” computers by introducing chirality into
their structure.

Derived from the ancient Greek word for handedness, the term chiral simply
refers to structures that are similar, but that can’t be translated or rotated
to match each other. Take your hands, for example. When placed one on top of
the other, your left hand does not fit on top of your right hand, even though
they’re otherwise identical structures.

Known as hybrid organic-inorganic perovskites or HOIPs for short, the
semiconductors featured in the demonstration have traditionally been popular
targets for light-based devices such as solar cells and light-emitting diodes
(LEDs).

The hybrid organic-inorganic piece of the name refers to combining the
strengths of organic and inorganic materials. Organic materials have more
desirable optical properties and may be bendable, but can be ineffective at
transporting electrical charge. Inorganic structures, on the other hand, are
typically better at conducting electricity and offer more robust mechanical
strength.

The final piece of the puzzle, perovskite, refers to the material’s specific
atomic structure, no matter which elements are part of the recipe. And because
these crystals or films can be structurally complex, researchers are combining
their organic and inorganic components in well-ordered layers, which makes
their frameworks and resulting properties somewhat easier to rationalize.

In a new paper published on September 24 in _Nature Communications_ ,
researchers demonstrate the first members of this class of hybrid
semiconductors in which a targeted chiral molecule transfers its “handedness”
from the organic molecule to the inorganic part of the structure and also show
that this transfer enables control over the spin-related character of the
semiconductor electronic bands.

“Building the HOIP with a layer of chiral cations, which can either be left-
or right-handed, breaks the symmetry of the surrounding inorganic framework of
the material,” said David Mitzi, the Simon Family Distinguished Professor of
Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science at Duke. “This provides a
‘handle’ to tailor the spin states within the material.”

While this discovery is fascinating on its own, it also leads to the
possibility of using these types of materials in electrical devices. Depending
on the chirality of the organic molecule used, the material will favor the
transport of electrons with one type of spin or the other, which could enable
so-called spintronic devices.

“By breaking the structural symmetry within the inorganic layers, we brought
about a phenomenon known as Rashba-Dresselhaus spin-splitting,” said Manoj
Jana, a materials science post-doctoral researcher at Duke and first author of
the paper. “This is not a very common phenomenon, and is especially rare in
this class of materials called HOIPs.”

In the new paper, rather than focusing on how these materials create
electricity with light, the researchers use their structural characterization
techniques and advanced computational models to understand how the HOIPs
interact with electrons based on the direction of their spin. They show that
when the organic component of the material is made from a selected chiral
molecule, the surrounding inorganic framework also becomes chiral, connecting
the spatial direction in which an electron is transported to its spin
direction. This phenomenon, Rashba-Dresselhaus spin-splitting in the inorganic
framework, can have implications for spintronic devices, including spin field-
effect transistors and spin-Hall devices.

In traditional electronics, information is transported, stored, and
manipulated based on the movement of the charge of electrons. This requires a
substantial amount of energy and produces a lot of heat. Alternatively,
spintronics creates 1s and 0s by manipulating the spins of stationary
electrons. Devices using such a setup would have better signal speeds and
require less power because the spin is the signal rather than the charge.

While chiral organic molecules have been introduced into perovskites
previously, the structural transfer of chirality from organic to inorganic
components has not been studied. And while spin-splitting has long been
demonstrated in two-dimensional electron gases, semimetals and metals, the
ability to control this effect in HOIPs has remained elusive.

With this demonstration, the researchers hope to advance one possible path
toward such devices.

“The materials used for the first hybrid perovskite solar cells were invented
in the 1970s by a German laboratory that just wanted to study their properties
to see what they could do,” said Volker Blum, associate professor of
mechanical engineering and materials science at Duke, who led the
computational modeling side of the research. “It wasn’t until 40 years later
that someone got the idea to use them for a solar cell. In many ways, that’s
what we’re doing here with chiral induced spin selectivity.”

This work was supported by the Department of Energy (DE-AC36-08G028308, DE-
AC02-06CH11357, AC02-05CH11231) and the National Science Foundation
(DMR-1729297).

“Organic-to-inorganic structural chirality transfer in a 2D hybrid perovskite
and impact on Rashba-Dresselhaus spin-orbit coupling.” Manoj K. Jana, Ruyi
Song, Haoliang Liu, Dipak Raj Khanal, Svenja M. Janke, Rundong Zhao, Chi Liu,
Z. Valy Vardeny, Volker Blum & David B. Mitzi. _Nature Communications_ ,
volume 11, Article number: 4699 (2020). DOI: 10.1038/s41467-020-18485-7

## Related News

October 08, 2018

### Supercomputer Predicts Optical and Thermal Properties of Complex Hybrid
Materials

October 23, 2014

### Mitzi Awarded SunShot Initiative Funding to Improve Thin-Film Solar Cell
Materials

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

