

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# From Chopsticks and Cardboard to Functioning Prototype

December 14, 2020

Resourceful undergraduates dove into a Bass Connections project aiming to
improve GI health, designing an automated test strip dispenser for their team

When first-year student Bryent Takayama received a care package from home,
flush with packaged curry noodles and other delicious treats, he never guessed
the food packaging would become part of a lo-fi product prototype for waste
sampling—but weird times call for weird measures.

“We’ve made it work, given the circumstances,” Takayama said. “We’ve had to do
a lot of figuring things out on our own—being creative, using whatever
resources we have around us.”

Takayama, who plans to study electrical and computer engineering, and teammate
Alina Suarez, a computer science major, are part of a Duke program called Bass
Connections that supports interdisciplinary research teams as they work to
address global problems. The two students are working on the effort to develop
a Smart Sampling Toilet, a project led by electrical and computer engineer
Sonia Grego, which aims to capture some of the health information that’s lost
with the waste we flush away.

Suarez said she applied to Bass Connections from a desire for a deep research
experience this year. “I was looking through the Bass Connections projects and
this one really stood out to me. I have ulcerative colitis myself, which is a
gastrointestinal disease,” she said. “All through high school I worked closely
with the Crohn’s and Colitis Foundation of America, raising money and raising
awareness of inflammatory bowel diseases. I thought this would be a cool way
to continue my impact with this community—it’s a large and growing group of
people that would benefit so greatly from this.”

To advance the project, Suarez and Takeyama worked on a device that can
dispense Fecal Immunochemical Test (FIT) strips and expose them to human
excreta. After the sample is collected on the strip, the device sends a signal
to an integrated endoscopic camera, telling it to capture an image of the test
results—one line if the sample is negative for biomarkers indicating possible
gastrointestinal disease, and two lines if it is positive.

Takayama’s early curry noodle container-and-chopsticks prototype was the
starting point for many further iterations on the design. “The most valuable
thing I’ve learned is that even when you really think something you’ve
designed is going to work, you have to test it,” said Suarez. “Sometimes you
think it’s definitely going to work, you try it, and it totally fails. Every
time we’ve tested our device we’ve found a new problem that we never would
have been able to anticipate.”

One early idea—a spring-driven dispenser—sent the strips flying off course.
(“Alina had the great idea of just flipping it over and letting gravity drive
the process,” said Takayama. “Simplicity was the way to go.”)

But the device still needed a component to keep the test strip in place, so
Suarez set up shop in the Innovation Co-Lab, 3D printing and an automated door
that closes as a test strip develops and jumps open when the strip is ready to
be discarded. Meanwhile, Takayama curtained the bottom bunk of his dorm room
in blankets to test what lighting levels would be optimal for the endoscopic
camera’s images.

Duke ECE professor and chair Krishnendu Chakrabarty, who is contributing his
expertise in data analytics for image classification to this Bass Connections
project, saw one virtual presentation from the team and was impressed not only
with the progress the team had made, but also with Takayama’s resourcefulness.
“Under his bed, Bryent had attached the endoscope with tape onto a water
bottle that served as a stand, and angled it to have all the components within
the field of vision. He had to crawl under the bed a few times to adjust the
angle and setup and then add the buffer solution to begin testing. It was an
amazing setup and demo,” said Chakrabarty. “After all, necessity is the mother
of invention.”

For Takayama, the experience of collaborating with seasoned researchers in his
first year of school was a memorable one. “As a freshman, I had very low
expectations of being accepted into Bass Connections, and I was really
grateful to become a part of the team,” he said. “We were urged to design
something from zero—to make progress from nothing. And I got to collaborate
with great students. It was really special.”

Get Involved

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

