

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Chris Monroe: Realizing Ion-Trap Quantum Computers to Solve Unsolvable
Problems

August 20, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

An international leader in quantum computing, architect of the U.S. National
Quantum Initiative, and member of the National Academy of Sciences, Chris
Monroe will join longtime long-distance collaborators at Duke to build
practical quantum computers for use in fields from finance to pharmaceuticals

Chris Monroe, one of the world’s leading experts in trapping atoms and
manipulating their quantum state for applications in quantum information
science, has joined the faculty at Duke University. With a dual appointment in
the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering and the Department of
Physics, Monroe joins longtime collaborators Jungsang Kim and Kenneth Brown on
a formidable—and fast-growing—team focused on the outrageously ambitious task
of engineering the world’s first practical quantum computer.

## Christopher R. Monroe

Professor of Electrical & Computer Engineering and Physics (January 1, 2021)

**Co-Founder (with Duke’s Jungsang Kim), Chief Scientist and Former CEO, IonQ,
Inc.**

**Member, National Academy of Sciences  
Architect of the U.S. National Quantum Initiative**

**Hometown:** Detroit, Michigan

**Alma Maters:** MIT, University of Colorado

“The one quality I see at Duke that is unique is the ability of this whole
campus to rally around a singular idea and really go after it,” said Monroe,
who comes to Duke from the University of Maryland – College Park. “We won’t
only propel Duke to the top of quantum computer science and technology, we
will do it in a way that nobody else is doing.”

At Duke, Monroe, Kim, Brown and recently hired faculty members Marko Cetina
and Crystal Noel in Physics and ECE will accelerate their push to develop
practical quantum computer systems based on ion-trapping technology. Their
approach, which has attracted more than $100 million in research funding from
the Federal government alone over the past dozen years, has long been a player
in the race to realize reliable, scalable quantum computing; in 2015 Kim and
Monroe launched a startup based on the technology, IonQ, that has attracted
more than $80 million in investor funding.

With Monroe’s arrival at Duke, the team plans to launch the Duke Quantum
Center to accelerate their progress and build custom quantum computers to
solve specific research challenges, such as modeling complex molecules for new
materials or forecasting the impacts of climate change. To be housed in the
Chesterfield Building in downtown Durham, the hub will launch in the 2020-2021
academic year.

“We’re on the verge of creating a quantum system that people can actually use
on a regular basis,” said Monroe. “Our goal is to build these systems in a new
user facility that can provide researchers with regular, dependable access to
these capabilities. Getting actual people to use quantum computers for
different projects is the only way we’re going to be able to figure out the
fields in which these computers can have the most impact.”

In the classical computers that people use every day, information is stored as
bits in transistors as either a “1” or a “0” and must be manipulated
sequentially. In quantum computers, information is stored in components called
“qubits” that, thanks to quantum mechanics, can be both a 1 and a 0 at the
same time. With multiple qubits, the number of possible values grows
enormously, allowing a quantum computer to process huge amounts of information
in ways that are impossible using a classical computer.

This is only true, however, for certain problems that sample a huge number of
configurations and converge to a single solution. For straightforward tasks
such as the trajectory of a cannonball, a quantum computer wouldn’t likely
compete with a classical computer. But for problems such as determining which
set of 1,000 variables minimizes an equation or what shape a complex molecule
will take due to its atomic dynamics, a quantum computer could succeed where a
traditional computer could never even sniff at the answers.

## Why Duke?

> “The unique ability of the entire campus to rally around a singular idea and
> really go after it.”
>
> —Chris Monroe

Years before Monroe even dreamed of building quantum computers, he began his
career manipulating individual atoms. After earning his bachelor’s degree in
physics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, he worked on his
doctoral thesis at the University of Colorado, Boulder. In the laboratory of
future Nobel laureates Carl Wieman and Eric Cornell, Monroe learned emerging
techniques for creating super-cold states of matter. He then took that
training and applied it to entangling atoms to make better atomic clocks at
the National Institute of Standards and Technology under another future Nobel
laureate, David Wineland.

After theoretical research suggested that a computer that harnesses the power
of quantum mechanics could potentially solve unsolvable problems such as
factoring numbers and breaking codes, Monroe realized that he was basically
already working with a very simple version of a quantum computer. He struck
out on his own to pursue the physics that would make more complex designs
possible, joining the faculty at the University of Michigan in 2000 and the
University of Maryland – College Park in 2007.

It was around this time that Monroe realized that, while he was making steady
progress on the physics required to power a quantum computer, he was going to
need help putting the physics into practice. He needed an engineer.

That engineer turned out to be Jungsang Kim, professor of electrical and
computer engineering at Duke, who has been collaborating with Monroe for over
two decades.

“Jungsang started looking at this technology from an engineering perspective,
which was really attractive to me because that’s the side that I knew little
about,” said Monroe. “The two of us remain complementary in many ways, but we
see the same endgame, and that’s why our collaboration has been so
successful.”

Since 2009, Monroe, Kim and their colleagues have raised more than $100
million from government sources to pursue quantum computers based on trapped
ion technology. In 2015, as Monroe puts it, the two joined hands, leaped off
of a cliff and founded IonQ to pursue commercialized versions of their
technology.

But they weren’t alone. Industry giants including Microsoft, IBM and Google
also began pursuing quantum computing technologies, but through different
means. Their technologies use superconducting solid-state circuits that are
controlled electronically. IonQ is the first company pursuing ion trap quantum
computing systems, although Honeywell has recently started a notable effort.
Trapped ion qubits are produced by stripping an atom of a single electron,
giving it a positive electric charge so that it can be suspended in a vacuum,
cooling it to ultra-low temperatures with lasers and manipulating it with
additional laser controllers.

“The solid state systems used by most other researchers are further along in
terms of the number of qubits they’re using and the interface that allows
researchers to actually use them,” said Monroe. “But their technology has
inherent limitations that are already holding them back. I believe they will
eventually decide that our technology is really the future of quantum
computing. They’ve had a 75-year head start on engineering their systems,
while we are just beginning.”

For the past few years, Duke has been building its expertise in this realm of
quantum technology, hiring collaborators Ken Brown and Iman Marvian. With the
addition of Monroe, Cetina, Noel, and others to come, Duke is poised to lead
the way into our quantum future, integrating physics, chemistry, engineering,
computer science and mathematics in ways nobody else is doing. “While we will
start with trapped ion qubits at the very bottom, the Duke Quantum Center will
have a keen eye on integrating new qubit technologies into our systems in
coming years,” notes Monroe.

Through this concentrated effort, Monroe envisions building multiple quantum
computing systems in the Chesterfield Building, each more advanced and
tailored to specific tasks than the last. As he puts it, the group will look
to implement a more vertical strategy in the field than they have in the past,
integrating the engineering of new computers, control systems, software, user
interfaces and field testing.

“Right now it takes an average of 18 months between a researcher inquiring
about using our systems to us designing a circuit that can carry out their
idea to publishing a paper on the experiment,” said Monroe. “We’d like to get
that down to weeks or months and build multiple systems and qubit technologies
that are tailored for specific applications.”

Besides realizing these ambitious goals, Monroe will also be tasked with
classroom teaching duties that he sees as critical to maintaining a connection
to students and also keeping up to speed with fundamentals. Having focused his
energies in three different areas—research, building a company from the ground
up and advocating for the National Quantum Initiative in Washington DC—Monroe
looks forward to growing his research group at Duke, contributing to a world-
class research center for quantum information technology, and also teaching
undergraduates in areas ranging from Quantum Physics 101 to The Physics of
Music.

## Related News

August 07, 2018

### Duke to Lead $15 Million Program to Create First Practical Quantum
Computer

July 28, 2017

### IonQ Raises $20M to Advance Quantum Computing for Commercial Applications

June 08, 2017

### From the Abacus to Supercomputers to Quantum Computers

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

