

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Chris Lam Brings Engineering Expertise to Global Health

October 18, 2017

The BME PhD student and DGHI doctoral scholar has a passion for engineering
medical devices to influence global health outcomes

_This feature was originally published by theDuke Global Health Institute_

Chris Lam, a biomedical engineering PhD student and DGHI doctoral scholar from
Cincinnati, Ohio, has a passion for engineering medical devices to influence
global health outcomes. His work over the course of several years spent at the
Duke Global Health Institute (DGHI) has contributed to the development of a
device that may change the way cervical cancer is diagnosed around the world.

#### THE MSC-GH PROVIDED VALUABLE TRAINING AND MENTORING

Lam entered the doctoral program after completing his Master of Science in
Global Health with DGHI in 2012. As a visiting scholar at The George Institute
for Global Health, his master’s research measured the effectiveness of a low-
sodium dietary salt substitute in reducing hypertension in Tibetan elderly.
The results of the study suggest that the salt substitute could be part of a
cost-effective regimen to reduce hypertension.

Global health professors Svati Shah and Lijing Yan provided tremendous
mentorship and support to Lam during his three-month long fieldwork experience
in China. “The rigorous epidemiology and statistical training I received
during my master’s training has been really useful for my dissertation data
analysis,” Lam said. “I’ve even been able to share that training with other
students in my lab.”

#### LAM DRAWN TO INTERSECTION OF ENGINEERING AND GLOBAL HEALTH

Lam was initially drawn to the field by a friend’s passion for global health,
which piqued his interest in exploring how engineering could integrate with
global health to improve health outcomes for people all over the world. A
master’s class, Global Health Challenges, taught by professor Chris Woods,
opened Lam’s eyes to the breadth of the field. “It got me thinking about how
engineering could be applied to develop solutions for these issues,” he
shared.

Additionally, Lam has been a teaching assistant for five semesters of
professor of the practice Robert Malkin’s Design for the Developing World
class. In this position, he mentors students as they design medical devices
for use in low-resource settings.

#### LAM WORKING ON GROUNDBREAKING CERVICAL CANCER SCREENING DEVICE

Currently, Lam is pursuing a PhD in biomedical engineering, working in the lab
of biomedical engineering and global health professor Nimmi Ramanujam, where
he conducts dissertation research for the design, development and enhancement
of the Pocket Colposcope. Lam’s research has been primarily focused in Durham,
Haiti, Peru, Kenya and Tanzania.

The Pocket Colposcope is a handheld device for cervical cancer screening that
promises to do away with uncomfortable speculums and high-cost colposcopes.
The device itself is a slender, tampon-like wand that can connect to many
devices, including laptops or cell phones, and holds the potential to change
the way cervical cancer screening is conducted.

“I’m really interested in developing low-cost, optics-based technologies for
the detection and diagnosis of cancer,” said Lam. “I wasn’t sure I would be
able to find a PhD project and lab that would let me meld my mutual interests
in global health and biomedical engineering like [Ramanujam’s] has.”

He added, “I’ve been really fortunate to have an amazing environment of post-
doctoral students, fellow graduate students, undergraduate students and staff
members working on the cervical cancer screening project.”

#### LAM RECALLS FAVORITE DGHI COURSE

Lam appreciates the broad range of courses he’s taken through DGHI and how
they have impacted him as a researcher. One of his favorites was “Introduction
to mHealth,” taught by DGHI research scholar Lavanya Vasudevan.

“It related well with my research,” said Lam. “The class was really useful as
we were trying to develop a smartphone and tablet app to interface with the
Pocket Colposcope.”

#### LAM STILL HAS CLOSE TIES WITH DGHI

Last year, Lam was selected as a DGHI doctoral scholar, a program geared
toward PhD candidates with a substantive interest in global health. Doctoral
scholars receive funding from DGHI and mentorship from global health faculty
members, develop a global health-related dissertation and become involved in
DGHI's intellectual community.

The long-term connections Lam has formed at DGHI have proven invaluable to
him. “DGHI has provided me with a support network of like-minded graduate and
professional students. They’ve created a very collaborative and
interdisciplinary atmosphere that has really helped my research project move
forward.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

