

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Cicadas Get a Jump on Cleaning

April 29, 2013 | by Richard Merritt

Duke researchers have figured out one of the mysteries surrounding these
bulging red-eyed insects — namely how they keep their wings clean

As cicadas on the East Coast begin emerging from their 17-year slumber,
researchers at Duke University and James Cook University have figured out one
of the mysteries surrounding these bulging red-eyed insects -- namely how they
keep their wings clean.

The researchers have shown that dew drops can be beneficial not only in
cleaning cicada wings, but other water-repellant surfaces. On these so-called
superhydrophobic surfaces, dew drops “jump” by themselves, carrying away the
contaminants.

A team led by Chuan-Hua Chen, Alfred M. Hunt Faculty Scholar and assistant
professor of mechanical engineering and materials science at Duke’s Pratt
School of Engineering, demonstrated that tiny particles such as pollen can be
removed from cicada wings by a phenomenon he has described as jumping
droplets. When growing dew drops coalesce together, the merged drop jumps off
water-repellant surfaces. The jumping motion is automatic, powered entirely by
the surface energy initially stored in the dew drops.

“The ability of water-repellant surfaces to self-clean has conventionally been
attributed to rain droplets picking up dirt particles,” Chen said. “For this
conventional wisdom to work, rainfall must be present and the orientation has
to be favorable for gravity to effectively remove the rain droplets. These
limits severely restrict the practical use of self-cleaning superhydrophobic
surfaces.”

“We have found, however, that the self-propelled jumping motion of the dew
drops is very effective in dislodging contaminating particles, regardless of
the orientation,” Chen said. “These new insights can help guide the
development of man-made surfaces that are not dependent on any external forces
and are therefore truly self-cleaning.”

The results of Chen’s research were published online in the journal
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. Katrina Wisdom, a Duke
undergraduate and a Pratt Research Fellow in Chen’s lab at the time of this
study, was the paper’s co-first author. Read more about her **here**.

Cicadas are flying insects typically a few inches long. The most common
species emerge on a yearly basis, with some U.S. species emerging every 17
years. When they dig out from underground as nymphs they molt, shedding their
skin to reveal their wings. They then take flight as full-grown cicadas,
spending the next four to six weeks flying around searching for and attracting
mates with their distinctive song. After depositing eggs in the ground, the
cicadas die and cycle begins anew.

Cicada wings are characterized by rows and rows of tiny bumps or domes of
various heights and widths (like upside-down ice cream cones, with the conical
tips projecting upward). When a water droplet lands on this type of surface,
it only touches the points of the bumps, creating pockets of air underneath
the droplet. The droplet is kept aloft by this cushion of air, much like a
puck in an air-hockey game.

Using a specially designed high-speed video imaging system, the engineers
captured the jumping water droplets on a cicada wing, as well as the
associated self-cleaning processes.

“Most cicadas are unable to clean their own wings because of their short
appendages,” said Gregory Watson of James Cook University. “Furthermore, these
insects commonly live in areas where there is little rain over an extended
period of time. However, the areas are humid, which provides the tiny dew
droplets needed to ‘jump clean’ their wings.”

“These findings point to an alternative route to achieve self-cleaning which
is fundamentally different from the conventional wisdom involving rolling or
colliding droplets on a superhydrophobic surface,” Chen said. “Self-cleaning
surfaces using the jumping-drop mechanism can work at any orientation, which
is a huge advantage for applications with unfavorable orientations with
respect to gravity, such as mobile electronics and building roofs.”

Chen’s research is supported by the National Science Foundation, the Defense
Advanced Research Projects Agency and the North Carolina Space Grant. Other
members of the team were Duke’s Xiapeng Qu and Fangjie Liu, as well as James
Cook’s Jolanta Watson.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

