

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Class of 2023 A. James Clark Scholars Arrive at Duke

September 12, 2019

Ten engineering students from seven states were selected for competitive
scholarship program focused on leadership, service and entrepreneurship

It was a week before orientation for all first-year students at Duke, and 10
new engineering students were in a campus conference room discussing what to
do after being buried underground in an earthquake.

Marcus Ortiz, of El Paso, Texas, suggested a strategy: that the group first go
through a list of potential actions and strike out those that they would
surely not do. First on the reject list: lighting candles.

As Himani Bhat of Pfafftown, North Carolina, noted, at the start they had been
told there might be natural gas leaks.

Of course, it wasn’t a real earthquake, but a tabletop scenario facilitated by
David Pittman, Duke’s senior director of student life. The students were the
newest A. James Clark Scholars at the Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering.

The goal of the earthquake simulation was less about what to do in a disaster
and more about helping the students learn more about each other’s leadership
and teamwork skills.

The session was just one part of a week-long pre-orientation program of
workshops and small-group activities designed to help the scholars learn more
about themselves, build resilience, and create the foundations of a supportive
community among their group.

The A. James Clark Scholars Program, funded through a $15 million investment
from the A. James & Alice B. Clark Foundation, expands access to Duke’s
nationally-recognized engineering education and seeks to create a new
generation of engineering leaders with a focus on engineering, business,
leadership and community service.

Over four years, each scholar receives support to help offset loans, work-
study, and summer earnings requirements. This support allows each scholar the
freedom to participate in unpaid service, extracurricular activities,
internships and the creation of their own venture.

A signature component of Duke Engineering’s initiative to encourage an
entrepreneurial mindset among all its undergraduate students, the Clark
Scholars program at Duke offers students personal mentoring, enrichment
opportunities, and a focused summer program in entrepreneurship and
management.

“Ten Clark Scholars are selected each year based on financial need, academic
accomplishment, engagement in engineering and leadership skills,” said William
F. Walker, director of the A. James Clark Scholars Program at Duke and the
Mattson Family Director of Entrepreneurship at Duke Engineering. “We have an
outstanding class once again this year, and I’m really looking forward to
working with them throughout their time here at Duke.”

The incoming class—the second group of Clark Scholars at Duke—includes
students from seven states with a wide range of achievements and aspirations,
including inventing improved robotic prostheses, working in Silicon Valley and
making an impact on global health.

The Class of 2023 Clark Scholars at Duke are:

  * **Himani Bhat** of Pfafftown, N.C.
  * **Sarah Cornerstone** of Dallas, Texas
  * **Devin Ellis** of Hampton, Va.
  * **Teya Evans** of Auburn, Wash.
  * **Tevyn Fudge** of Newnan, Ga.
  * **Alexa Goble** of Hendersonville, N.C.
  * **Tristin Morse** of Sarasota, Fla.
  * **Gloria Odenyo** of Clinton, Md.
  * **Marcus Ortiz** of El Paso, Texas
  * **Jessica Wey** of McAllen, Texas

Duke is a member of a Clark Scholars network that includes students from The
George Washington University, Georgia Tech, Johns Hopkins University, The
University of Maryland, University of Pennsylvania, Stevens Institute of
Technology, Vanderbilt University, The University of Virginia, and Virginia
Tech.

## More

  * Find scholar bios at **clarkscholars.duke.edu/scholars**
  * Learn more about how Duke prepares engineers who are inspired and equipped
    to solve complex societal problems at **pratt.duke.edu/inspiring**
  * Visit the A. James & Alice B. Clark Foundation at
    **clarkfoundationdc.org**

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

