

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Class of 2025 A. James Clark Scholars Welcomed to Duke Engineering

August 16, 2021 | Mark Schreiner

Outstanding students from eight states, D.C., and Ghana selected to join
scholarship program focused on leadership, business, service, and
entrepreneurship

Duke's Pratt School of Engineering welcomed 10 outstanding first-year
university students from eight U.S. states, the District of Columbia, and
Ghana to join its student body as the latest group of A. James Clark Scholars.

The A. James Clark Scholars Program, funded through a $15 million investment
from the A. James & Alice B. Clark Foundation, expands access to Duke's
nationally recognized engineering education. It seeks to create a new
generation of engineering leaders focusing on engineering, business,
leadership, and community service.

The group is the fourth Clark Scholars class admitted to Duke. Next May will
see the first graduation of Clark Scholars from Duke.

The Class of 2025 group arrived on campus in early August, and completed their
week-long pre-orientation program virtually. After fall 2021 classes begin in
late August, this new group will be welcomed into the new Wilkinson Building,
which contains a dedicated meeting space for Duke's Clark Scholars.

"It is so exciting to welcome these amazing young leaders and aspiring
engineers to the Clark Scholars program, Duke Engineering and Duke
University," said William F. Walker, director of the Clark Scholars program at
Duke and the Mattson Family Director of Entrepreneurship at Duke Engineering.
"As our fourth group, they represent a milestone moment. We now have Clark
Scholars studying in each year of Duke's undergraduate program."

Each year, Clark Scholars are selected based on financial need, academic
accomplishment, engagement in engineering and leadership skills. The rigorous
selection process included an essay on leadership challenges tackled and
lessons learned.

As just one example, Bright Aboah related in his essay that he is known in his
neighborhood in Accra, Ghana, as "MiStereoB"—Mister Stereotype Breaker.
Powered by a conviction to become both a great footballer and an engineer, he
used his technical skills to repair damaged mini-goalposts and applied
insights from trigonometry to develop new and advantageous plays. Those
innovations inspired more.

"We won many matches through my techniques," Aboah wrote. "Other teammates who
saw me merging engineering and soccer got inspired and began using their other
passions to help build the team."

Over their undergraduate years at Duke, each Scholar receives support to help
offset loans, work-study, and summer earnings requirements. This support
allows each Scholar, in addition to their studies, to participate in unpaid
service, extracurricular activities, internships and the creation of new
ventures.

The program is a signature component of Duke Engineering's initiative to
encourage an entrepreneurial mindset among all its undergraduate students.

Scholars join classmates from engineering and across Duke in participating in
courses, workshops, advising from experts and other opportunities offered
through Duke EngEn, the Duke Engineering Entrepreneurship initiative.

The Clark Scholars experience at Duke begins before the general new student
orientation. During the week of August 9, the newest Clark Scholars assembled
on campus for a five-day pre-orientation.

During the week, dubbed "Pre-O," the 10 students met with Duke faculty and
staff experts on building personal resilience and wellness and understanding
learning and leading styles. The plan included personality and talent
assessments, building community with their fellow Clark Scholars, learning
more about the Duke campus and a visit to downtown Durham.

The Class of 2025 A. James Clark Scholars at Duke are:

  * Bright Aboah—Accra, Ghana
  * Adam Ebrahim—Hoover, Ala.
  * Leonardo Gutierrez—Fairfax, Va.
  * Emma Maddock—Winston-Salem, N.C.
  * Jauvon Martin—Washington, D.C.
  * Kaelyn Pieter—Irvine, Calif.
  * Fernando Rodriguez Leal—Brooklyn, N.Y.
  * Jennifer Shoemaker—Clover, S.C.
  * Holden Tabije—Matawan, N.J.
  * Lena Wang—Perry Hall, Md.

Duke is a member of a Clark Scholars network of 11 universities, including The
George Washington University, Georgia Tech, Johns Hopkins University,
Pennsylvania State University, Stevens Institute of Technology, University of
Maryland, University of Pennsylvania, Vanderbilt University, Virginia Tech and
the University of Virginia.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

