

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Coaches Help Staff and Students ‘Get Off the Hamster Wheel’

March 8, 2023

Three Duke Engineering staffers earned certifications to provide health and
well-being coaching

Health and Well-being Coaching is a new service available to staff and
students in the Pratt Community. This mode of coaching helps people think
about and articulate their vision for optimal health and create goals that
guide them toward their desired state.

Three Duke Engineering staff members—Bridget Fletcher, Danielle Giles and
Bridget Kerwin—are certified through Duke Integrative Medicine as health and
well-being coaches. Fletcher offers to coach staff, and Kerwin offers coaching
to students. Giles serves PhD students in BME.

The three answered questions about the service, why it’s important, and how
they expect it to benefit the community:

* * *

Why offer health and well-being coaching as a service?

**Fletcher:** A lot of what I have done over my 15 years at Pratt has been
student-focused support, particularly regarding acclimation for Chinese
students.

As I transitioned professionally from someone supporting studentsto supporting
the people who were supporting the students, I began thinking more about these
kinds of roles and how challenging they are.

Now, as the managing director of graduate student programs and services, I
oversee a team of 24 people, and I find myself thinking a lot about how best
to create a work environment that really taps into their pool of expertise to
further the important work they’re doing but also allows them room to take
care of themselves.

Health and well-being coaching seemed like a great way to do that.

**Kerwin:** I think health and well-being coaching compliments the many
support resources that are available to students here at Duke. I meet with a
lot of students who are struggling to make progress toward their goals; they
feel really stuck.

That is not always something to turn to CAPS for—if students need counseling
or the help of an academic advisor, we can absolutely direct them toward those
services.

The coaching process is different; it allows students the space to explore
their own vision and then develop strategies to move toward a desired outcome

* * *

Please share something you learned as you progressed through the year-long
certification process.

**Giles:** I realized the power of active listening and asking open-ended
questions.

Previously, I had aimed to help students solve their problems and suggest
ideas for solutions. The training emphasizes that students are the experts in
their own lives.

By asking the right questions, I can pull the thread as an idea develops into
a goal they are excited about. Once the goal is established, then I can help
them to break it down into bite-sized, attainable steps.

After I completed the Duke certification, I decided to sit for the National
Board Certification, which requires 50 coaching sessions. While conducting
sessions and studying for the exam, I was able to sharpen my skills and deepen
my understanding of what our students are looking to get out of coaching
sessions.

Listening with an open mind and providing non-judgmental support are key. _  
_

**Fletcher:** For me, in trying to be helpful and encouraging, I was doing a
lot of cheerleading—“Oh, that’s awesome! Good plan!” And that’s not what
you’re supposed to do.

I got a lot of feedback on how to be supportive without ascribing a value
judgment. That was something I needed to learn about.

* * *

What kinds of challenges do people bring to the sessions?

**Kerwin:** Sometimes it’s very defined. Other times it is not. Sometimes
people just have a feeling that something is “off.” They don’t feel how they
want to feel.

In these cases, we can do a personal health inventory, which helps them
determine what area they might want to focus on. Maybe they think they’re
having time management problems, but then they discover they’re feeling
stressed because they’ve lost their support network.

It can be a really powerful process leading to those discoveries.

  
**Fletcher:** Sometimes it’s very specific things, like 'I want to change the
way I’m eating' or 'I know I’m really stressed out by my super messy closet
because it causes me to struggle in the morning trying to figure out what to
wear.'

Creating a SMART goal—Specific, Measurable, Attainable, Realistic and
Timely—that they can work toward helps them get off the hamster wheel or stops
them from feeling like they’re on autopilot.

They can step into their life and consciously choose to do things that make
them feel better and healthier.

* * *

What does a successful session look like?

**Giles:** In a productive session, I will guide a student to pinpoint their
focus so we can dig into the changes they want to make.

Sometimes a student may come in overwhelmed and unsure of where to start,
particularly if they’re fixating on a long-term goal that seems impossibly far
away. My role is to support them in identifying exactly what they want to
discuss and then exploring their feelings and ideas within this focus area. As
the session progresses, they’re able to home in on a specific goal and then
create an action step they’re eager to tackle.

By the time we’re wrapping up, physical cues such as relaxed shoulders and a
smile signal to me that the student is empowered with a positive outlook.

**Kerwin:** When a student says they have felt heard and they walk away with a
realistic action plan.

As coaches, we have an opportunity to guide individuals through a very
personal process. For someone to be heard in a nonjudgmental way is sometimes
what has been missing, as is that important action plan! Additionally, if we
successfully manage our role, they can use the very same process during any
stage of their life when they are facing an obstacle or working toward a goal.

This is not only helpful now, but through the many changes they will face as
their life continues beyond Duke.

* * *

If someone is interested in coaching, either in a microsession or in a small
group, how can they learn more?

  * **Staff** : Email Bridget Fletcher
  * **Students** : Email Bridget Kerwin
  * **BME PhD students** : Email Danielle Giles, or schedule a session
    directly through her _Booking_ link

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

