

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Controlling Genes with Light

February 9, 2015 | By Ken Kingery

Light-activated genes might be precisely controlled and targeted

Duke University researchers have devised a method to activate genes in any
specific location or pattern in a lab dish with the flip of a light switch by
crossing a bacterium’s viral defense system with a flower’s response to
sunlight.

With the ability to use light to activate genes in specific locations,
researchers can better study genes’ functions, create complex systems for
growing tissue, and perhaps eventually realize science-fiction-like healing
technologies.

The study was led by Charles Gersbach, assistant professor of biomedical
engineering at Duke University, and published on February 9 in Nature Chemical
Biology.

“This technology should allow a scientist to pick any gene on any chromosome
and turn it on or off with light, which has the potential to transform what
can be done with genetic engineering” said Lauren Polstein, a Duke PhD student
and lead author on the work. “The advantage of doing this with light is we can
quickly and easily control when the gene gets turned on or off and the level
to which it is activated by varying the light’s intensity. We can also target
where the gene gets turned on by shining the light in specific patterns, for
example by passing the light through a stencil.”

The new technique targets specific genes using an emerging genetic engineering
system called CRISPR/Cas9. Discovered as the system bacteria use to identify
viral invaders and slice up their DNA, the system was co-opted by researchers
to precisely target specific genetic sequences.

The Duke scientists then turned to another branch of the evolutionary tree to
make the system light-activated.

In many plants, two proteins lock together in the presence of light, allowing
plants to sense the length of day which determines biological functions like
flowering. By attaching the CRISPR/Cas9 system to one of these proteins and
gene-activating proteins to the other, the team was able to turn several
different genes on or off just by shining blue light on the cells.

“The light-sensitive interacting proteins exist independently in plants,”
explained Gersbach. “What we’ve done is attached the CRISPR and the activator
to each of them. This builds on similar systems developed by us and others,
but because we’re now using CRISPR to target particular genes, it’s easier,
faster and cheaper than other technologies.”

Gersbach envisions a wide range of potential applications for the new light-
activated, gene-regulating system.

Researchers could tightly and precisely control the level of a gene’s activity
from its natural position in the chromosomal DNA, which would allow them to
get a more accurate interpretation of the gene's role. The light-induced
system could also provide more control over how stem cell cultures
differentiate into various types of tissues. And by creating different
patterns of gene expression, Gersbach hopes the system can be used in tissue
engineering.

“One of the limitations of tissue engineering right now is that typical
methods make a chunk of bone, cartilage or muscle, but that’s not what tissues
look like naturally,” said Gersbach. “There are several cell types mixed
together, gradients of tissues between interfaces, and blood vessels and
neurons that penetrate through them. We want to spatially control where
different tissues get made in a cell population, and that way create multi-
tissue constructs that potentially better represent normal physiology.”

And then there’s a more futuristic idea of how light-induced genetic
engineering could be applied.

“It’s possible to illuminate cells through the skin and control what they’re
doing, like growing blood vessels or regenerating tissues,” said Gersbach.
“Far, far down the road, you could envision the type of device you’d see on
Star Trek where you wave a flashlight over a wound and it heals. Obviously
that’s not currently possible, but this type of technology that creates much
better control over biological systems could move us in that direction.”

This work was supported by a National Institutes of Health Director’s New
Innovator Award (DP2OD008586); National Science Foundation Faculty Early
Career Development Award (CBET-1151035); National Institutes of Health grants
R01DA036865, NIH R03AR061042 and NIH P30AR066527; and an American Heart
Association Scientist Development Grant (10SDG3060033).

# # #

CITATION: "A light-inducible CRISPR-Cas9 system for control of endogenous gene
activation," Lauren R Polstein, Charles A Gersbach. Nature Chemical Biology,
February 9, 2015. DOI: 10.1038/nchembio.1753

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

