

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Jumping Droplets Whisk Away Hotspots in Electronics

April 3, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

New technology adds a third dimension to cooling modern electronics

Engineers have developed a technology to cool hotspots in high-performance
electronics using the same physical phenomenon that cleans the wings of
cicadas.

When water droplets merge, the reduction in surface area causes the release of
a small amount of energy. So long as the surface beneath is hydrophobic enough
to repel water, this energy is sufficient to make the merged droplet jump
away.

On the wings of cicadas, this phenomenon drives droplets to catch and remove
particles of dirt and debris. In the new cooling technology created by
engineers at Duke University and Intel Corporation, droplets jump toward
hotspots to bring cooling where the electronics need it most.

The results appear online on April 3, 2017, in the journal Applied Physics
Letters.

“Hotspot cooling is very important for high-performance technologies,” said
Chuan-Hua Chen, associate professor of mechanical engineering and materials
science at Duke. “Computer processors and power electronics don’t perform as
well if waste heat cannot be removed. A better cooling system will enable
faster computers, longer-lasting electronics and more powerful electric
vehicles.”

The new technology relies on a vapor chamber made of a super-hydrophobic floor
with a sponge-like ceiling. When placed beneath operating electronics,
moisture trapped in the ceiling vaporizes beneath emerging hotspots. The vapor
escapes toward the floor, taking heat away from the electronics along with it.

Passive cooling structures integrated into the floor of the device then carry
away the heat, causing the water vapor to condense into droplets. As the
growing droplets merge, they naturally jump off the hydrophobic floor and back
up into the ceiling beneath the hotspot, and the process repeats itself. This
happens independent of gravity and regardless of orientation, even if the
device is upside-down.

The technology has many advantages over existing cooling techniques.
Thermoelectric coolers that act as tiny refrigerators cannot target random
hotspot locations, making them inefficient for use over large areas. Other
approaches can target moving hotspots, but require additional power inputs,
which also leads to inefficiencies.

The jumping-droplet cooling technology also has a built-in mechanism for
vertical heat escape, which is a major advantage over today’s heat spreaders
that mostly dissipate heat in a single plane.

“As an analogy, to avoid flooding, it is useful to spread the rain over a
large area. But if the ground is soaked, the water has no vertical pathway to
escape, and flooding is inevitable,” said Chen. “Flat-plate heat pipes are
remarkable in their horizontal spreading, but lack a vertical mechanism to
dissipate heat. Our jumping-droplet technology addresses this technological
void with a vertical heat spreading mechanism, opening a pathway to beat the
best existing heat spreaders in all directions.”

There is still much work to be done before Chen’s jumping droplets can compete
with today’s cooling technologies. The main challenge is to find suitable
materials that work with high-heat vapor over the long term. But Chen remains
optimistic.

“It has taken us a few years to work the system to a point where it’s at least
comparable to a copper heat spreader, the most popular cooling solution,” said
Chen. “But now, for the first time, I see a pathway to beating the industry
standards.”

This work was supported by Intel Corporation and the National Science
Foundation (CBET-12-36373, DMR-11-21107, DGF-11-06401).

“Hotspot cooling with jumping-drop vapor chambers,” Kris F. Wiedenheft, H.
Alex Guo, Xiaopeng Qu, Jonathan B. Boreyko, Fangjie Liu, Kungang Zhang, Feras
Eid, Arnab Choudhury, Zhihua Li and Chuan-Hua Chen. Applied Physics Letters,
2017. DOI: 10.1063/1.4979477

###

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

