

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Single-Photon Detector Can Count to Four

December 15, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

Quantum information scientists teach an old detector a new trick previously
believed impossible

Engineers have shown that a widely used method of detecting single photons can
also count the presence of at least four photons at a time. The researchers
say this discovery will unlock new capabilities in physics labs working in
quantum information science around the world, while providing easier paths to
developing quantum-based technologies.

The study was a collaboration between Duke University, the Ohio State
University and industry partner Quantum Opus, and appeared online on December
14 in the journal Optica.

“Experts in the field were trying to do this more than a decade ago, but their
back-of-the-envelope calculations concluded it would be impossible,” said
Daniel Gauthier, a professor of physics at Ohio State who was formerly the
chair of physics at Duke. “They went on to do different things and never
revisited it. They had it locked in their mind that it wasn’t possible and
that it wasn’t worth spending time on.”

“When we presented our data, world experts were just blown away,” continued
Jungsang Kim, professor of electrical and computer engineering at Duke. “It’s
neat having a group like ours that got started a bit later decide to try
something because we didn’t have any blinders on.”

The discovery deals with a new method for using a photon detector called a
superconducting nanowire single-photon detector (SNSPD).

At the heart of the detector is a superconducting filament. A superconductor
is a special material that can carry an electric current forever with zero
losses at low temperatures. But just like a normal piece of copper wire, a
superconductor can only carry so much electricity at once.

A SNSPD works by charging a looped segment of superconducting wire with an
electric current close to its maximum limit. When a photon passes by, it
causes that maximum limit in a small portion of the wire to drop, creating a
brief loss of superconductivity. That loss, in turn, causes an electrical
signal to mark the presence of the photon.

In the new setup, the researchers pay special attention to the specific shape
of the initial spike in the electrical signal, and show that they can get
enough detail to correctly count at least four photons traveling together in a
packet.

“Photon-number-resolution is very useful for a lot of quantum
information/communication and quantum optics experiments, but it’s not an easy
task,” said Clinton Cahall, an electrical engineering doctoral student at Duke
and first author of the paper. “None of the commercial options are based on
superconductors, which provide the best performance. And while other
laboratories have built superconducting detectors with this ability, they’re
rare and lack the ease of our setup as well as its sensitivity in important
areas such as counting speed or timing resolution.”

For other labs to make use of the discovery, all they would need is a specific
type of amplifier for boosting the SNSPD’s tiny electrical signal. The
amplifier must work at the same low temperatures as the SNSPD -- minus 452
degrees Fahrenheit -- to reduce background noise. It also must have wide
bandwidth to avoid distorting the signal. Such amplifiers are already
commercially available and many labs have them.

The results will allow researchers around the world working in quantum
mechanics to immediately gain new abilities with their existing equipment. As
one example, the Duke-Ohio State group also recently reported how using the
timing of incoming photons in addition to their quantum states could greatly
increase the speed of quantum encryption techniques.

The team is now working to optimize their setup to see just how far they can
stretch its abilities. They believe with the right electronics and a bit of
practice, they could count 10 or even 20 photons at a time. The group has also
filed for a patent to create off-the-shelf devices based on their method.

The research was supported by the Office of Naval Research (N00014-13-1-0627)
and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NNX13AP35A).

“Multi-Photon Detection using a Conventional Superconducting Nanowire Single-
Photon Detector.” Clinton Cahall, Kathryn L. Nicolich, Nurul T. Islam, Gregory
P. Lafyatis, Aaron J. Miller, Daniel J. Gauthier, and Jungsang Kim. Optica,
2017. DOI: 10.1364/OPTICA.4.001534

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

