

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Simple pH Adjustment May Enable a Preventative COVID-19 Nasal and Throat
Spray

January 7, 2022 | By Ken Kingery

Higher pH makes a common metabolic inhibitor medication practical for nose and
throat spray applications against COVID-19

Mechanical engineering and materials science professor David Needham has shown
that a slight increase in solution pH might be all it takes to turn a
metabolic inhibiting drug, traditionally used to treat gut parasites, into a
promising prophylactic/preventative nasal spray and early treatment throat
spray for COVID-19.

The results appeared online on December 28 in the journal Pharmaceutical
Research.

Since 1958, niclosamide has been used to treat gut parasite infections in
humans, pets and farm animals. Delivered as oral tablets, the drug kills the
parasites on contact by inhibiting their crucial metabolic pathway and
shutting down their energy supply.

In recent years, however, researchers have been testing niclosamide’s
potential to treat a much wider range of diseases, such as many types of
cancer, metabolic diseases, rheumatoid arthritis and systemic sclerosis.
Recent laboratory studies in cells have also shown the drug to be a potent
antiviral medication, inhibiting a virus’s ability to cause disease by
targeting the energy supply of the host cell that the virus co-opts for its
self-replication.

Niclosamide primarily acts upon host cell’s mitochondria, which are like
energy-producing batteries of the cell. The drug prevents the cell from
producing its main energy molecule, adenosine 5'-triphosphate, or ATP. Without
the infected cell’s energy supply, the virus has trouble replicating viable
copies of itself to cause further infections. These effects are reversible and
do not result in any cell death.

“Niclosamide turns down the dimmer switch on a cell’s energy and essentially
puts the virus in lockdown,” said Needham, the sole author of the new study.
When used in conjunction with vaccines, masking and other recommended
mitigation measures for COVID prevention, the new niclosamide solution holds
potential as an adjunct strategy, he said. “This development could enable safe
and effective nose and throat sprays that provide additional protection behind
the mask.”

## Pivoting During a Pandemic

In an ongoing collaboration with Will Eward, a surgical oncologist at Duke,
Needham had already shown that niclosamide has activity in bone cancer in mice
and dogs when made into a nanoparticle that essentially, as he says, “makes
the drug look like the cancer’s food.” In another collaboration with Christina
Barkauskas, assistant professor of medicine in Pulmonary Medicine at Duke,
they were starting preliminary studies on potentially using the same
niclosamide formulation for lung fibrosis when the pandemic hit.

Like many researchers worldwide, Needham switched gears to COVID-directed
studies. After a Korean paper screening existing drugs for efficacy against
COVID-19 identified niclosamide as a potential target, he spent the next year
researching a range of solution, nanoparticle and microparticle formulations.
The Korean studies in animal cells showed that it only took a low
concentration of niclosamide before infection to completely stop the SARS-
COV-2 virus from replicating.

The animal cells being used, however, are extremely hardy and durable. To find
out how effective and tolerable niclosamide might be for human use to fight
COVID-19, Needham and Barkauskas turned to cells that were more pertinent to
the initial nasal and bronchial infection—respiratory epithelial cells—and
engaged other clinical researchers at Duke.

Without live virus to test with, the researchers focused on measuring how much
niclosamide reduces human airway cells’ levels of ATP. Based on the Korean
study’s ATP-to-viral-inhibition measurements, Patty Lee, professor of
medicine, cell biology and pathology at Duke, and her postdoc Sojin Kim, found
that just a few micromolar concentration of the drug can lower ATP levels
enough to potentially cut virus reproduction completely without harming the
cells themselves.

These studies were, however, conducted on cells submerged in cell culture
media, which slows the rate at which niclosamide is absorbed and can act in
the cells. In further benchtop cell studies with Barkauskas and Zach Kelleher,
a laboratory technician in her lab, the researchers focused on human airway
cells treated with just the buffered niclosamide solution. Funded by a grant
from the American Lung Association, the study suggests that even lower doses
are enough to positively affect airway cells.

But all three of these studies don’t take the mucus into account.

## The Need for Reformulation

Traditional allergy medicines such as Flonase and Nasonex carry roughly 6,000
to 30,000 times more of their respective active ingredients in solution than
would be needed to affect cells in benchtop studies. This is because only a
small amount of the active drug actually makes it past the protective layer of
mucus constantly covering the backs of peoples’ noses and throats.

Niclosamide, however, is not easily dissolved into water-based liquids that
can be sprayed into a person’s nose and mouth. The drug’s normal attainable
solution concentration at a nasal pH of around 6 or 7 is close to, or even
less than, what the benchtop studies suggest is required to stop the virus
from replicating in cells without protective mucus.

Based on calculations of how molecules like niclosamide diffuse through a thin
layer of mucus, Needham estimates that a solution concentration that is about
10 times greater than that typically attainable is needed to produce a
functioning prophylactic and treatment spray, and that it can get through the
mucus layer in a matter of milliseconds.

The question for Needham was, then, how to get to that concentration.

## Adjusting the pH

In the new paper, Needham demonstrates that simply raising the alkalinity of
the solution might be enough to get through the mucous barrier and into the
cells where a COVID-19 infection first takes hold. He found that raising the
solution’s pH to a slightly alkaline pH of 8.0—acceptable for a nasal
spray—can dissolve enough niclosamide to meet the requirement of his
calculations. And raising the pH to 9.2, which is still tolerable for a throat
spray, beats that benchmark by 10 times more and could be used in early
infection.

While promising, Needham notes, these results still need to be tested in cells
actually infected with the virus, as well as in such cells protected by a
mucus layer, which requires finding partner labs and agencies with the
required biocontainment resources and live virus.

A protocol to make liter-sized batches that can be filled and sealed in
sterile-capped, 10mL vials has already been developed in the Duke compounding
pharmacy by Vincent Gaver, clinical research pharmacist, and Beth McLendon-
Arvik, director of Investigational Drug Services. And in his new patent
application, Needham also described a method for extracting niclosamide from
commercially available tablets into the solution without using organic
solvents.

“Because it works on the cells rather than the virus, niclosamide could
function as a respiratory viral prophylactic agent, not just against the
coronavirus and all of its variants, but against any new virus as well,”
Needham said. “While vaccines are clearly effective, a nasal preventative
would provide added protection. And even if an infection has already taken
hold, this formulation could be used as an early treatment throat spray that
could stop the viral load heading toward the lungs that causes the disease’s
most devastating effects.”

Needham has already filed a patent application and is actively seeking
industry, government and infectious disease institute partners to help pursue
clinical trials and commercialization.

CITATION: “The pH Dependence of Niclosamide Solubility, Dissolution, and
Morphology: Motivation for Potentially Universal Mucin-Penetrating Nasal and
Throat Sprays for COVID19, its Variants and other Viral Infections,” David
Needham. Pharm Res, 2021. DOI: 10.1007/s11095-021-03112-x

Patent Application: “NICLOSAMIDE NASAL AND THROAT SPRAY” Inventor, David
Needham, PCT/US21/72303

# # #

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

