

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# CRISPR Treats Genetic Disorder in Adult Mammal

January 4, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

Duke University researchers deliver gene-editing system to mouse model of
Duchenne muscular dystrophy

Researchers have used CRISPR to treat an adult mouse model of Duchenne
muscular dystrophy. This marks the first time that CRISPR has successfully
treated a genetic disease inside a fully developed living mammal with a
strategy that has the potential to be translated to human therapy.

Researchers from Duke University had previously used CRISPR to correct genetic
mutations in cultured cells from Duchenne patients, and other labs had
corrected genes in single-cell embryos in a laboratory environment. But the
latter approach is currently unethical to attempt in humans, and the former
faces many obstacles in delivering treated cells back to muscle tissues.

Another approach, which involves taking CRISPR directly to the affected
tissues through gene therapy techniques, also faces challenges, particularly
with delivery. In the new study, Duke University researchers overcame several
of these obstacles by using a non-pathogenic carrier called adeno-associated
virus, or AAV, to deliver the gene-editing system.

The paper appears on December 31, 2015 in Science.

“Recent discussion about using CRISPR to correct genetic mutations in human
embryos has rightfully generated considerable concern regarding the ethical
implications of such an approach,” said Charles Gersbach, associate professor
of biomedical engineering at Duke University. “But using CRISPR to correct
genetic mutations in the affected tissues of sick patients is not under
debate. These studies show a path where that’s possible, but there’s still a
considerable amount of work to do.”

Duchenne muscular dystrophy is caused by problems with the body’s ability to
produce dystrophin, a long protein chain that binds the interior of a muscle
fiber to its surrounding support structure. Dystrophin is coded by a gene
containing 79 protein-coding regions, called exons. If any one exon gets a
debilitating mutation, the chain does not get built.

Without dystrophin providing support, muscle tends to shred and slowly
deteriorate.

Duchenne affects one in 5,000 newborn males. Most patients are wheelchair-
bound by age 10 and don’t live beyond their 20s or early 30s. The mutation is
on the X chromosome so female children with two X chromosomes should have at
least one functioning copy of the gene.

Gersbach has been working on potential genetic treatments for Duchenne with
various gene-altering systems since starting his lab at Duke in 2009. His lab
recently began focusing on CRISPR/Cas9—a modified version of a bacterial
defense system that targets and slices apart the DNA of familiar invading
viruses.

While Gersbach has had success in cultured patient cells by using a jolt of
electricity to punch holes in their membranes to deliver the CRISPR system,
this strategy was not practical in a patient’s muscle tissues.

“A major hurdle for gene editing is delivery. We know what genes need to be
fixed for certain diseases, but getting the gene editing tools where they need
to go is a huge challenge,” said Chris Nelson, the fellow in Gersbach’s
laboratory who led the work. “The best way we have to do it right now is to
take advantage of viruses, because they have spent billions of years evolving
to figure out how to get their own viral genes into cells.”

Nelson and Gersbach began working on packaging gene editing tools into AAV—the
most popular virus for delivering genes today. They were assisted through
collaborations with AAV experts Aravind Asokan, associate professor at the
University of North Carolina – Chapel Hill School of Medicine, and Dongsheng
Duan at the University of Missouri School of Medicine. Duan also provided
significant expertise from a long history of work on gene therapy for
neuromuscular disorders.

To use viruses as delivery vehicles for gene therapy, researchers take all the
harmful and replicative genes out of the virus and put in the therapeutic
genes they want to deliver. While early virus types didn’t work well for
various reasons, such as integrating into the genome and causing problems or
triggering immune responses, AAV thus far has proven special. It’s a virus
that many people are exposed to anyway and is non-pathogenic, but still
exceptionally effective at getting into cells.

AAV is in use in many late-stage clinical trials in the United States, and has
already been approved for use in one gene therapy drug in the European Union.
There are also different versions of AAV that can preferentially go to
different tissues, such as skeletal and cardiac muscle, so researchers can
deliver them systemically.

But there’s always a catch, and for Gersbach it was a matter of size.

“AAV is a really small virus and CRISPR is relatively large,” said Gersbach.
“It simply doesn’t fit well, so we still had a packaging problem.”

The solution came from Feng Zhang, an investigator at the Broad Institute of
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard. Earlier this year,
Zhang described a CRISPR system from a different bacterium than the one
commonly used.

In the natural bacterial immune system, CRISPR is the mug shot that helps
identify the target DNA, and Cas9 is the blade that slices the strands. The
large Cas9 protein typically used by researchers comes from the bacterial
species Streptococcus pyogenes. After scouring the bacterial kingdom, Zhang
discovered the much smaller Cas9 protein of Staphylococcus aureus.

Small enough to fit comfortably inside of AAV.

In the study, researchers worked with a mouse model that has a debilitating
mutation on one of the exons of the dystrophin gene. They programmed the new
CRISPR/Cas9 system to snip out the dysfunctional exon, leaving the body’s
natural repair system to stitch the remaining gene back together to create a
shortened—but functional—version of the gene.

Besides being much easier and more efficient than replacing the dysfunctional
exon with a working copy, simply snipping out the weak link is a strategy that
would be effective in a larger swath of the patient population.

Gersbach and his team first delivered the therapy directly to a leg muscle in
an adult mouse, resulting in the restoration of functional dystrophin and an
increase in muscle strength. They then injected the CRISPR/AAV combination
into a mouse’s bloodstream to reach every muscle. The results showed some
correction of muscles throughout the body, including in the heart—a major
victory because heart failure is often the cause of death for Duchenne
patients.

“There is still a significant amount of work to do to translate this to a
human therapy and demonstrate safety,” said Gersbach. “But these results
coming from our first experiments are very exciting. From here, we’ll be
optimizing the delivery system, evaluating the approach in more severe models
of DMD, and assessing efficiency and safety in larger animals with the
eventual goal of getting into clinical trials.”

The work at Duke was supported by the Muscular Dystrophy Association, The
Hartwell Foundation, the March of Dimes Foundation, the National Institutes of
Health, the Duke-Coulter Translational Partnership, and the Duke/UNC-Chapel
Hill Clinical and Translational Science Awards Consortium.

###

“In vivo genome editing improves muscle function in a mouse model of Duchenne
muscular dystrophy.” Christopher E. Nelson, Chady H. Hakim, David G.
Ousterout, Pratiksha I. Thakore, Eirik A. Moreb, Ruth M. Castellanos Rivera,
Sarina Madhavan, Xiufang Pan, F. Ann Ran, Winston X. Yan, Aravind Asokan, Feng
Zhang, Dongsheng Duan, Charles A. Gersbach. Science, December 31, 2015. DOI:
10.1126/science.aad5143

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

