

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Crushing Cylinders in the Name of Science

January 19, 2023 | By Ken Kingery

Sophomore Sage Cooley gets manuscript accepted in the Philosophical
Transactions of the Royal Society of London by buckling hundreds of 3D-printed
cylinders

Students walking through the basement corridors of Hudson Hall are accustomed
to strange noises. Besides the various laboratories and classrooms dotting the
architecture, the classic red brick hallmark of Duke Engineering was
originally constructed in 1948 and has a living, breathing soundtrack all its
own.

But anybody would still be forgiven for jumping at the sudden bangs
consistently ringing through the hallways on the north side of the basement
for the past year. Reminiscent of a balloon popping or a capped soda bottle
getting run over by a car, the sudden and unexpected auditory assault made by
plastic thin-walled cylinders getting crushed over and over has been a
consistent hallmark of Sage Cooley’s research.

A sophomore majoring in mechanical engineering, Cooley sought out research
opportunities in areas pertaining to the aerospace industry during her first
year on campus. That search led her to Lawrie Virgin, professor of mechanical
engineering and materials science, whose research broadly focuses on studying
the behavior of nonlinear dynamical systems. He suggested, among other
options, a research project investigating the use of 3D printing in
characterizing the behavior of thin-walled cylinders.

More than a year later, that suggestion culminated with Cooley successfully
getting a research paper accepted for publication by the Philosophical
Transactions of the Royal Society of London—the world’s oldest scientific
journal, where Sir Isaac Newton published his first paper in 1672.

“Thin-walled cylinders are simple and commonplace in terms of geometry, but
they’re hard to model,” said Cooley. “If you think of a grain silo, you’ll get
a general idea of the shape. There’s a lot of industries interested in
learning more about their mechanics and behavior, but the easiest to
understand is probably NASA. All of their fuel tanks are essentially thin-
walled cylinders, and they want them to be strong and stable but as thin and
light as possible.”

Historically, the mechanics of these shapes have been studied by cutting the
ends off of mass-produced soda cans or wrapping a thin sheet of metal around a
cylinder and soldering the ends together. But both approaches are time-
consuming and can introduce inconsistencies into the cylinders, and there’s
nothing researchers hate more than uncontrollable inconsistencies.

> “This experience has been really helpful for me to understand how to be more
> resourceful. I didn’t come into it with any special skills, I had to acquire
> them, and I had to ask for a lot of help along the way."
>
> sage cooley

Virgin’s idea was to see if the growing availability of 3D printers might be
able to help push the field forward. Given a few printers and a bit of plastic
printing material, researchers could create an endless supply of identical
cylinders to gather data from. They could also introduce small irregularities
to the designs to test common damages or new designs.

For the past year, Cooley has been putting this idea to the test, routinely
printing new cylinders and slowly crushing them between two metal plates to
record their reactions and buckling thresholds.

“They’re perfectly happy until they suddenly blow in a catastrophic failure,”
Cooley said. “There’s no warping or advance warning. They just make a loud
popping noise in an instant and buckle into a wave-like pattern.”

> “They’re perfectly happy until they suddenly blow in a catastrophic
> failure."
>
> sage cooley

Because the thin plastic is so flexible, the cylinders can then return to
their original shape once the pressure is removed from their ends with little
damage. The flexibility also allowed Cooley to conduct novel experiments on
their stability by slowly poking the dimpled sides of warped cylinders until
their wavy shape realigned into a new pattern.

The paper offers details on Cooley’s experiences using 3D-printed thin-walled
cylinders to conduct this sort of research and concludes that it’s a viable
and valuable approach that others in the field should consider moving forward.
While a valuable contribution to the field, the experience was also a valuable
contribution to Cooley’s engineering education.

“This experience has been really helpful for me to understand how to be more
resourceful. I didn’t come into it with any special skills, I had to acquire
them, and I had to ask for a lot of help along the way,” Cooley said. “But
publishing as a sophomore I would say was kind of a distant dream, so seeing
the entire project progress has been really awesome.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

