

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Crystal Noel: Hot on the Heels of a Long-Lasting Qubit

August 20, 2020 | by Miranda Volborth

As the Duke Quantum Center comes online, Noel is already imagining what we
need to build the next generation of quantum information systems

Crystal Noel will join Duke University’s Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering and Department of Physics and add her experience in quantum error
correction to the rapidly expanding Duke Quantum Center (DQC). Noel will begin
as a research scientist in the summer of 2021 and join the faculty in summer
2022.

Noel has spent the past year as a postdoctoral associate in the lab of
University of Maryland professor Chris Monroe, part of a team building an
IARPA-funded quantum computer system called EURIQA—the Error-corrected
Universal Reconfigurable Ion-trap Quantum Archetype.

## Crystal Noel

Assistant Professor, Electrical and Computer Engineering and Physics (July
2022)

**Hometown:** Alexandria, VA

**Alma Maters:** MIT BS '13 and UC Berkeley PhD '19

**Representative Publication:**
https://journals.aps.org/pra/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevA.99.063427

**Fun Facts:** Serves on an alumnae advisory council that advises officers in
Pi Beta Phi, her college sorority. “I love mentoring officers, helping them
grow into leaders,” said Noel.

Though until recently the members of the DQC team, which include Duke
Engineering’s Jungsang Kim and Kenneth Brown, have been spread across the
eastern seaboard, they shared a single approach to quantum computing—ion
trapping, which uses lasers to cool and manipulate ions held in a chamber
where background gases are lower than in the vacuum of space. In this rarefied
environment, the trapped ions can hold a superposition—a phenomenon of physics
that allows them to exist in two states simultaneously. These kinds of ions
serve as the quantum bits, or qubits, at the heart of EURIQA.

But the tiniest environmental disturbance can cause qubits to toggle on or off
in the middle of calculations.

“If a qubit flips to a zero or a one in the middle of a calculation, that’s an
error,” said Noel. “You have to come up with a protocol by which you can probe
the system, find errors, and fix them. What if I make three copies of the
qubit, and only one flips? Then I know what the error was. But we can’t just
copy a qubit like we would a normal bit. It requires more cleverness in
construction.”

> If one perfects a method that continually corrects the environmental factors
> disrupting a system, said Noel, one could create a qubit with enough stamina
> to complete computing tasks that are exponentially out of reach for current
> computer technologies.

As of now, EURIQA has evolved to the point where the frequent calibrations
needed to keep the system operational are run remotely, leaving Noel more time
to further refine software and work with theorists to imagine the next
generation of quantum computers, whose computational capabilities will
increase exponentially as qubits are added. “We need to think farther ahead,”
said Noel. “As of now there’s no clear picture of how we’re going to go from
20 qubits to 100. How can we do that with smart engineering of the traps
themselves? At this point in the field, it’s more and more important to use
good engineering practices and design for the future.”

The EURIQA system located at the University of Maryland will also relocate to
Duke, serving as the temporary flagship computer of DQC; the center will
feature a user-facing lab where theorists will be able to explore problems far
too complex for a classical computer to handle.

> “DQC will be very different from what is currently offered commercially in
> the Cloud, because we’ll be able to interact with the theorists and
> customize the machine as needed."
>
> Crystal Noel

Noel said the opportunity to be part of the Duke team launching this unique
quantum computing hub was the main motivator for her move. “DQC will be very
different from what is currently offered commercially in the Cloud, because
we’ll be able to interact with the theorists and customize the machine as
needed,” said Noel. “We’re going to be bringing in collaborators right away.
It’s going to be a fast-paced, exciting time, and the collaboration among
experts in a single building is really going to accelerate the research."

## Related News

August 20, 2020

### Chris Monroe: Realizing Ion-Trap Quantum Computers to Solve Unsolvable
Problems

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

