

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Cybersecurity for Autonomous Systems

January 6, 2021 | By Riley Richardson, Class of 2021, NC School of Science and
Math

Miroslav Pajic works on 'assured autonomy' for systems with high-level
autonomy and low human control and oversight

_From the Duke Research Blog_

Over the past decades, we have adopted computers into virtually every aspect
of our lives, but in doing so, we've made ourselves vulnerable to malicious
interference or hacking. I had the opportunity to talk about this with
Miroslav Pajic, the Dickinson Family associate professor in Duke's electrical
and computer engineering department. He has worked on cybersecurity in self-
driving cars, medical devices, and even US Air Force hardware.

Pajic primarily works in “assured autonomy,” computers that do most things by
themselves with “high-level autonomy and low human control and oversight.”
“You want to build systems with strong performance and safety guarantees every
time, in all conditions,” Pajic said. Assured Autonomy ensures security in
“contested environments” where malicious interference can be expected. The
stakes of this work are incredibly high. The danger of attacks on military
equipment goes without saying, but cybersecurity on a civilian level can be
just as dangerous. “Imagine,” he told me, “that you have a smart city
coordinating traffic and that… all of (the traffic controls), at the same
time, start doing weird things. There can be a significant impact if all cars
stop, but imagine if all of them start speeding up.”

Since Pajic works with Ph.D. students and postdocs, I wanted to ask him how
COVID-19 has affected his work. As if on cue, his wifi cut out, and he dropped
from our zoom call. “This is a perfect example of how fun it is to work
remotely,” he said when he returned. “Imagine that you’re debugging a fleet of
drones… and that happens.”

In all seriousness, though, there are simulators created for working on
cybersecurity and assured autonomy. _CARLA_ , for one, is an open-source
simulator of self-driving vehicles made by Intel. Even outside of a pandemic,
these simulators are used extensively in the field. They’ve become very useful
in returning accurate and cheap results without any actual risk, before
graduating to real tests.

“If you’re going to fail,” Pajic says, “you want to fail quickly.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

