

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Test Distinguishes SARS-CoV-2 from Other Coronaviruses with 100% Accuracy

June 25, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

Platform could also predict COVID-19 case severity and immunity against
variants

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have demonstrated a tablet-sized
device that can reliably detect multiple COVID-19 antibodies and biomarkers
simultaneously.

Initial results show the test can distinguish between antibodies produced in
response to SARS-CoV-2 and four other coronaviruses with 100% accuracy.

The researchers are now working to see if the easy-to-use, energy-independent,
point-of-care device can be used to predict the severity of a COVID-19
infection or a person’s immunity against variants of the virus.

Having also recently shown the same “D4 assay” platform can detect Ebola
infections a day earlier than the gold standard polymerase chain reaction
(PCR) test, the researchers say the results show how flexible the technology
can be to adapt to other current or future diseases.

The results appear online on June 25 in Science Advances.

“The D4 assay took six years to develop, but when the WHO declared the
outbreak a pandemic, we began working to compress all of that work into a few
months so we could explore how the test could be used as a public health
tool,” said Ashutosh Chilkoti, the Alan L. Kaganov Distinguished Professor and
Chair of Biomedical Engineering at Duke. “Our test is designed to be both
adaptable and truly point-of-care, and this is clearly a scenario when a
portable, fast and cost-effective diagnostic would be most useful.”

The technology hinges on a polymer brush coating that acts as a sort of non-
stick coating to stop anything but the desired biomarkers from attaching to
the test slide when wet. The high effectiveness of this non-stick shield makes
the D4 assay incredibly sensitive to even low levels of its targets. The
approach allows researchers to print different molecular traps on different
areas of the slide to catch multiple biomarkers at once.

The current iteration of the platform also features tiny patterned tunnels
that use the physics of liquids to draw samples through the channels without
needing any electricity. With just a drop of blood and a drop of biomolecular
lubricant, the test runs autonomously in a matter of minutes and can be read
with a detector roughly the size of a very thick iPad.

“The detector is battery powered and the test doesn’t require any power at
all, so you can throw the whole thing into a backpack and truly test at the
point-of-care with minimal resources,” said Jason Liu, a PhD student working
in the Chilkoti lab who designed and built the detector.

In the current study, the researchers tested the D4 assay’s ability to detect
and quantify antibodies produced against three parts of the COVID-19 virus — a
subunit of the spike protein, a binding domain within the spike protein that
grabs on to cells, and the nucleocapsid protein that packages the virus’s RNA.
The test was able to spot the antibodies in all of the 31 patients tested with
severe cases of COVID-19 after two weeks. It also reported zero false-
positives in 41 samples taken from healthy people before the pandemic started
as well as 18 samples taken from individuals infected with four other widely
circulating coronaviruses.

With the pandemic on the downswing in the United States and hundreds of other
COVID-19 antibody tests in development, the researchers don’t believe this
particular test is likely to be deployed in large numbers. But they say that
the platform’s proven accuracy and flexibility make it a prime candidate for
developing into other types of tests or for use in future outbreaks.

For example, the platform could potentially be able to test whether or not
people have immunity to the various strains of COVID-19 that continue to
emerge.

“There’s lots of questions from people about whether or not they’re protected
from new variants of COVID-19, and our test could answer some of those,” said
Jake Heggestad, a PhD student working in the Chilkoti lab who developed the
chip for the test. “We believe that our platform should be able to distinguish
between whether people have antibodies that can neutralize emerging variants
of concern or if those antibodies aren’t going to be protective against new
variants.”

The researchers are also working to develop the platform into a test for
multiple prognostic markers of COVID-19 that together could indicate whether
or not a patient is likely to have a severe case of the disease.

“We’re platform builders, so we’re working to show ways this technology can be
easily modified to do different things,” said David Kinnamon, a graduate
student who developed the liquid handling system for the test. “We’re showing
this single platform can work as a diagnostic, assess immune response after
infection and predict disease outcome, potentially all at the same time. I
don’t know of many tests that can do that.”

“And it can do all of this on a platform that is super user-friendly and
transportable,” said Heggestad. “It’s one thing to do all of this in a
centralized facility like Duke, but it’s another to be able to do large-scale
testing and get good, sensitive results in remote locations around the world.”

This research was supported by the National Science Foundation (CBET2029361),
the National Cancer Institute (P30-CA014236, R01-CA248491, UH3-CA211232), the
Department of Defense (W81XWH-16-C-0219), Defense Academy of the United
Kingdom (ACC6010469), and the Combat Casualty Care Research Program
(W81XWH-17-2-0045).

CITATION: “Multiplexed, Quantitative Serological Profiling of COVID-19 from
Blood by a Point-Of-Care Test,” Jacob T. Heggestad, David S. Kinnamon, Lyra B.
Olson, Jason Liu, Garrett Kelly, Simone A. Wall, Solomon Oshabaheebwa, Zachary
Quinn, Cassio M. Fontes, Daniel Y. Joh, Angus M. Hucknall, Carl Pieper, Jack
G. Anderson, Ibtehaj A. Naqvi, Lingye Chen, Loretta G. Que, Thomas Oguin III,
Smita K. Nair, Bruce A. Sullenger, Christopher W. Woods, Thomas W. Burke,
Gregory D. Sempowski, Bryan D. Kraft, Ashutosh Chilkoti. Science Advances,
June 25, 2021. DOI: sciadv.abg4901

## Related News

April 07, 2021

### Ultrasensitive, Rapid Diagnostic Detects Ebola Earlier Than Gold Standard
Test

April 27, 2020

### Duke Engineers Adapt Rapid Testing Platform to See If It Can Catch
COVID-19

August 08, 2017

### Inkjet-Printed Tool Enables Sensitive Diagnostic Testing in Point-of-Care
Settings

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

