

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Producing Something Unusual for a Digital Assets Conference: Meaningful
Discussion

February 10, 2023 | By Mark Schreiner

The first Digital Assets @ Duke conference was a first-of-its-kind gathering
of engineers, financiers, investors and public policy experts

With the news often focused only on boom, bust and financial scandal, a unique
conference held at Duke University on January 20-21 produced something unusual
for a review of digital assets—deep, meaningful discussion.

About 200 experts in software engineering, finance and public policy gathered
on Duke’s campus for “Digital Assets @ Duke,” a two-day exploration of digital
assets—intangible constructions of cyberspace that are revolutionizing banks,
businesses and markets in the physical world.

“Duke has a lot to offer society as it works through the opportunities,
benefits and risks posed by digital-asset technology,” said Jerome P. Lynch,
the Vinik Dean of Engineering at Duke. “Here, we have built a
multidisciplinary community of scholars in engineering, law and public policy
that are conducting research, educating undergraduate and graduate students in
fintech, engaging with industry and government, and, with this conference,
providing a forum for constructive interdisciplinary dialogue.”

The conference was sponsored by Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering, including
its FinTech Master of Engineering degree program and Duke’s Financial
Economics Center. The conference was funded with help of corporate sponsorship
provided by Circle, Galaxy, and TRM Labs.

DA@D featured intimate panels of experts, who led the discussions, with deep
insights into issues surrounding digital security, regulation and the future
of the technologies. But importantly, audience members were encouraged to
actively participate by jumping in with questions. This created sustained
dialogue.

“This was the best conference we have attended on the subject of digital
assets,” said Katherine Molnar, chief investment officer of the Fairfax County
(Va.) Police Officers Retirement System. “Many of the speakers corroborated
our underlying thesis that blockchain technology is likely poised for high
growth.”

The setting on Duke’s campus was “much preferable to the big crypto-focused
conferences,” said Corey Then, a Duke Law graduate and vice president of
global policy for Circle, a firm that is expanding the global use of digital
currency for payments. “And I also found it useful that there were so many
Duke faculty and students and others with technical backgrounds there.”

A particular standout feature of the conference was that it brought investors,
entrepreneurs, financiers and university experts together with federal
officials. Discussions explored the sticky issues related to a desire on all
sides for a clear regulatory framework in the United States for digital
assets, cryptocurrencies and related technologies.

Public policy speakers included U.S. Rep. Patrick McHenry of North Carolina,
the chair of the U.S. House Financial Services Committee, Commissioner Hester
Pierce of the U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission, and Commissioner Kristin
Johnson of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.

“The conference was a refreshing start to the new year,” said John Rolle,
governor of the Central Bank of the Bahamas, who spoke during the conference.
“We covered an interesting blend of topics, from discussions of digital
security to sessions on regulation.”

Based on positive feedback and the need for continued constructive discussions
about the technical, financial and public policy implications of these
technologies, there are plans being considered to make the conference a
regular event.

“We wanted to look past the hype and the fixation on prices,” said organizer
Jimmie Lenz, director of the financial technology programs at Duke
Engineering. “We intentionally designed this first-of-its-kind conference to
encourage discussion from all sides. We achieved that and more, way beyond our
optimistic expectations.”

Duke Podcast: Listen to “Coffee & Crypto”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

