

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Dancing Droplets Launch Themselves from Thin Fibers

August 17, 2015 | By Ken Kingery

Droplets flung by hydrophobic material may aid water purification and oil
refining

We’ve all seen dewdrops form on spider webs. But what if they flung themselves
off of the strands instead?

Researchers at Duke University and the University of British Columbia have now
observed this peculiar phenomenon, which could benefit many industrial
applications. As long as the strands are moderately hydrophobic and relatively
thin, small droplets combining into one are apt to dance themselves right off
of the tightrope. The discovery could form the basis of new coalescer
technologies for water purification, oil refining and more.

The findings were reported online on August 14, 2015, in Physical Review
Letters.

“We were studying how insect wings with a hairy structure clean themselves,
and an undergrad Adam Williams saw two droplets merge and suddenly leave a
strand of hair,” said Chuan-Hua Chen, associate professor of mechanical
engineering and materials science at Duke. “Since we couldn’t easily reproduce
the effect, we thought it was just an artifact, perhaps due to the slight
breeze created by the humidifier in the experiment.”

But thanks to some ingenuity from Kungang Zhang, a graduate student in Chen’s
group, they discovered that the “dancing droplets” are real, and are more
likely to propel themselves off of a strand if they merge from opposite sides
-- a finding that allowed the team to study the phenomenon in detail.

As a droplet grows larger, it stores energy on its expanding surface. When two
droplets merge, the mass stays the same, but the surface area decreases. This
causes a small amount of energy to be released. As long as the drops are only
attached to a small solid area, the released energy is enough to fling them
away. This proves true so long as the strand is reasonably hydrophobic, such
as the Teflon-coated fibers in the experiment, and the diameter of the strand
is a few times smaller than that of the droplet.

In previous research, Chen and his team showed a similar self-cleaning method
from the wings of cicadas where droplets could launch themselves from a flat
surface. That surface, however, was super-hydrophobic due to the nanostructure
of the wings.

“In engineering systems, these nanostructures are concerns for reliability,”
said Chen. “Our new finding provides a solution without resorting to these
super-hydrophobic surfaces.”

A potential application of the dancing phenomenon is in water purification
technologies. Current methods use gravity or shearing forces to remove
accumulated droplets from fibrous webs, much like those found on your morning
walk through the woods. If the droplets get too large, however, they can clog
the gaps in the web. But with this new finding, fibrous woven materials could
be engineered with Teflon-like coatings and large enough gaps to never clog
before droplets jump off.

“Before we demonstrated this, people thought you’d never be able to get the
self-propelled phenomenon on a moderately hydrophobic surface,” said Chen.
“But now we’ve shown that you don’t need super-hydrophobicity to get this
dancing effect. All you need are round fibers instead of flat surfaces.”

This work was supported by the National Science Foundation.

###

“Self-Propelled Droplet Removal from Hydrophobic Fiber-Based Coalescers.”
Kungang Zhang, Fangjie Liu, Adam J. Williams, Xiaopeng Qu, James J. Feng, and
Chuan-Hua Chen. Physical Review Letters, 2015. DOI:
10.1103/PhysRevLett.115.074502

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

