

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Identifying the Epigenetic Fingerprints of Weapons of Mass Destruction

September 12, 2019 | By Ken Kingery

$38.8 million DARPA project taps Duke researchers to help develop genetic test
for exposure to weapons of mass destruction

With an unparalleled collection of rare biological samples and expertise in
profiling RNA sequences, Duke University physicians and engineers are playing
a vital role in a major U.S. Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA)
initiative to rapidly screen individuals for exposure to materials associated
with weapons of mass destruction (WMD).

The $38.8-million project, led by Arizona State University, joins a $27.8
project led by Mt. Sinai as one of two national consortiums funded by DARPA’s
new Epigenetic CHaracterization and Observation (ECHO) program.

The end goal of ECHO is to build a field-deployable device that can test small
biological samples—such as a drop of blood or nasal swab—for evidence of
epigenetic “fingerprints” that reveal a detailed history of that individual’s
exposure to dangerous materials or pathogens.

Although an individual’s DNA remains the same over their lifetime, their
environment can affect how his or her genes are expressed, and these changes
leave a lasting imprint on their epigenome—even long after the triggering
event has past. According to DARPA, technology that could rapidly read these
epigenetic signatures could speed up diagnosis and treatment for troops who
may have been exposed to threat agents or who may be suffering from
infections.

In a project dubbed MEMENTO **—** Mapping Epigenetic Memory of Exposure to
Observe **—** Duke has been awarded $6.2 million over the next four years to
help make this idea a reality.

Led by co-principal investigators Xiling Shen, the Hawkins Family Associate
Professor of Biomedical Engineering at Duke, and Christopher Woods, professor
of medicine and global health at Duke and chief of the infectious diseases
section at the Durham VA Medical Center, the project draws on a treasure trove
of rare biological samples to help researchers across the ECHO program
discover specific epigenetic signatures associated with various exposures.

Duke Global Health Institute researchers will also collect a number of new
sample cohorts for use in the DARPA projects to study how epigenetic markers
persist over time. Gayani Tillekeratne, assistant professor of medicine and
global health, will collect samples from subjects with confirmed dengue virus
infection in southern Sri Lanka, where Dharshan de Silva, director and senior
scientist at Genetech Research Institute, will pursue a similar cohort of
subjects with _Burkholderia pseudomallei,_ the cause of melioidosis. Woods
will work with colleagues from Tulane in Sierra Leone to gather specimens from
survivors of the Ebola-like hemorrhagic disease Lassa fever and with UCLA
investigators in the Democratic Republic of Congo to gather samples from
survivors of Ebola outbreaks, including from the very first in 1976.

The resources also include a 20-year historical library of Methicillin-
resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) samples collected by Duke School of
Medicine professor Vance Fowler. Lisa Satterwhite, assistant research
professor of civil and environmental engineering at Duke, will provide samples
from an ongoing program studying the effects of farmworkers’ exposures to
organophosphates, which are used in insecticides and are precursors to nerve
agents used in chemical warfare.

“Our clinical team has an overarching responsibility to design studies and
provide samples to both DARPA projects,” said Woods. “It’s a novel, exciting
program that is looking at epigenetic signatures in both real-time exposures
as well as their evolution over time. And while there’s a clear defense angle
to the work, there’s also a practical clinical understanding that will be
beneficial as well.”

On the engineering side, Duke researchers will use their expertise in three
challenging RNA and epigenetic analysis techniques and machine learning to
identify regions of DNA called enhancers activated by exposure to these
diseases.

While only about one percent of the human genome encodes directions for the
making of proteins, buried within the remaining “dark genome” are regions
called enhancers that can turn on the protein-makers on.

“Enhancers are these control knobs that remotely dial up or down the activity
genes,” said Shen. “Our hypothesis is that these enhancers are most likely
where the epigenetic memories of exposures to harmful agents are kept.”

To get a full picture of DNA activity, Duke researchers are combining three
separate techniques. In Shen's laboratory, research assistant professor
Shengli Ding and PhD student Nick Giroux will perform total RNA sequencing to
discover which segments of the dark genome are active and microRNA sequencing
to reveal molecules released to stop other RNA from delivering their
instructions. Purushothama Rao Tata, assistant professor of cell biology, and
Yoshihiko Kobayashi, postdoctoral associate of cell biology, will perform a
cutting-edge technique named Mint-ChIP to identify sections of DNA packed away
by proteins called histones, allowing researchers to isolate them and remove
the proteins to discover which segments of DNA they were activating or
silencing.

“We have to use all three of these profiling techniques to infer their
activity,” said Shen. “By pursuing a multi-omics approach that compiles a wide
variety of profiling techniques, we can develop a comprehensive signature that
tells us if a person has had a harmful exposure and to what specific agent.”

Other partners in the collaboration will also be analyzing these rare exposure
samples, but through different methods focused on other alterations to the
epigenome and the DNA itself. They will also work with exposures to different
types of WMDs, such as radiation, chemical weapons and explosives.

Once signatures are discovered, partner institutions will begin developing a
compact, lightweight device capable of scanning biological fluids to detect
them.

“The human body registers exposures and logs them in the epigenome,” explained
Eric Van Gieson, the ECHO program manager, in a release announcing the
program. “We are just beginning to understand this rich biographical record
that we carry around with us. We hope that with the capabilities developed
within ECHO, someone in the field will immediately know if a suspected
adversary has handled or been exposed to threat agents. The same technology
could also serve as a diagnostic tool for our own troops, to diagnose
infectious disease or reveal exposure to threat agents, so that medical
countermeasures can be applied in time to make a difference.”

For more information about the ECHO program, read the full announcement from
Arizona State University.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

