

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Data & Decision Sciences

March 28, 2018

By teaching students to leverage statistical analysis to glean useful insights
from complex, real-world datasets, a new course aims to make data competency a
signature strength of every Duke Engineering undergraduate

Imagine what we could do with the streams of data rushing from Fitbits, Nests,
satellites, microscopy, seismic networks, mobile phones, auto dashboards,
credit card purchases and just about every other source of information that’s
captured, tracked and shared.

> “We want our students to really dig into data science. Our goal is for each
> student to emerge with a solid understanding of how to leverage data to
> inform and guide their work as engineers.”
>
> **Stacy Tantum**  
>  Faculty member in Electrical & Computer Engineering

Stacy Tantum wants every Duke engineer to be able to envision the
possibilities—and to turn them into reality.

“With all this rich data, how can we interpret it to learn new things, see
unexpected patterns and make better decisions?” said Tantum, a faculty member
in Electrical & Computer Engineering. “These are skills we want all of our
students to have.”

Toward that end, Duke Engineering has launched a creative new course designed
to give undergraduates a foundation in the  
fast-growing field of data science.

Piloted in spring 2018, “Introduction to Data & Decision Sciences,” led by
Tantum and Duke Mathematics faculty member Paul Bendich, is intended to become
a sophomore-year staple.

With a focus on team-based, authentic problem-solving, the new data course
builds on a highly successful summer program at Duke called “Data+.”

The award-winning program led by the Information Initiative at Duke (iiD)
brings small groups of undergraduates, graduate students and faculty together
to design data-driven solutions to interdisciplinary challenges, most provided
by external clients.

The approach has proven enormously popular, and may even aid recruitment and
retention of students underrepresented in the field, according to iiD director
Robert Calderbank.

“Data+ had over 300 applications last year—over half from women,” he said. “In
a world where women are still pursuing STEM majors at lower rates than men,
that is encouraging.”

Plus, team-based labs that challenge students to solve real-world, potentially
messy challenges, combined with structured teaching, give  
the core concepts a kind of “stickiness” that by-the-book approaches just
can’t match, said Tantum.

“We want our students to really dig into data science—to learn to define
problems, determine what data they need to answer questions, explore and
visualize the data using concepts from probability and statistics,” Tantum
said. “Our goal is for each student to emerge with a solid understanding of
how to leverage data to inform and guide their work as engineers.”

“Comfort with data will be an integral skill for engineers of the future,”
added Ravi Bellamkonda, Vinik Dean of Engineering. “We see Duke as the place
that will lead the way.”

## Data on Data-Science Education @ Duke

### 1 Gold Award

Duke’s Data+ program took home gold in the 2016 Reimagine Education global
competition recognizing “projects that enhance learning and employability and
are both innovative and scalable”

### $9.75 Million in Philanthropic Support

for the Information Initiative at Duke will endow new professorships, graduate
fellowships in engineering, and educational programs on data-driven
problemsolving, both in the classroom and in the field

### Duke Graduate Students Have Led 43 'Data Expeditions'

in undergraduate courses—pop-up, hands-on projects on topics from analyzing
international carbon dioxide emissions to applying linear algebra to autism
detection in infants

### 30+ Partners

from industry, government and nonprofits have collaborated with the
Information Initiative at Duke on research, workshops, internships and other
hands-on learning for students

### 71 Undergraduates & 23 Graduate Students

teamed with faculty to conduct 25 real-world, data-driven research projects
through Duke’s Data+ program in 2017

Watch the Video

Read more about Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate research experience
»

Read more about Duke Engineering's ambitious initiatives in data science
education & research »

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

