

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Designed for Women, by Women

May 7, 2020 | Miranda Volborth

In ECE capstone course, a team designs a smart sports bra in partnership with
Garmin

From Duke Engineering’s first capstone design class in wearables, led by
electrical and computer engineering professor of the practice Rabih Younes,
came an impressive collection of futuristic clothing and accessories:
construction work gloves that use sensors to detect studs and live wires, a
shirt that vibrates with varying intensity to help people with visual
impairments sense how far they are from obstacles, and a boot with automated
heating/cooling and inflation/deflation capabilities, to aid treatment after a
foot or ankle injury.

Another team took on a real-world client: Garmin, a leading designer and
manufacturer of GPS products whose product lineup includes a large array of
wearable fitness trackers. The team of three women—Samantha Archer, Sarah
Bland and Mary Stuart Elder—all describe themselves as athletic and belong to
the segment of potential customers who might buy and wear fitness trackers
with extra features, like heart rate monitoring.

The thing is, heart rate monitors are most accurate when placed on your chest,
but nothing currently on the market seemed to meet women’s needs. “What we
found was that none of us were enticed by the chest-based heart rate monitor
that many companies offer—it’s not comfortable for women to wear a sports bra
that’s already tight, and then have to fit the monitor underneath it,” said
Archer.

> The team decided to focus on turning a sports bra into a comfortable,
> accurate fitness tracker.

When the team decided to focus on turning a sports bra into a comfortable,
accurate fitness tracker, Garmin asked them to meet two broad goals: prove
that the form factor of a chest-based monitor could work to monitor heart rate
accurately, and add a new feature that would be compatible with Garmin’s
existing product line.

The team surveyed more than 60 women to see what kinds of features they were
most interested in. Some of them, like cadence monitoring and running
dynamics, were already included in Garmin products. One—posture
detection—wasn’t, and the team thought they could achieve it by adding an
accelerometer.

They designed a sensor array mounted on a silicone band, which attaches
securely to the wearer’s bra with magnets, and named the product
“Heartbreakers,” which Elder said imbued the product with a sense of
empowerment. (It also gave the team a chuckle to have hidden "her bra" in the
name of the product .) But they were challenged to make the wireless
communication work between the sensor and the Garmin interface.

“The watches need a very specific type of wireless communication, to allow our
product to talk to their watch,” explained Elder. “It was very different from
using something like an Arduino, which is ready to be used out of the box and
has numerous libraries to reference.”

> Students and professors alike had to figure out how to work within the new
> parameters mandated by physical distancing.

Thankfully, the team solved most of its communication issues before spring
break—a time that will be remembered by many students, especially graduating
seniors, as both a line of demarcation separating “normal life” from an
extended period lived mostly at home, and a time of intense reorganization,
when students and professors alike had to figure out how to work within the
new parameters mandated by physical distancing.

For Bland, it meant cutting a road trip short to return to retrieve the team’s
box of physical components from campus before access was curtailed and
adopting a new role within the team: hardware lead, a role that had originally
belonged to Archer. Tri-weekly Scrums moved to Zoom, and the team relied on
Git to allow everyone to work on the coding aspect of the project from her own
space. With technical support from Archer and Elder, Bland poured silicone and
tested the prototype from her new lab—her Houston kitchen.

> With technical support from Archer and Elder, Bland poured silicone and
> tested the prototype from her new lab—her Houston kitchen.

During the team’s final virtual presentation to the Garmin team, the students
showed how the product they had designed could attach securely to the bra and
continue to work during a period of sustained movement. Additionally, they
demonstrated that the accelerometer-based posture monitor they had added to
meet Garmin’s Goal 2—added functionality—could work to give the user feedback
on her posture as she completed one of two yoga poses.

“It’s a proof of concept, the idea being that posture detection could be added
to any exercise that Garmin currently supports,” said Archer. “A user could
download an exercise routine to her watch and get feedback to improve her
posture as she completes it.” Younes noted that the functionality could also
be a good fit for applications like physical therapy.

“They certainly exceeded my expectations,” said Software Engineering Team
Leader Travis Jones, who was the Duke’s team’s main point of contact at
Garmin. “I thought their project was an ambitious one and that the likely
outcome was separate components that worked but needed to be integrated. Even
when working across three states, the team was able to put together a complete
product that demonstrated the key principles of their vision.”

> "Even when working across three states, the team was able to put together a
> complete product that demonstrated the key principles of their vision.”
>
> Travis Jones, Software Engineering Team Leader, Garmin

All three women agreed that working on an all-female team to design a product
specifically for women was a blast.

“There are fewer women than men in ECE, so it’s rare to work with all women in
a project group like this,” said Archer. “Also, it was very cool that we got
to implement something that we felt pretty motivated by—the fact that we were
a team of women designing a product for women was something that we really
enjoyed. It was a once-in-a-Duke-career kind of opportunity.”

As seniors, the three students did not take the new first-year design course
that is now required for all Duke engineers. “I’m going into software—I’m
CS/ECE—so lots of times I don’t feel like a ‘real’ engineer because I don’t
really build things. I’m mostly coding,” said Bland. “So it was neat to have
the opportunity to build something with sensors and wires. I’m really happy
that before I graduate I had the fulfilling experience of creating something
from scratch.”

More News

## Related News

May 05, 2020

### Undergrads Go the Distance to Design for Garmin

September 12, 2018

### Rabih Younes: Integrating Machine Learning with Motion-Capturing Wearable
Devices

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

