

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Developing Biomaterial Implants to Improve Human Health

June 1, 2021 | Elizabeth Witherspoon

Duke materials scientists combine engineering and medicine to treat bone
injury, disease, pain and more

A

n injectable that prompts bone regeneration. A biodegradable patch inside a
surgical wound that relieves pain. A 3D-printed replacement for a crushed
ankle. These sound more like props in a science fiction movie than the
products of present-day engineers.

Yet three faculty members in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical
Engineering & Materials Science at Duke are turning these and other
biomaterial implant projects into realities.

Working at the intersection of engineering and medicine, they are spinning out
state-of-the-art advances and even companies to deliver solutions to unmet
medical needs.

This cutting-edge work includes molecular level technology to activate the
body’s own repair process to heal bone fractures and classical chemistry to
develop specialized polymers to perform precise functions within the body.
Novel structural engineering is combined with materials science to develop
3D-printed lightweight replacements for bones and joints that have the
strength to withstand the powerful forces of walking and running.

In each case they collaborate closely with physicians. They all chose to work
at Duke University specifically because of the ease with which Duke
Engineering and Duke School of Medicine faculty work across disciplines—and
across the street—from one another.

Read more about what these researchers are doing to improve lives:

## Shyni Varghese

Activating Mechanisms to Heal Bone Fractures and Reverse Osteoporosis

_Professor of Biomedical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering & Materials
Science and Orthopaedic Surgery_

W

ith triple appointments in the Departments of Biomedical Engineering,
Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science and Orthopaedic Surgery, Shyni
Varghese pursues research at the nexus of engineering, physical sciences and
medicine. In particular, she conducts basic science research and translates
discoveries into new therapies.

She became Duke University’s first MEDx Investigator when she arrived in 2017
to further work based upon her discovery that adenosine, a biomolecule
produced naturally by the human body, plays a large role in spurring bone
growth. Varghese has since led her group to engineer a bandage for surgeons to
implant at the site of a bone fracture that capitalizes on the body’s
production of adenosine, holding it at the injury site to accelerate the
natural healing process. She has a patent pending for an injectable system for
the same treatment, which would enable primary care physicians and other
healthcare providers to administer the therapy to patients with compromised
bone healing and traumatic injuries.

Further building upon this knowledge, Varghese is also working on a non-
hormonal small-molecule drug that activates the same biochemical receptor to
treat bone loss associated with osteoporosis. Unlike current treatments, which
only slow down bone loss, the drug tested by Varghese’s group has so far shown
in animal studies the ability to reverse it and spur the body to rebuild bone.
Her group has also developed a targeted nanocarrier system to deliver the drug
directly to the bones, which overcomes some of the challenge of adenosine’s
rapid breakdown in the bloodstream and other off-target effects.

Varghese also has research in the pipeline on how to use this therapy to
reduce pain following orthopedic surgery and injuries. The opioid addiction
crisis has driven many researchers to look for alternatives, and Varghese has
found that this therapy activates a pathway that raises the threshold of pain
tolerance.

Other work of her lab includes self-healing hydrogels, which could enable
implants and biomaterials to repair themselves. One specific application the
group is pursuing is self-repairing lubricants to treat joint injuries.

> _“I like to dream and find a solution to things. I need to know ‘Why?’ and
> ‘How?’ I also have a very strong interest in mentoring students.’’_

## Matthew L. Becker

Developing Bioactive Polymers to Address Unmet Medical Needs

_Hugo L. Blomquist Distinguished Professor of Chemistry, Professor of
Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science_

M

atthew Becker is an expert in organic polymer chemistry whose
multidisciplinary research team works at the interface of chemistry, materials
and medicine to develop bioactive polymers to improve human health. A
professor with joint primary appointments in the Departments of Chemistry and
Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science with collaborators in the
Departments of Biomedical Engineering and Orthopaedic Surgery, he both
conducts basic science research and develops functional biomaterials for
translation into clinical applications.

For example, he is currently designing a biocompatible implantable polymer
surgical patch that releases a controlled dose of non-opioid painkillers
directly to the site of a surgical wound and then dissolves slowly. The goal
is to provide localized pain control in the days immediately following
surgery, such as for a hernia or cesarean birth, effective enough to eliminate
the need for opioid pain relievers and their associated systemic side effects
or risk of addiction.

Becker also is developing 3D-printable polymers for clinical applications,
such as implantable mesh used in hernia surgeries. Another project involves
biocompatible resins to provide patient-specific scaffolds for repair of the
cranium (seen left). In addition, he is working on the basic science to
improve the underlying structure of hydrogels for potential use in a wide
range of biomedical implant applications. Plus, he is collaborating with
Joseph Fernandez-Moure, M.D., assistant professor of surgery at Duke School of
Medicine, on an adhesive for injection into broken ribs that would stabilize
them during healing and then slowly be absorbed by the body.

In addition, Becker is collaborating closely with Duke colleague Ken Gall
(below) on advanced manufacturing approaches for specific scaffolds for
repairs across the spectrum of musculoskeletal injuries. Plus, they are
working on artifical intelligence-directed resin design in a new way.

Becker has founded three start-up companies—3D BioResins, 3D BioActives and
Fortem—under the holding company 21st Century Medical Technologies. He was
awarded the 2019 Carl S. Marvel Award in Creative Polymer Chemistry from the
American Chemical Society.

> "I was drawn to working at Duke University because of its proximity to Duke
> Medical School–in mindset as well as physically. The collaborative
> environment here is the best I've ever seen, from sharing ideas to sharing
> resources."

## Ken Gall

Developing Materials and Porous Structures for Medical Implants to Repair
Human Bone and for Other Applications

_Professor of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science_

_Associate Dean for Entrepreneurship, Pratt School of Engineering_

K

en Gall is a serial entrepreneur who has started six companies based upon his
innovations in developing load-bearing materials and 3D structures for medical
implants to support the human skeletal system. Major publicly traded
biotechnology companies have acquired three of these companies—most recently
DJO, a subsidiary of Colfax Corporation (NYSE: CFX), which acquired MedShape,
Inc.—to make these advances even more widely available to patients.

Gall’s research has produced metal alloy implants that have prevented leg
amputation, reconstructed a pelvis ravaged by cancer and restored knees and
ankles that have suffered severe traumatic injury.

He is an expert in 3D printing of metals and polymers. 3D-printed metals allow
the creation of high-strength, porous structures that have the strength to
carry loads as well as the responsiveness of live bone tissue, enabling
effective orthopedic repairs and reconstructions.

Gall translates his basic materials research into implants using 3D-printing,
laser powder bed fusion and other additive manufacturing methods to customize
implants to specific patient needs. With Duke colleague Ben Wiley, he has also
developed a hydrogel material (water-absorbing polymer) that can withstand the
enormous forces equivalent to those encountered by the human knee, providing a
potential alternative to knee replacement surgery.

> _“As a mechanical engineer, I am interested in developing materials and
> structures that can not only support tissue growth but also carry
> substantial forces. The strong link between the medical school and
> engineering school here at Duke enables us to both innovate at the basic
> science level and translate it into life-changing clinical applications.”_

Not only are the implants Gall is developing strong enough to support loads,
but they also promote healing. Gall has developed complex porous metal and
polymer structures that encourage bone and tissue ingrowth. He also has
developed 3D-printed orthopedic device implants for controlled release of
antibiotics to treat infection around artificial joints.

With the onset of the global pandemic and shortage of personal protective
equipment (PPE) for health care workers, Gall collaborated with Duke
Engineering professors Paul Fearis and Eric Richardson to develop a solution.
Working around the clock, they tested prototypes and 3D-printed parts to
convert existing surgical helmets, which use room air, into powered air-
purifying respirators, which use filtered air.

Gall is currently working on a high-strength polycarbonate urethane mesh with
elastic properties as an alternative to the stiffer polypropylene meshes
currently used to treat pelvic organ prolapse in women.

He is also collaborating with Duke colleague Guillermo Sapiro to use machine-
learning approaches to understand the alignment of, for example, healthy ankle
bones, and use that information both for building patient-specific 3D-printed
implants and for guiding physicians during reconstruction of patients’ ankles
after severe trauma. In addition, Gall and Duke colleagues Cate Brinson and
Cynthia Rudin are exploring ways to use machine learning to predict the
properties of 3D structures, which may help improve biomaterial implant
design.

Other collaborations include those with Duke colleague Matthew Becker (above)
on advanced manufacturing approaches for specific scaffolds for repairs across
the spectrum of musculoskeletal injuries and artifical intelligence-directed
resin design in a way that has not been done previously.

As the associate dean for entrepreneurship, Gall is leading the Pratt School
of Engineering’s Engineering Entrepreneurship (EngEn) initiative that
integrates design experiences, entrepreneurial education, startup resources
and an expert team to support faculty and student founders. A goal of the
initiative is also to train the next generation of founders and to deliver
technical solutions for society’s needs in health, defense, climate change and
beyond.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

