

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# A Digital Poetry of Gold Nanoparticles

October 1, 2015

Steep is an international project exploring the link between artistic
creativity and scientific research

Priorities in both primary/secondary and higher education stress the
importance of STEM – science, technology, engineering, and math. However,
there are important parallels and connections between art and science and a
growing number of advocates believe that STEM education could benefit greatly
from inclusion of the Arts. According to Scientifica America, Nobel laureates
in the sciences are seventeen times more likely than the average scientist to
be painters, twelve times as likely to be poets, and four times as likely to
be musicians. This clearly illustrates the connection between creativity and
scientific discovery.

_Steep_ is an international art/science research project aimed at exploring
this link between artistic creativity and scientific research, specifically by
examining the impact of gold and gold nanoparticles. The first installment in
this project involves the creation of literary art – poetry specifically –
fused to scientific measurements of gold nanoparticles in environmental and
biological systems. This initial effort is a global effort and has resulted
from the culmination of many diverse skill sets.

The writer/science communicator/poet for this project is Maryse de la Giroday.
She is also the publisher and writer of Canada's largest, independent science
blog. De la Giroday writes about nanotechnology and science policy and
communication, society, and the arts from a Canadian perspective.

Raewyn Turner is the visual artist/conceptual lead/videographer for the Steep
project. Living in New Zealand, Turner combines olfactory research and art
aesthetic skills – her interdisciplinary work is concerned with cross-sensory
perception and the uncharted territories of the senses.

Professor Mark Wiesner, CEINT's director and lead scholar in the field of
nanoscience (who is also an accomplished bassist) served as a scientific
advisor to de la Giroday and Turner on their work.

_A digital poetry of gold nanoparticles_ artistically explores sensing gold
nanotechnology, where it accumulates, changes over time, and how it may affect
living beings and the environment.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

