

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Dipping into Sri Lanka’s Rural Wells

February 21, 2022 | Miranda Volborth

Duke researchers implemented a water sampling campaign in rural Sri
Lanka—aiming to discover origins of a cluster of chronic kidney disease

As an undergraduate chemistry major at Union College, Jake Ulrich studied
abroad in Vietnam, where water wasn’t safe to drink straight from the tap—it
either had to be boiled first or bought. An internship with a local non-
governmental organization that studied and reported on the water quality of
the lakes within the city of Hanoi piqued his interest in environmental
systems. He wanted to learn more.

At the same time, Ulrich began applying to graduate schools, Lee Ferguson’s
lab was rising to national prominence. Ferguson, a civil and environmental
engineering professor at Duke University, is an analytical chemist. One of his
areas of expertise is mass spectrometry, which can identify contaminants and
trace them back to their source. After a polyfluorinated alkyl substance
called GenX was discovered in 2017 in the drinking water supply for
Wilmington, North Carolina, Ferguson helped design and implement a program to
test every public drinking water source across the state for these “forever
chemicals.”

Ulrich joined Ferguson’s lab as a PhD student in 2017, wanting to build on his
analytical instrumentation skills, specifically in mass spectrometry. Five
years later, this expertise detoured his laboratory work to a plane bound for
Sri Lanka to investigate a cluster of chronic kidney diseases—a trouble widely
believed to be tied to pollutant mixtures in the region’s drinking water.

“The existence of this disease is common knowledge in Sri Lanka,” said Nishad
Jayunsundara, an assistant professor at the Nicholas School of the
Environment. Jayasundara began working on the problem as a postdoctoral
researcher in professor Rich Di Giulio’s lab at the Duke Superfund Research
Center, with initial support from the Duke Global Health Institute. But to
really understand the cluster’s origins, Jayasundara believed the Ferguson
lab’s expertise in analytical chemistry could serve as a powerful tool. He
proposed collaborating on the project, and for Ulrich, it was a perfect fit.

“We decided to attack from two sides,” said Ulrich. “Professor Jayasundara’s
lab will focus on toxicology, and the Ferguson lab will look at chemistry. We
can harmonize the data to see if we can get a clear picture of what’s in the
water and how it might be impacting the health of the people in Sri Lanka.”

> "We can harmonize the data to see if we can get a clear picture of what’s in
> the water and how it might be impacting the health of the people in Sri
> Lanka.”
>
> **Jake Ulrich** | Duke CEE PhD student

Ulrich spent several years designing and planning a large water sampling
program, then spent six weeks with Jayasundara implementing it in Sri Lanka.
Along with guides and University of Ruhuna collaborators, they piled into a
van between midnight and 2:00 AM each day to arrive at their rural
destinations a sliver of sun past daybreak. They collected well water
alongside urine samples and demographic information from people in these
communities over multiple days in a campaign that, by its end, encompassed
more than 200 different wells across several regions.

Each of the hundreds of well water samples started at around a liter in
volume, but Ulrich developed some processing techniques to make the logistics
of transport more manageable. Processing of the samples began at the
University of Ruhuna, using a vacuum filtration system to pull the suspended
solids out of the well water. A small, commercially available cartridge then
captured the organic chemicals contained in the sample with a special polymer,
retaining them for later analysis. “Instead of dealing with hundreds of liters
of water, we were able to bring back hundreds of cartridges, which weigh much
less and take up less space,” explained Ulrich. Back at Duke, he could remove
the material on the cartridges with solvents and use mass spectrometry
techniques to identify them.

In most environmental assessment cases, chemical contaminants are targeted one
by one.

But high-resolution mass spectrometry’s superpower lies in the breadth of
different molecules it’s able to consider at once and its unerring ability to
identify them based on their molecular weight, even at very low
concentrations.  
“We’ve really been working to broaden that window so that instead of using a
laser beam to illuminate the landscape, we’re using a spotlight,” said
Ferguson. “The idea is to catch as many molecules as possible that might be of
concern in a sample so that we can look at chemical mixtures.”

> "Instead of using a laser beam to illuminate the landscape, we're using a
> spotlight. The idea is to catch as many molecules as possible that might be
> of concern in a sample, so that we can look at chemical mixtures."
>
> **LEE FERGUSON** | DUKE PROFESSOR OF CIVIL AND ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING

“What is most exciting about this collaboration is that we now have a trove of
chemistry data that can be linked back to kidney toxicity assays we conduct
using animal models in the lab,” said Jayasundara. “This will help to identify
specific chemical mixtures that may pose the most risk to human health and
follow up with laboratory studies to identify markers of disease initiation
and progression.”

In the case of the chronic kidney disease cluster in question, there is one
main suspect; the literature indicates that the chemical glyphosate, an
herbicide, could be responsible—but not on its own. Sri Lanka has hard water,
and glyphosate interacts with it to form complexes that persist in the
environment instead of breaking down quickly, as it does in soft water. Human
kidneys suffer damage when they encounter this complex.

Whether or not glyphosate is caught red-handed, the non-targeted analysis will
allow the team to get a comprehensive look at everything else in the water,
too. “It’s chemical discovery,” said Ulrich, who expects the investigation to
continue for several months after the glyphosate analysis wraps up later this
spring. “If the glyphosate contamination is not as significant as we think,
there will be other directions to explore.”

More news from Duke Engineering

## Related News

November 30, 2021

### The Chemical Detective

August 08, 2018

### Duke Expert Helps Spearhead State's New Water Testing Program

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

