

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Diversity Committee & Director Search

July 21, 2020

Seeking nominations and applications from Pratt School of Engineering
students, faculty, postdocs and staff to bring about transformative positive
change

Dear Pratt community:

For many of us, the past few months have brought a new sense of urgency to the
important work of fighting racism and ensuring equity both in our society and
in our own communities. At Duke and Pratt, we have heard both impactful
observations of areas in we can improve and thoughtful ideas for actions we
can take to live out our firm dedication to diversity, inclusion, equity, and
community for students, faculty and staff alike.

As we begin the 2020-21 academic year, we are seeking nominations and
applications from Pratt students, faculty, postdocs and staff to help guide
these efforts to bring about transformative positive change by serving on the
school-wide Pratt Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Community (DEIC)
Committee.

Please consider nominating yourself, a friend, or colleague for this
committee, which is vitally important for our community. To nominate a
colleague, please send their name to Susan Bonifield,
susan.bonifield@duke.edu, who will reach out to each nominee encouraging them
to apply. To nominate yourself, please express your interest by Friday, August
7.

As many of you know, in 2017, the Pratt School hired our first Director of
Diversity and Inclusion, Dr. Johnna Frierson, and formed a school-wide
diversity committee of students, staff and faculty. We were sad to lose Dr.
Frierson to a well-deserved position in the School of Medicine last year, and
we are now recruiting a new Director of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion. We
are grateful to Dr. Frierson and the committee for their hard work that
resulted in new initiatives such as the Engineering a Community mentoring
program, successful recruitment events for underrepresented students,
education and training for our community, and much more.

Although the pandemic has halted many of Duke’s usual hiring processes, we are
working closely with the University to continue our search for the Director
position given its importance to our school, and anticipate relaunching our
national search to identify strong candidates in the next few weeks.

Thank you in advance for your support of diversity, equity, inclusion and
community, and for applying yourself or encouraging your colleagues who are
passionate about this work to apply to the DEIC committee. If you have any
questions or suggestions, please feel free to contact either of us.

**Nan Jokerst  
** Associate Dean for Strategic Initiatives

**Susan Bonifield  
** Sr. Associate Dean for Administration & Finance

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

