

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Diversity Newslinks: A Talk with Dean Ravi Bellamkonda

October 1, 2016

Dean Ravi V. Bellamkonda was invited to speak at the Office for Institutional
Equity’s Annual Retreat and shared his vision of diversity and inclusion for
the Pratt School of Engineering.

_This article first appeared in Diversity Newslinks, a publication of the Duke
University Office for Institutional Equity._

_Dean Ravi V. Bellamkonda was invited to speak at the Office for Institutional
Equity’s 2016 Annual Retreat._

_At that time, Dean Bellamkonda shared his background and interests prior to
embarking on his new role as the Vinik Dean of Engineering at Duke. During the
retreat, he further shared his vision of diversity and inclusion at the Pratt
School of Engineering._

_—Robert T. Crouch, Assistant Director_

* * *

How long have you been devoted to diversity and inclusion in the workspace and
why is this work important to you as the Vinik Dean of the Pratt School of
Engineering?

For many years, I was under the impression that talent and hard work were the
keys to overcoming the diversity and inclusion issues that underrepresented
minority (URM) groups face.

While these issues are present, I assumed they would become less important
once one gets an opportunity to be at a fantastic place like Duke.

However, as I have spent more time with our URM, LGBTQ and women colleagues,
and as I listened more, several things have become clearer to me. For example,
places like Duke are not as accessible as we would like them to be. Even after
we become members of a top-notch university, there is sometimes an information
and expectation asymmetry that advantages some over others.

We all form ‘intuitions’ about individuals in certain groups based on popular
or historical (false) mores. And while this intuition normally serves us well,
it creates an unconscious bias that can definitely lead us astray, resulting
in an unfair playing field. This has been a profound and personal realization
for me. This awareness alone has changed the way I approach matters and the
conversations I have in my role as the dean of the Pratt School of
Engineering.

Please describe the connections between academic scholarship, research and
diversity from an engineers’ point of view.

If we as Duke Engineers are serious about taking on grand challenges in
complex areas like health, intelligence and connectivity, and the environment
(and we are!), we cannot do it without the best minds collaborating and
working together.

The best minds do not favor a race, gender or sexual orientation—on the
contrary, I would like for Duke Engineering to be a destination for people who
are interested in changing the world, and who bring a wide range of
perspectives and insights that are needed to do that. Our diversity mission is
the same as our mission for excellence; they are not two separate missions in
my mind.

Why is a deep appreciation for diversity and inclusion important for the Pratt
School of Engineering?

The research of Scott Page and others show that as problems become more
complex, the diversity of the teams tackling them becomes a major factor in
success. So to me the case for diversity is not solely a social justice
argument. A diversity of opinions and backgrounds, broadly defined, is also a
critical ingredient to our coming up with breakthroughs in research and in
teaching.

In your role as dean, would you describe some of the diversity and inclusion
initiatives that are on the horizon for the Pratt School of Engineering?

My hope is to concentrate our efforts on two fronts. First, to develop
mentorship, strong community and proactive transparency in information so that
at Pratt we do ALL we can to enable each member of our family to succeed in
whatever it is that she or he is passionate about. I would like each member of
Pratt and Duke to feel like ALL of Pratt and Duke is behind their
success—without question.

As a result, we are looking at every aspect of our climate to include our
hiring process, our mentorship processes, and our system of rewards and
recognition. Focusing on these two fronts will ensure ALL members of Pratt,
particularly those from underrepresented groups, feel welcomed, nurtured and
free to pursue what they really came here to do, to make a difference in our
research, learning and teaching missions.

We have a fantastic diversity officer, Johnna Frierson, Ph.D., who helps
initiate and facilitate these conversations. But I believe the main
responsibility really rests with the entire leadership at Pratt, who are the
folks who make hiring, promotion and resource allocation decisions. I am glad
we have partnerships with her and your office as resources to help us make
progress in this important journey.

Let me also tell you two things—I am proud of Duke’s position on HB2 and the
renaming of the Quad. I was honored to be present for Duke’s recognition of
true excellence in naming our most important Quad as the Abele Quad. While we
have a long way to go, I am hopeful that at Duke, we will continue to take
this Journey together.

More about the Dean

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

