

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Diversifying the Edge Computing Ecosystem

August 17, 2021

New Duke-led, NSF-funded “Athena” center for AI seeks to advance next-
generation mobile networks and make fast, secure edge computing accessible to
more users

A new five-year, $20 million National Science Foundation grant establishing
the Duke-led AI Institute for Edge Computing Leveraging Next-generation
Networks will support the development of advanced mobile networks and a broad
matrix of local datacenters to improve the speed, security and accessibility
of data processing on a national scale.

Known as “Athena” for short, the new institute includes 16 Duke faculty
members and 12 researchers from partner institutions MIT, Yale, Princeton,
Wisconsin, University of Michigan and North Carolina A&T State University, as
well as industry collaborators from AT&T, Microsoft, Motorola Solutions,
EdgeMicro and 5NINES.

“This significant investment from NSF is a testament to Duke’s broad strengths
in artificial intelligence and machine learning, and emblematic of the future
of team-based scientific discovery and technology research,” said Provost
Sally Kornbluth. “The award highlights the role of advanced computing
solutions for enhancing multiple areas of science and underscores the
importance of AI as a pillar of the Duke Science and Technology initiative.”

With partial funding from the Department of Homeland Security, Athena is led
by Duke Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering and Computer Science
Yiran Chen, an expert in deep learning and system security. One of Athena’s
goals, said Chen, is to “diversify the edge computing ecosystem,” to enable
fast, secure and accessible computing by moving data processing closer to the
point of data collection.

Countless sensor-based devices around us—wearables, smartphones, home security
systems, augmented and virtual reality devices, and partially automated
vehicles, to name just a few examples—constantly scan the environment to
collect and report data about their surroundings. As our internet
connectedness grows, so does this proliferation of data.

> “This significant investment from NSF is a testament to Duke’s broad
> strengths in artificial intelligence and machine learning, and emblematic of
> the future of team-based scientific discovery and technology research.”
>
> **Sally Kornbluth** | Duke university Provost  
>

The goal of edge computing is to shift some of the data processing workload
away from large, distant server farms (“the cloud”) and closer to the data’s
origin (the “edge”), making computation and reporting faster and more power-
efficient. While the gains may be measured in milliseconds, even this small
difference is critical in developing applications that, for example, tell a
self-driving vehicle when to hit the brakes.

Athena managing director Jeffrey Krolik, a professor of electrical and
computer engineering at Duke, emphasized that edge computing offers more than
speed. “Keeping data close—as close as the palm of your hand—is more secure
because you’re not sharing that information with a huge datacenter. It also
delivers more personalized results,” he noted. Consider a wearable sleep
monitor: that device might collect biometric data alongside lifestyle data
(like how much caffeine you normally consume) and combine it with
environmental data (like the temperature of your house). While it might be
worthwhile in this case to amalgamate a small number of users’ data streams to
look for commonalities—is nearby construction disrupting the sleep of an
entire neighborhood?—there’s probably not much utility in combining the data
of a North Carolinian with that of Texan, at a server farm a thousand miles
away.

Making edge computing accessible to more users will require the transformation
of the wireless network business model, said Chen. “Right now, a small handful
of large carriers provide the wireless networks,” he explained. “They sell the
devices and they offer the cloud computing services. In the future Athena
envisions, large datacenters will be augmented by thousands of small, local
datacenters that are much closer to the edge.” These edge datacenters would
still be provided by the third-party companies, Chen explained, but smaller
vendors could rent them, scaling the cost barrier that currently impedes
variety in the space. Chen expects that as new product offerings grow, so will
the customer base. This change, said Chen, “will diversify the ecosystem of
edge.”

Through a collaboration with the Town of Cary, NC, and small edge equipment
vendors and service providers, Athena will demonstrate how the developed edge
computing system could work in a local community.

Chen and his team plan to work with industry partners to educate and develop
technical leaders who are not only skilled at developing edge computing
networks, but who are also committed to the fair and ethical use of AI.
Additionally, Athena will offer a Summer Research Program (ASRP) to
undergraduate and graduate students and introduce the Athena Postdoctoral
Fellowship Program (APFP) to encourage engagement with local schools at the
K-12 level.

More News From Duke ECE

## Athena Leadership Team

### Yiran Chen

**Principal Investigator**

Professor of Electrical & Computer Engineering, Duke University

### Jeffrey L. Krolik

**Managing Director**

Professor of Electrical & Computer Engineering, Duke University

### Suman Banerjee

**Networking Thrust Lead**

Professor of Computer Sciences, University of Wisconsin

### Lin Zhong

**Computer Systems Thrust Lead**

Professor of Electrical & Computer Engineering, Yale University

### Hai "Helen" Li

**AI Foundations Thrust Lead**

Clare Boothe Luce Professor of Electrical & Computer Engineering, Duke
University

### Miroslav Pajic

**Services and Applications Thrust Lead**

Dickinson Family Associate Professor of Electrical & Computer Engineering,
Duke University

### Shaundra Daily

**Education and Workforce Development Lead**

Professor of Practice in the Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering,
Duke University

### Daniel Limbrick

**Broader Participation Lead**

Associate Professor of Electrical & Computer Engineering, North Carolina A&T
State University

_Full team profiles and more at_ athena.duke.edu »

## Related News

October 09, 2018

### ASIC Draws First Industry Partners

December 22, 2016

### Yiran Chen: Integrating Tomorrow’s Technology into Today’s Devices

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

