

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# A Decade of Building Careers and Connections

October 22, 2019

Celebrating its 10th anniversary, Duke’s Master of Engineering Management
Online Program provides a rare combination of business, law and engineering
education both online and on campus

When La Tondra Murray came to Duke in February 2009, she knew she’d be working
for the thriving Master of Engineering Management program, then entering its
12th year of strong growth.

What she didn’t know was that she’d soon be tasked with launching a new
online-based version of the program that same fall.

Working with Brad Fox, associate dean and executive director of professional
masters programs, and Jeff Glass, the Hogg Family Director of Engineering
Management and Entrepreneurship, Murray helped create the Duke distributed
Master of Engineering Management program (originally known as "d-MEMP") to
deliver the campus program’s high-quality curriculum to full-time working
professionals in homes, offices or coffee shops.

“We were very busy those first six months,” recalls Murray, director of online
and distance education for the Pratt School of Engineering at Duke. “Online
education was new for us at the time, so we had to be very nimble and very
experimental.”

Ten years and more than 200 graduates later, the program—now called **Duke MEM
Online** —remains at the forefront of distance education thanks to a rare mix
of online courses with on-campus residencies that have turned its successful
student cohorts into something more reminiscent of a multigenerational family.

## A New Approach to Engineering Management

Designed to teach engineers business management skills to prepare them for
leadership roles in the technology sector, Duke's online MEMP combines
marketing, finance, intellectual property and business law, and management
courses with opportunities to build expertise in customer experience and
product design, data analytics and machine learning, operations and supply
chain management, product management, and technology development and
commercialization.

“Having the opportunity to select from a broad range of classes has enabled me
to cater the program to suit my career goals,” said 2014 graduate Adam Kohn,
senior polymer research and development innovation engineer at Nike. “I have
been able to develop a foundation in business, entrepreneurship and law while
remaining loyal to my engineering background. The program is designed with the
student in mind!”

Students work through the curriculum by viewing recordings of campus classes
and interacting with fellow students and faculty through email, social media,
web conferencing, and instant messaging. These distance-learning classes are
augmented with three weeklong residencies on Duke’s campus, where students
connect with fellow distance students, campus peers, program faculty, and the
larger Duke network while taking part in challenging leadership workshops
emphasizing communication, creativity and collaboration.

“I felt very strongly from the beginning that I wanted this to be more than a
point-and-click program. The idea of having an online program with a
residential component is relatively common in business schools, but it’s not
as predominant for engineering schools,” said Murray. “We’re often told that
it’s a differentiator between d-MEMP and similar programs. And we see that
play out on campus. Our students really look forward to the on-campus
residencies. It’s a time for them to connect as a cohort, to bond to Duke and
to have that campus experience.”

“The relationships I formed with faculty definitely enhanced my experience.
However, the most beneficial part of the d-MEMP experience was the
relationship formed with members of my cohort,” said Tiffany Cremer, d-MEMP
2011, senior innovation and design engineer at Amazon. “We related our
personal and professional challenges between fields, building our combined
knowledge base. Several years after graduation, we have kept in touch, and are
continuing to leverage each other's skills, knowledge and network. Even at a
distance, you are part of the d-MEMP and Duke community.”

## Building the Cohorts

The ability for members of a cohort to interact and learn from one another
throughout the program is extremely important to Murray. For each group, she
selects 20 to 30 applicants whom she feels provides a diverse set of knowledge
bases that complement each other.

Students are typically two to five years into their careers and have come from
29 states and 10 countries to date. Some are older, some are fresh out of
college and just starting a new job, but all are looking for new skill sets
that will help them move into positions of leadership.

“We’re looking for broad representation across industries and organizations,”
said Murray. “While a lot of the learning comes from the faculty and the
experiences they have here at Duke, there’s a ton of learning that goes on
within the cohort. We want to make sure people are fully equipped not only to
take from the experience, but to actively contribute by virtue of their
experience, background and perspective.”

Murray continues to work to bring diversity to the cohorts by building new
partnerships with industry to expand the program and raise awareness in
technical corporate sectors. Two examples of already successful partnerships
are with Boeing and the Navy Nuclear Program, which are indicative of the
demand corporations have for the training Duke's online MEMP offers their
engineers.

This year, the program is launching a new Business Foundations for Engineers
certificate program that Murray hopes will become an on-ramp to the online
MEMP. The certificate program consists of four online classes taken over the
course of two years.

“It might be just what some people need to get a small sampler of business
classes,” said Murray. “But if they really enjoy the classes and excel, then
we’d love to have that talent continue on into the degree program. It’s a
great way to get to know Duke and find out if the program is right for them.”

## The Next 10 Years

Besides offering the certificate program, looking to expand both class
offerings and sizes, and accepting applicants into the program in the spring
semester for the first time this year, Murray knows at least one more thing at
will change for the online MEMP over the years ahead—the technology.

“We have more faculty interaction than we did when we first started, with the
technology evolving from Google Hangouts at first to mostly using Zoom today,”
said Murray. “We’ve never been prescriptive about what students have to use to
communicate, which has allowed us to learn from them what the latest, greatest
technology is in terms of chat or video conferencing.”

But no matter what the future may hold, one thing is for certain—d-MEMP will
continue to create close-knit communities and success stories.

“It’s very common for students to come back in their second year and tell us
they’ve either been promoted or they have a new opportunity with another
company, sometimes through networking with their cohort peers,” said Murray.
“It’s not about getting the degree and suddenly having this approval to go
forward and contribute. Students can practice what they’re learning even
before they have their degree in hand.”

And while there’s always been an interest in cohort community, over time
students have forged connections even across the program, added Murray.
“Whether it’s weddings, having children, traveling or starting new jobs,
they’re still connected. And I’ve gotten to see them all grow together, which
has been extremely satisfying.”

## More About

  * The Online Master of Engineering Management degree
  * The Business Foundations for Engineering Graduate Certificate program

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

