

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Talking Mechanics Across the Midwest

September 14, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

In a nine-university tour beginning this year, Duke civil engineer John Dolbow
will discuss his work developing computational models to predict how material
systems will fracture and fail—research that can inform approaches to drug
delivery, carbon sequestration and more

For the past six decades, celebrated mechanics researchers from the world over
have toured universities across America’s heartland as part of the Midwest
Mechanics Seminar Series. This fall, John Dolbow, professor of civil and
environmental engineering at Duke University, will become part of the
distinguished tradition, stopping at nine universities to deliver invited
lectures on his research into computational models that predict how material
systems will fracture and fail.

“The research I’m working on is easy to describe, but the physics involved is
incredibly rich,” said Dolbow, who just so happens to be the academic
“grandson” of Phil Hodge, who founded the series while a professor of
mechanics at the Illinois Institute of Technology. “I’m excited about doing
the lectures on the tour and the projects I’ll be discussing in my talks.”

The Midwest Mechanics Seminar Series began as a way for universities to pool
their resources to attract notable speakers. Over the years, the seminar
series grew in prestige as the number of participating schools grew to 10 at
its peak. This year, Dolbow will join a handful of other professors as they
split the tour into two week-long stints, with Dolbow’s coming in September
and April.

Dolbow’s research focuses on the development of computational methods for
nonlinear problems in solid mechanics. In this seminar series, he’ll be
speaking about his current National Science Foundation-funded work to model
and predict the fracturing behavior of particulate rafts, which was featured
on the cover of the September issue of the journal _Soft Matter_ earlier this
year.

Particulate rafts are not common vernacular in day-to-day conversations, but
chances are you’ve seen one in action. When a large number of floating
hydrophobic particles form a thin layer or “raft” on top of a liquid, the
forces created by capillary bridges between them cause the group to act like
an elastic sheet.

If forces push the edges of the sheet in opposite directions, the system
resists the shearing stress. If forces push the ends together, the sheet
buckles and forms wrinkles. But when a little bit of surfactant—such as liquid
dish soap—is dropped on top, the sheet fractures.

“You can recreate a version of this effect in your own kitchen,” said Dolbow,
who is the second Duke faculty member to take part in the lecture series,
following in the footsteps of former engineering dean Earl Dowell. “If your
grinder is set to the right level of coarseness, you can grind pepper onto
water in a small dish and then drop some dish soap in the middle to make the
pepper raft break apart. One of our collaborators’ daughters has actually
obtained results that are fairly consistent with what we’ve observed in the
laboratory.”

Dolbow and his laboratory study the forces and physical phenomena that drive
the formation of these fractures. They’ve developed a computer model that can
accurately predict how the system will fracture given the specific
characteristics of the particles and fluids involved.

The research has many practical applications. Drops of drugs could be
encapsulated in a coat of particles to contain them until a specific chemical
signal is given to fracture the coating and release the drugs. Underlaying a
film of particles beneath oil spills can make them easier to clean up. And the
system mimics some of the essential physics behind the fluid-driven crack
growth in hydraulic fracturing.

“Just like in our experiments, surfactants are a big part of the liquids used
in hydraulic fracturing operations,” said Dolbow. “But are they really
necessary? And if so, why do we need them and how do they work? Finding these
answers in operations deep underground is difficult at best. Our experiments
offer insights into these questions with a much simpler model that we can
actually see with our eyes.”

_Dolbow will be speaking at the University of Michigan, Michigan State
University, the University of Notre Dame, and the University of Wisconsin –
Madison in September 2017, and Purdue University, the University of Illinois
Urbana-Champaign, the Illinois Institute of Technology, Iowa State University,
and the University of Minnesota in April 2018._

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

