

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Eye Imaging Technology Breaks Through Skin by Crossing Beams

December 1, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

New approach to optical coherence tomography increases its depth of view in
biological tissues

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have demonstrated a method for
increasing the depth at which optical coherence tomography (OCT) can image
structures beneath skin.

The gold standard for imaging and diagnosing diseases within the retina, OCT
has yet to find widespread use as an imaging technique for other parts of the
body due to its inability to return clear images from more than a millimeter
beneath the skin’s surface.

Duke researchers found that tilting the light source and detector used in the
technique increases OCT’s imaging depth by almost 50%, putting skin diagnoses
within reach. The “dual-axis” approach opens new possibilities for OCT to be
used in applications such as spotting skin cancer, assessing burn damage and
healing progress, and guiding surgical procedures.

The results appear online on December 1 in the open-access journal Biomedical
Optics Express.

“It’s actually a fairly simple technique that sounds like something out of
Ghostbusters — you get more power when you cross the beams,” said Adam Wax,
professor of biomedical engineering at Duke. “Being able to use OCT even 2 or
3 millimeters into the skin is extremely useful because there are a lot of
biological processes happening at that depth that can be indicative of
diseases like skin cancer.”

Standard OCT is analogous to ultrasound but uses light instead of sound. A
beam of light is shined down into an object, and by measuring how long it
takes for it to bounce back, computers can deduce what the internal structure
of the object looks like. It has become the go-to technology for imaging and
diagnosing retinal diseases because the retina is so thin and easily
accessible through the eye’s transparent cornea and lens.

Most other biological tissues, however, scatter and reflect light, making it
difficult to penetrate with standard OCT approaches. The deeper the light
goes, the more likely it is to get lost in the sample and miss the device’s
detection.

In the new technique, researchers instead point the light at the object at a
slight angle and set up the detector at an equal and opposite angle, creating
a dual-axis. This allows the detector to benefit from the slight scattering
angle introduced by the object’s physical nature.

“By tilting the light source and detector, you increase your chances of
collecting more of the light that’s scattering off at odd angles from a
tissue’s depths,” said Evan Jelly, a doctoral student in Wax’s laboratory and
first author of the paper. “And OCT is so sensitive that just a little bit
more of that scattered light is all you need.”

According to Jelly, researchers have tried this dual-axis approach in other
imaging modalities. But through his experiments, Jelly discovered how to apply
this to OCT. His key discovery was that the depth of the focal point of light
within the tissue makes a large difference in how well the dual-axis approach
works.

However, there is a catch: The greater the angle used to identify deeper
signal, the smaller the field of view becomes. To get around this issue, Jelly
devised a method of scanning the focus of the narrower window through various
depths of the tissue and then using a computational algorithm to combine the
data into a single image.

In the paper, Wax and Jelly tested this approach with fabricated tissues and
hairless mice to benchmark its performance against standard OCT to see what
information it could reveal in a live animal’s skin. The controlled
experiments showed that the dual-axis OCT approach does tend to outperform the
standard setup. And in the live mice, the dual-axis OCT was able to image the
tip of a needle 2 millimeters beneath the skin’s surface, where 1.2
millimeters is traditionally the landmark depth.

“The dual-axis OCT gave us images and information from the layers of skin
where blood and molecular exchanges are occurring, which is extremely valuable
for detecting signs of diseases,” said Jelly. “The technology is still in its
infancy, but it is primed to be highly successful for biosensing or guiding
surgical procedures.”

This research was funded by the National Science Foundation (CBET-2009841,
IIP-1827560).

CITATION: “Deep Imaging with 1.3 µm Dual-Axis Optical Coherence Tomography and
an Enhanced Depth of Focus,” Evan T. Jelly, Yang Zhao, Kengyeh K. Chu, Hillel
Price, Michael Crose, Zachary A. Steelman, and Adam Wax. Biomedical Optics
Express, Nov. 18, 2021. DOI: 10.1364/BOE.438621  
Online:
https://www.osapublishing.org/boe/fulltext.cfm?uri=boe-12-12-7689&id=464977

## Related News

May 14, 2020

### Retinal Texture Could Provide Early Biomarker Of Alzheimer’s Disease

June 28, 2019

### Low-Cost Retinal Scanner Could Help Prevent Blindness Worldwide

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

