

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke University Joins the University Corporation for Atmospheric Research

October 25, 2017

Consortium of more than 100 universities supports atmospheric and related
Earth system sciences

Duke University has joined the University Corporation for Atmospheric Research
(UCAR).

Founded in 1960, UCAR is a nonprofit consortium of more than 100 North
American member colleges and universities focused on research and training in
the atmospheric and related Earth system sciences. The organization also
manages the National Center for Atmospheric Research with sponsorship by the
National Science Foundation.

“When UCAR first formed, Duke was not the research university that it is
today,” said Ana Barros, the James L. Meriam Professor of Civil and
Environmental Engineering, who led the initiative for Duke to join. “But
between the Pratt School of Engineering and the Nicholas School of the
Environment, our footprint in the atmospheric and related Earth system
sciences has grown tremendously. We’ve reached a point of critical mass where
joining UCAR was the obvious thing to do. I’m so proud.”

UCAR's community programs offer a suite of innovative resources, tools and
services in support of the consortium's education and research goals. Along
with Duke, new members of the consortium include the University of Alabama,
Tuscaloosa; Louisiana State University; University of Maryland, Baltimore
County; University of Massachusetts, Amherst; University of Massachusetts,
Lowell; and University of Saskatchewan. The additions bring the total
membership of UCAR up to 117.

"It is an honor to welcome these great universities to UCAR," said UCAR
President Antonio Busalacchi. "The work of university researchers and
educators is more important than ever as they train the next-generation
workforce and collaborate with partners in government and the private sector
to advance our understanding of the Earth system for the betterment of
society."

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

