

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Receives $500K Grant to Support Science, Engineering Professorships for
Women

January 14, 2016

Story originally posted on Duke Forward

A five-year, $500,000 grant will fund two professorships for new female
faculty in the computer science and electrical and computer engineering
departments at Duke University.

The grant from the Henry Luce Foundation’s Clare Boothe Luce (CBL) Program
will further the university’s goal of attracting and supporting more women in
those research areas, and creating more opportunity for women in science,
technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM).

Duke is committing another $2.5 million to fully fund the positions at the
Pratt School of Engineering and Trinity College of Arts & Sciences.

“University leadership, faculty and staff are deeply engaged in making Duke an
even more inclusive and attractive institution for women in STEM, so receiving
a Clare Boothe Luce professorship award is very exciting,” said Sally
Kornbluth, Duke’s provost and James B. Duke Professor of Pharmacology and
Cancer Biology. "The award will enable Duke to hire sought-after female
candidates who will, in turn, inspire more women students to pursue careers in
the sciences.”

The grant, which will be used to hire two assistant or associate professors,
builds on a previous CBL grant that funded fellowships for three female
graduate students at the Pratt School from 2006-08.

George Truskey, Pratt’s interim dean, said the professors “will be welcomed
into an environment at Duke where women are valued and supported as academics
and students, and are visible and active as leaders.”

“Junior faculty face immense pressure early in their careers, and
expectations, stereotypes and traditions may delay or prevent career
advancement,” Truskey said. “We are committed to fostering a culture that
supports the career development of our entire faculty, with special emphasis
on women and minorities.”

Since its first grants in 1989, the CBL program has become a significant
source of private support for women in STEM. Clare Boothe Luce, the widow of
magazine magnate Henry R. Luce, was a playwright, journalist, U.S. ambassador
to Italy and the first woman elected to Congress from Connecticut.

In her bequest establishing the program at the Henry Luce Foundation, she
sought “to encourage women to enter, study, graduate, and teach” in science,
mathematics and engineering. The program has supported more than 1,900 women
nationwide so far.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

