

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Wins $15 Million Grant Renewal to Study Effects of Nanomaterials

November 11, 2013 | By Karyn Hede

How are nanomaterials affecting the environment—and us? With a new grant
renewal, CEINT researchers seek answers

The nanomaterials revolution has made exceedingly tiny engineered particles a
hot commodity, used in products from clothing to sunscreen to electronics. But
the very properties that make them so useful -- vanishingly small size and
high surface area—may have unintended consequences as they enter living
organisms and the environment.

A pioneering, multi-institution research center headquartered at Duke's Pratt
School of Engineering has just won $15-million grant renewal from the National
Science Foundation and the US Environmental Protection Agency to continue
learning more about where nanoparticles accumulate, how they interact with
other chemicals and how they affect the environment.

Founded in 2008, the Center for Environmental Implications of NanoTechnology
(CEINT) has been evaluating the effect of long-term nanomaterial exposure on
organisms and ecosystems.

“The previous focus has been on studying simple, uniform nanomaterials in
simple environments,” said Mark Wiesner, James L. Meriam Professor of Civil &
Environmental Engineering and director of CEINT. “As we look to the next five
years, we envision a dramatically different landscape. We will be evaluating
more complex nanomaterials in more realistic natural environments such as
agricultural lands and water treatment systems where these materials are
likely to be found.”

When CEINT formed, little research had been done on how materials manufactured
at the nanoscale—about 1/10,000th the diameter of a human hair—enter the
environment and whether their size and unique properties render them a new
category of environmental risk. For example, nanoparticles can be highly
reactive with other chemicals in the environment and had been shown to disrupt
activities in living organisms. Indeed, nanosilver is used in clothing
precisely because it effectively kills odor-causing bacteria.

To tackle this expansive research agenda, CEINT leadership assembled a multi-
institutional research team encompassing expertise in ecosystems biology,
chemistry, geology, materials science, computational science, mathematical
modeling and other specialties, to complement its engineering expertise. The
Center has 29 faculty collaborators, as well as 76 graduate and undergraduate
students participating in research. Over its first five years, CEINT has
answered some of the most pressing questions about environmental risk and has
learned where to focus future research.

The center also pioneered the use of a new test chamber, called a mesocosm,
that replicates a small wetland environment. “Over the long term, we want to
evaluate how nanoparticles bioaccumulate in complex food webs,” said Emily
Bernhardt, an associate professor of biology at Duke and ecosystem ecologist
who helped design the simulated ecosystems. “The additional funding will allow
us to study the subtle effect of low-dose exposure on ecosystems over time, as
well as complex interactions among nanoparticles and other environmental
contaminants.”

Looking forward, the investigators at CEINT plan to expand the use of systems
modeling and to create a “knowledge commons,” a place to store various kinds
of data that can then be analyzed as a whole, said CEINT Executive Director
Christine Hendren.

“Our investigators and collaborators are located across the globe,” Hendren
added. “We are committed to disseminating information that can be translated
into responsible regulatory frameworks and that will be available to compare
with results of future research.”

The funding renewal comes from the National Science Foundation (NSF) and
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) under NSF Cooperative Agreement
EF-0830093.

Key findings from CEINT's first five years include:

**Naturally occurring nanomaterials far outnumber engineered particles.**
CEINT scientist Michael Hochella, a geoscientist at Virginia Tech, inventoried
nanoparticles and concluded that natural nanoparticles are found everywhere,
from dust in the atmosphere to sea spray to volcanoes. The environmental risks
of these natural nanomaterials are difficult to separate from engineered
nanomaterials.

**Engineered nanoparticles change once they enter the environment.**Gregory V.
Lowry, deputy director of CEINT and professor at Carnegie Mellon University,
Pittsburgh, along with colleagues from the University of Birmingham, U.K. and
the University of South Carolina found that the relatively large surface area
of nanoparticles makes them highly reactive once they enter the environment.
These transformations will alter their movement and toxicity and must be
considered when studying nanomaterials. Their review article on this topic was
named the best feature article of 2012 by the journal _Environmental Science
and Technology._

**Nanoparticles can be visualized, even in complex environmental samples.** A
research team led by CEINT investigators Jie Liu, associate professor of
chemistry at Duke, and CEINT Director Mark Wiesner showed that more than a
dozen types of engineered nanoparticles, including silver, gold, and titanium
dioxide, along with carbon nanotubes, can be surveyed using a technique called
hyperspectral imaging, which measures light scattering caused by different
types of nanoparticles. The new technique, co-developed by postdoctoral
researcher Appala Raju Badireddy, is sensitive enough to analyze nanoparticles
found in water samples ranging from ultrapurified to wastewater. It will be
used in future long-term studies of how nanoparticles move and accumulate in
ecological systems.

**It is possible to estimate current and future volume of engineered
nanomaterials.** Understanding the volume of nanomaterials being produced and
released into the environment is a crucial factor in risk assessment. CEINT
researchers led by Christine Hendren measured the upper- and lower-bound
annual U.S. production of five classes of nanomaterials, totaling as much as a
combined 40,000 metric tons annually as of 2011.

**Silver nanoparticles caused environmental stress in a simulated wetland
environment.** CEINT has developed “mesocosms,” open-air terrarium-like
structures that simulate wetland ecosystems that can be evaluated over time.
Even low doses of silver nanoparticles used in many consumer products produced
about a third less biomass in a mesocosm. The researchers will now look at how
nanomaterials are transferred between organisms in a mesocosm.

_TheCenter for the Environmental Implications of NanoTechnology (CEINT) is
funded by a $15 million grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF) and
the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) under NSF Cooperative Agreement
DBI-1266252. It was previously funded under NSF Cooperative Agreement
EF-0830093.CEINT is exploring the relationship between a vast array of
nanomaterials— from natural, to manufactured, to those produced incidentally
by human activities—and their potential environmental exposure, biological
effects, and ecological impacts. Headquartered at Duke University, CEINT is a
collaborative effort among researchers from Duke, Carnegie Mellon University,
Howard University, Virginia Tech, University of Kentucky, and Stanford
University. CEINT academic collaborations include ongoing activities
coordinated with faculty at Baylor, Clemson, North Carolina State, and North
Carolina Central universities, with researchers at NIST and EPA government
labs, and with key international partners. _

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

