

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Students Spend Spring Break Installing Solar Panels in Fresno

April 19, 2017

Students installed solar panels for a low-income household, a project that
should reduce the Fresno homeowner’s energy bill by at least 80%.

_Posted by the Duke University Energy Initiative_

Fresno isn't the most obvious spring break destination, but it's where seven
Duke students chose to spend their vacation this March. The team took part in
Solar Spring Break, a program that engages university students in installing
no-cost solar for low-income families.

Duke students captured their experience in this mini-documentary (created by
senior Samuel Corwin with editing support from junior Dillon Fernando):

Students installed solar panels for a low-income household, a project that
should reduce the Fresno homeowner’s energy bill by at least 80%. (Watch local
media coverage of the Duke team's project here and here.)

The students on this year’s team are particularly interested in how food,
water, and energy issues are interrelated—which is why they wanted to spend
time in the agricultural hub of Fresno. They toured Fresno State’s Water and
Energy Technology Incubator, California’s testing ground for innovative water
irrigation efficiency solutions. They also met with Sarge Green, a project
director at the California Water Institute, learning more about how California
manages its agricultural water resources and the resulting energy demand.

The team included six Duke undergraduates and one graduate student:

  * Team leader: Shomik Verma - sophomore, mechanical engineering (Pratt
    School of Engineering)
  * Samuel Corwin - senior, environmental science and policy and Asian and
    Middle Eastern studies (Nicholas School of the Environment; Trinity
    College of Arts & Sciences)
  * Amaree Gardner - sophomore, environmental science (Nicholas School of the
    Environment)
  * Jenna Poplausky - senior, mechanical engineering (Pratt School of
    Engineering)
  * Harshvardhan Sanghi - freshman, mechanical engineering (Pratt School of
    Engineering)
  * Rui Shan - second-year, master’s of environmental management (Nicholas
    School of the Environment)
  * Anuj Thakkar - freshman, engineering (Pratt School of Engineering)

The Duke University Energy Initiative, which organized and sponsored the team,
is an interdisciplinary hub for energy education, research and engagement at
Duke, with the mission of advancing an accessible, affordable, reliable, and
clean energy system. Each year, the Initiative supports dozens of outside-of-
class opportunities to enrich the learning and career development of energy-
interested students across Duke.

“We’re developing the energy innovators of the future,” notes Dr. Brian
Murray, interim director of the Energy Initiative and director of the
environmental economics program at the Nicholas Institute for Environmental
Policy Solutions. “This sector is rapidly changing. We want to position Duke
students to step into impactful energy careers with a strong base of knowledge
and experience—having engaged firsthand with professionals from across the
industry.”

This is the second year that Duke students have taken part in the program with
the Energy Initiative’s support. Last year’s team installed solar panels on
the Chemehuevi reservation near Lake Havasu in California’s Inland Empire
region:

**Want to stay informed of energy events, opportunities, and news at Duke?**
Sign up for the Energy Initiative’s email list.

**Want to share your professional expertise with Duke students interested in
energy?**Contact Stacy Peterson.

**Interested in other partnerships or in giving opportunities related to the
Energy Initiative's education efforts?** Contact Suellen Aldina.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

