

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Startup Converts Fecal Sludge To Clean Reusable Water

October 26, 2018

Supercritical water oxidation uses high pressure and temperature to break down
complex organic compounds into clean water and CO2

_By Dan Garcia,Office of Licensing and Ventures_

With an estimated $384 billion in costs to repair the US water and sanitation
infrastructure, 2.3 billion people (a third of the world’s population) lacking
in access to proper sanitation, and one in two people globally facing water
shortage by 2030, the prospect of managing our waste effectively sounds like a
solid plan.

374Water, spun out of Duke and originally developed at Duke’s Pratt School of
Engineering, is commercializing the technology by building a product that aims
to convert organic waste—such as sewage sludge or food/animal waste—into clean
water, carbon dioxide, and nondegradable inorganic materials that can be used
as fertilizers.

Invented by Dr. Marc Deshusses, professor of Civil and Environmental
Engineering and Kobe Nagar, Principal Engineer at the Deshusses’ lab, the
invention employs supercritical water oxidation (SCWO), which works by using
high pressure and temperature—over 220 times atmospheric pressure and above
374 degrees Celsius, to be exact–to break down complex organic compounds into
clean water and CO2.

The effectiveness and relative simplicity of SCWO is highlighted by the speed
at which the reaction takes place, potentially within seconds. As an added
bonus, the excess heat produced by the exothermic reaction can be used to
generate electricity, and the process produces clean emissions free of
pollutants such as sulfur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide. The team best
summarizes all the benefits as, “a compact, clean, and sustainable solution at
a game-changing competitive, affordable cost!”

Deshusses was inspired to invent 374Water through his fascination with
“developing solutions to environmental issues, particularly in water treatment
and sanitation” for less developed countries.

A consequence of poor sanitation systems is a higher prevalence of disease due
to untreated human waste contaminating waterways and other public areas.

“In the world, there are over two billion people that don’t have access to a
decent toilet,” Deshusses explained in a recent interview. “The implications
are huge because there’s a lot of fecal matter that ends up untreated in the
environment and it leads to diarrheal diseases, parasites, and other health
impacts on people.” Developed countries have their own set of sanitation
problems such as a surplus of sludge from the sewage treatment process called
biosolids which requires safe disposal. Deshusses and Nagar sought to address
this problem by developing a compact, superior treatment system that can
handle the fecal waste of a 1,000, 6,000, or even 30,000 people.

> Work on the project began in 2013 when the “Reinvent the Toilet” challenge
> along with funding from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.

Work on the project began in 2013 when the “Reinvent the Toilet” challenge
along with funding from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. First, research
was needed, “demonstrating the reactivity of fecal waste and ensuring the SCWO
could convert the waste into clean water and energy.”

The project then undertook several developmental phases ensuring that the
final product would treat sludge at a competitive cost. Deshusses now has a
pilot plant on Duke’s campus behind Hudson Hall that has been operated there
since 2015.

Having developed a novel idea, Deshusses and Nagar began to talk with Henry
Berger, Associate Director, Physical Sciences for the Office of Licensing &
Ventures (OLV) about what to do with this technology. Berger helped them to
navigate the Gates grant, assess their technology, and walked them through the
patenting process. OLV filed the patent applications, and the technology was
moved over to Rob Hallford, Director of New Ventures, and his team of Mentors-
in-Residence (MIRs) to help with the new company start-up process.

MIRs are entrepreneurs that have successfully raised capital for, built, sold,
or invested in start-up companies who then share their insights, experiences,
and numerous connections with a start-up project. Hallford assigned MIR Kevin
Bowles to help mentor the new start-up.

“When I first started to work with Marc and Kobe, I advised and guided them on
the business strategy, components, and execution as well as what will make the
business attractive to an investor and a partner. Additionally, I introduced
374Water to external service providers (such as legal and finance) as well as
“friendly” investors who could also provide them with additional input that
will increase the odds of their success,” Bowles said of the still ongoing
process of mentoring.

Now Deshusses, Nagar, and the 374Water team are moving forward with the
commercialization of their product, which they hope will be on the market as
early as 2020. They plan to initially start in Durham, with future plans to
make an impact across the developing world. Several commercial partners are
already on board and numerous wastewater treatment plants have shown interest
in collaborating and purchasing the product.

In time, 374Water hopes that their product will reduce the prevalence of
sewage-borne diseases in developing nations as well as the output of toxic
sludge worldwide.

If you would like to learn more about 374Water and the work they are doing,
you can meet them in person at OLV and I&E’s 2nd Annual Invented at Duke
celebration on November 8th from 4-7pm at Penn Pavilion.

More Entrepreneurship News

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

