

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Engineering-Mentored High School Robotics Team Earns Trip to State
Championship

March 20, 2023 | Miranda Volborth

Valence Robotics/Team 8429 aims to take the North Carolina state trophy in the
FIRST® Robotics Competition

For 2023, every _FIRST ®_ Robotics Competition (FRC) team has the same goal:
to build robots that can win points by picking up cones and cubes, and
accurately placing them at or on a target—then balancing itself on a swinging
platform alongside ally robots.

Every team builds its robot from the same central computer and power
distribution systems. The sensors that they incorporate are standard issue, as
are the encoders that make sense of the game arena.

How a team chooses to design and build the remainder of their robot using
those elements, however, is highly strategic, and the resulting variations are
what make FRC so much fun.

It’s also fun to win, so Valence Robotics has had a whole lot of fun over the
past several weekends.

The team, which is comprised of Triangle-area high school students from Cary
High School, Panther Creek, Green Level, the Hawbridge School, and the NC
School of Science and Mathematics, scored high enough at its district-level
events to advance to the state championship in Greenville, NC.

Duke Electrical and Computer Engineering Assistant Professor of the Practice
Rabih Younes serves as the team’s lead coach and mentor.

> "We were improving even as we were going through the competition."
>
> **Rabih Younes** | Assistant professor of the practice, Duke ECE

The team's robot, “Ion,” isn’t the brawniest robot on the field; the maximum
allowable weight is 120 pounds and the Valence Robotics robot punched in at
only 80.

But being more agile than its competitors is just one of many design choices
that have made this year’s team so successful. In fact, at its first district-
level championship event in Asheville, the team identified where its robot’s
performance was slowest—placing a cone on the highest of two poles—and
iterated on the design to give the robot just a bit more reach as soon as they
returned to home base in Durham.

“We were improving even as we were going through the competition,” said
Younes. “Some teams’ robots were deteriorating, but we were spotting
weaknesses and correcting them, becoming stronger.”

“It was really fun to see everyone in the stands yelling and cheering,” added
team member Daniel Zhang, who is the team’s business captain and leads its
marketing and fundraising efforts.

“I want to do my part in helping K-12 students in our community, especially
those who do not have access to the resources that Duke can easily provide,
like knowledgeable mentors and a physical space to meet and work,” said
Younes. “I’m grateful that the office of Dean Jerry Lynch has fully supported
our efforts from the start. The students are not only gaining technical skills
but also essential professional skills, like working efficiently and
effectively as a team. Their skills in this area are comparable to my senior
and graduate students’ skills, and I’m sure this experience will give them a
great advantage when applying to colleges and for scholarships.”

High school junior Twyla Olinger, who has participated in FRC since seventh
grade, describes the competition as “nerd sports.”

In January each year, FRC publishes a new manual for the upcoming season. The
manual describes the game, details the rules and gives the parameters for the
field of play. On the night that the game manual is released online, teams all
around the world tune in to watch and react together.

“It’s a huge community event,” said Olinger.

The competition season is compact. The teams train for months in advance of
the manual’s publication, but spring into design and build mode as soon as the
competition guidelines are released. From there, they have only about a month
and a half to finish building a competition-ready robot. Competition events
happen on the weekends and begin in early March with two district championship
events. The teams with the highest scores move on to the state championship
event. If they advance from there, they compete in a four-day world
championship event in mid-April.

“One point of _FIRST_ is getting kids involved in engineering processes before
college,” said Jack Fowler, the team’s technical captain, who has been
participating in FRC for four years. “So, we build through brainstorming,
design, initial prototyping … all the steps that a first-year engineering
student would learn in college.”

> "We build through brainstorming, design, initial prototyping… all the steps
> that a first-year engineering student would learn in college.”
>
> **Jack Fowler** | Technical captain, team Valence robotics

On the team of 34 students, there are plenty of people who are new to the
competition, too. They work on the pit crew, on the mechanical team, or as
“scouts,” who are the equivalent of industrial spies, examining other teams
for weaknesses to exploit and noting helpful strategies to imitate. (This
knowledge is especially valuable in the final stages of the competition when
teams form alliances to take down opponents.) It sounds dastardly, but it’s
all in good fun; “gracious professionalism” is a core value that the
organization seeks to cultivate in its members.

Students learn as they go, working with more experienced teammates and student
mentors studying electrical and computer engineering at Duke. Most of the
mentors belong to the Duke Robotics Club, including team photographer, Duke
sophomore Morgan Chu.

There are non-technical roles, too, stressed Zhang. Part of the competition
entails creating a brand, and teams depend on sponsorships to travel and buy
the materials they need. Members who have an entrepreneurial bent or are
marketing-savvy, therefore, are just as welcome as aspiring engineers.

When the 2023 season ends, Valence Robotics will refocus its energy on growing
and diversifying its membership, said Olinger. They have their eyes on some
local programming groups and LGBTQ+ organizations they want to reach out to.

But first, Greenville.

support the team

## Related News

May 07, 2020

### Designed for Women, by Women

September 12, 2018

### Rabih Younes: Integrating Machine Learning with Motion-Capturing Wearable
Devices

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

