

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Engineering Celebrates Class of 2018

May 11, 2018

Duke Engineering recognized more than 600 undergraduate and graduate
engineering students at a series of ceremonies and celebrations during the
2018 commencement weekend, May 11-13

Duke Engineering recognized more than 680 undergraduate and graduate
engineering students at a series of ceremonies and celebrations during the
2018 commencement weekend, May 11-13.

On Sunday, Dean Ravi V. Bellamkonda and senior class president Jason Ng spoke
at the undergraduate engineering school ceremony, and outstanding graduates
were recognized, including those graduating with departmental distinction and
as Pratt Research Fellows and NAE Grand Challenge Scholars. Diplomas were
given to 272 students. There were 285 undergraduates total for the Class of
2018, which includes students who earned degrees during the fall semester.

Watch Duke Engineering Class of 2018 videos »

Master's students were recognized at ceremonies on Friday and Saturday. The
Class of 2018 includes 66 PhD graduates and 125 Master of Science graduates.
Also, 163 Master of Engineering Management (MEM) and 47 Master of Engineering
(MEng) degrees were awarded during the 2017-2018 academic year.

All told, the Duke Engineering Class of 2018 has 686 graduates.

Duke Engineering student Lisa Ishigame He, who received her bachelor of
science in engineering degree on Sunday, sang the National Anthem and the Alma
Mater before a massive crowd of her fellow graduates and their loved ones
during the university commencement ceremony in Wallace Wade Stadium. The
commencement speaker was Tim Cook, CEO of Apple.

* * *

## More about the Class of 2018

  * PhD Awards
  * Master's Awards
  * Undergraduate Awards
  * Video
  * Photos

* * *

## PhD Awards

### Department of Biomedical Engineering

#### Doctoral Dissertation Award

  * Zachary Abzug
  * Ericka Moore **  
**

### Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

#### Doctoral Dissertation Award

  * Yajuan Duan
  * Ross Taggart

### Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

#### Outstanding Dissertation Award

  * Andrew Stevens **  
**

#### Outstanding Service to the Department Award

  * Felicia McGuire
  * Ugonna Ohiri

### Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

#### Doctoral Dissertation Award

  * Ioannis Kantaros
  * Ying Zhang

### Leadership Awards

#### Outstanding Service to the Engineering Graduate Student Council

  * Lauren Redfern
  * Joseph Camilo
  * Ugonna Uhiri

#### Outstanding Service to PhD Plus

  * Oscar Carrasco-Zevallos
  * Allison Lopatkin
  * Hannah Meredith
  * Lauren Czaplicki
  * Ugonna Ohiri

* * *

## Master's Awards

### Department of Biomedical Engineering

#### Excellence in Master of Science Studies

  * Kevin Chu
  * Sachin Govil

#### Excellence in Master of Engineering Studies

  * Sarah Dicker
  * Kathleen Carroll

### Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

#### Excellence in Master of Science Studies

  * Bingyu Lan

* * *

## Undergraduate Awards

### Walter J. Seeley Scholastic Award

  * Joseph Robert Lilien
  * Adithya Raghunathan
  * Harvey Yizhuang Shi
  * Ryan Anthony St. Pierre
  * Rachel S. Yang

_Presented annually by the Engineering Student Government to the member of the
graduating class who has achieved the highest scholastic average in all
subjects, and who has shown diligence in pursuit of an engineering education.
Initiated to honor the spirit of academic excellence and professional
diligence demonstrated by the late Dean Walter J. Seeley._

### Otto Meier, Jr. Tau Beta Pi Award

  * Brian Kwong-Kai Chan
  * Henry Pak-Hang Yuen

_Presented in recognition of Dr. Meier’s leadership in establishing the North
Carolina Gamma Chapter on January 10, 1948 and his continuous service until
April 19, 1975 as chapter advisor. Given annually to the graduating member of
Tau Beta Pi who best symbolizes the distinguished scholarship and exemplary
character required for membership._

### Pratt School of Engineering Student Service Award

  * Edwin Taylor Bodge
  * Jason Mick Ng

_Established in 1978 and given to graduating seniors who, by contributions of
time, effort and spirit, have significantly benefitted the community of the
Pratt School of Engineering._

### da Vinci Award

  * Harvey Yizhuang Shi
  * Rachel S. Yang

_Presented to the Biomedical Engineering student with the most outstanding
academic record, as determined by a faculty committee. Commemorates the
contributions of Leonardo da Vinci in laying the foundation of the mechanistic
study of human life._

### Helmholtz Award

  * Sydney Elisabeth Jeffs
  * Vincent Nevan Miao

_Given to graduating seniors who present the best research projects, as judged
by department faculty. Commemorates the work of Hermann von Helmholtz in
laying the foundation of biomedical engineering._

### Edward D. "Ned" Light Memorial Award

  * Harvey Yizhuang Shi

_Given to a Pratt Research Fellow in biomedical engineering with the best
engineering design project, as judged by a faculty committee. Established in
2012 in memory of Ned Light, who worked for at Duke 22 years–pioneering
research in real-time 3D ultrasound imaging and mentoring a host of
undergraduate students both in the lab and in life skills._

### Theo C. Pilkington Memorial Award

  * Anthony Nicola Schneider

_Established in 1993 by the Whitaker Foundation as an endowment award in
memory of Dr. Pilkington, founding chairman of the Department of Biomedical
Engineering. The recipient is selected at the end of the junior year and the
award is given in recognition of outstanding perseverance and accomplishment
in the study of biomedical engineering._

### American Society of Civil Engineering Outstanding Senior Prize

  * Christopher Joseph Northrup

_Presented annually to a graduating civil engineering senior in recognition of
an exceptional, positive impact on the Duke student chapter of the American
Society of Civil Engineering._

### William Brewster Snow Environmental Engineering Award

  * Karyn Elizabeth Saunders

_Established in 1979 and presented annually to seniors who have demonstrated
academic excellence, interest, and enthusiasm in the study of environmental
engineering._

### Aubrey E. Palmer Award

  * Michelle Anne Moffa
  * Karyn Elizabeth Saunders

_Established in 1980 and presented annually to a civil engineering or
environmental engineering senior in recognition of outstanding academic
achievement. Selection is made by the faculty of the Department of Civil and
Environmental Engineering._

### Eric I. Pas Award

  * Michelle Anne Moffa
  * Delaney Colleen Thompson

_Established in 1998 in memory of Dr. Pas, former director of undergraduate
studies in Civil and Environmental Engineering, and presented to the
graduating civil or environmental engineering senior judged by the faculty to
have conducted the most outstanding independent study project._

### David Randall Fuller Prize for Achievement in Electrical and Computer
Engineering

  * David Kevin Bi

_Presented annually to the graduating senior who has shown the most
improvement in academic performance over the first three years._

### George Sherrerd III Memorial Award in Electrical and Computer Engineering
**  
**

  * Jihane Bettahi
  * Edwin Taylor Bodge

_Awarded annually to the senior in electrical and computer engineering who, in
the opinion of the Electrical and Computer Engineering Faculty, who has
attained the highest level of scholastic achievement in all subjects and has
simultaneously has rendered significant service to the Pratt School of
Engineering and the university at large. Established in 1958 by the parents of
Class of 1955 graduate George Sherrerd III, to recognize outstanding
undergraduate scholarship._

### Charles Ernest Seager Memorial Award

  * James Louis Doherty
  * Aditya Srinivasan

_Recognizes the most outstanding undergraduate research project and
presentation, as judged by the faculty in Electrical and Computer Engineering
as part of the Graduation with Distinction presentation session. Established
in 1958 by the widow and friends of Charles Ernest Seager, a graduate of the
Class of 1955._

### Charles Rowe Vail Memorial Outstanding Undergraduate Teaching Award

  * Michael Yurievich Kuryshev

_Established in 1997 by former students and colleagues of Charles Vail, a
graduate of the class of 1937, professor from 1939-1967, and chair of the
Department of Electrical Engineering from 1956-1964, recognizes the most
outstanding undergraduate teaching assistant in the Department of Electrical
and Computer Engineering._

### Pi Tau Sigma Scholarship Award

  * Noah Ben Youkilis

_Established in memory of T.C. Heyward, Sr., and presented annually by Pi Tau
Sigma to an outstanding senior in Mechanical Engineering at Duke. Selection by
a committee of the engineering faculty is based on academic excellence,
engineering ability, and leadership._

### Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science Faculty Award

  * Ryan Spencer Cox
  * Tara Yeo Davis

_Presented annually in recognition of academic excellence to the graduating
Mechanical Engineering seniors who have attained the highest level of
scholastic achievement, as determined by the faculty._

### Graduating with Departmental Distinction

#### Biomedical Engineering

* _Howard G. Clark Award recipient_

  * Gabriel Jakub Antoniak*
  * Danielle Giverny Dawes
  * Arjun Divyang Desai*
  * Ryan Shaun Gallagher
  * Sydney Elisabeth Jeffs
  * Alim Ladha
  * Jihong Lee
  * Edward Dilong Liang*
  * Vincent Nevan Miao
  * Kevin Jacob Mutchnick
  * Pablo Ortiz Escovar
  * Morgan Jill Ringel
  * Andrea Helen Rossman
  * Anna Ruta*
  * Harvey Yizhuang Shi
  * Joseph James Tharayil
  * Brandon Joon-Sun Thio
  * Emelina Prevost Vienneau*
  * Christine Wang
  * Yuxiao Wei*
  * Karen Ling Xu*
  * Rachel S. Yang*
  * Ziyi Zhang

#### Civil and Environmental Engineering

  * Michelle Anne Moffa
  * Karyn Elizabeth Saunders
  * Delaney Colleen Thompson

#### Electrical and Computer Engineering

  * Jihane Bettahi
  * James Louis Doherty
  * Aditya Srinivasan
  * Henry Pak-Hang Yuen
  * Lucy Zhang

#### Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

  * Jin Soo Byun
  * Erin Camile Cleveland
  * Ryan Spencer Cox
  * Catherine May Farmer
  * Lisa Ishigame He
  * Steven Kyle Jacobson
  * Sean Thomas Kelly
  * Stuart Macrae Montgomery
  * Simen Omholt Jensen
  * Maya Sonal Patel
  * S. James Root
  * Noah Ben Youkilis

* * *

## Video

  * All Class of 2018 videos »
  * Undergraduate (BSE) ceremony »
  * Master of Engineering Management (MEM) ceremony »
  * Master of Science (MS) ceremony »
  * Master of Engineering (MEng) ceremony »
  * Distributed Master of Engineering Management (d-MEM) ceremony »

* * *

## Photos

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

