

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Engineering Invaded by Robots

June 10, 2015

A flurry of newly hired professors launches Duke Robotics

If you’ve ever dreamed of exploring the Serengeti by drone or building a real-
life medical C-3PO, Duke has you covered.

Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering has made several new faculty hires in the
past few years to create a group that will position the school to be a
competitive leader in one of the most important and interesting fields of the
21st century—robotics.

The newly formed Duke Robotics group draws from three departments in Pratt and
from many other departments and institutions across campus, like the Duke
Institute for Brain Sciences and the Department of Computer Science. An
interdisciplinary field by nature, robotics has many faculty members with dual
appointments in seemingly disparate fields.

Among the new faculty members are Kris Hauser (MEMS/ECE), who focuses on the
planning and control of autonomous robots; Mary “Missy” Cummings (MEMS), an
expert on drones, autonomous systems engineering, boredom in human operators,
and human/robot interfaces; Michael Zavlanos (MEMS), who works on hybrid
solution techniques and the interface of control theory with the discrete
science of networks and graphs; and George Konidaris (CS/ECE), who works on
robots that learn simple tasks and integrate them into more complex decision-
making.

To give the new group the space and support needed to thrive, the North
Building is being renovated into a specialized research laboratory dedicated
to robotics. The higher ceiling of the facility provides the group ample room
to use drones and other robots, and the space will be designed to meet their
specifications.

Although renovations had not yet begun, the robotics group recently opened the
doors to its new building to give a tour and describe some of the research
they are working on. Check out some photos from the event below and learn more
about their exciting projects.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

