

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Engineering: Then & Now

February 20, 2023

As part of National Engineers Week, take a look at how Duke Engineering has
changed and grown over the years

A storage closet on the top floor of Duke's Nello L. Teer Building houses an
archival treasure: a collection of DukEngineer magazines, dating all the way
back to 1940.

The crumbling construction paper cover of the earliest issue was illustrated
by hand and stapled over folded sheets of type. The student-edited
magazine—which was much more of a newsletter at the beginning—detailed the
innermost workings of engineering life at Duke, from field trips to social
functions, and featured a gossip column called The Dope. (“Robinson is in love
… also on the wagon,” reported the first column.)

The magazine has been continuously published ever since and has always been
written and produced by students. Taken as a whole, the collection offers
valuable insights into the countless ways in which Duke Engineering has grown
and changed over time.

## 1947/now

Civil engineering students still learn a classic skill: surveying, which
yields critical information about the terrain and helps engineers understand
how to plan a construction project. A student who attended Duke in the 1940s
would be surprised to see how Duke Engineering’s own construction projects
have mushroomed across West Campus, to house our growing community. Today, the
Pratt School of Engineering occupies nearly 400,000 net square feet in 18
buildings on and near Duke’s campus. The newest of these is the Wilkinson
Building, which features four collaborative research “neighborhoods” and a
student-focused Learning Commons.

## 1950/now

  
“It is my opinion that the sooner humans make a trip to the moon, the better
the condition of the world will be,” mused civil engineering student Roland
Woodfield in 1951. “A trip to the moon, or possibly other planets, would be of
such great world interest that nations would stop fighting each other and
concentrate on exploring new unknowns.”

Woodfield died in 2021, at the age of 92. Can you imagine the enthusiastic
conversations he might have had with recent MEMS 4+1 graduate Patrick Wilson,
whose systems engineering work with NASA enabled the Artemis capsule to travel
to the moon and back?

## 1967/now

The April 1967 issue of DukEngineer told the news of a new department at Duke:
“bio-medical engineering.” It was one of the first of its kind in the nation.

“This new division will not be cut off from the other branches of engineering
but will in fact have its basic success dependent upon its interdisciplinary
activity, including its close association with the Medical Center,” explained
John Judd ’69 in the article that he wrote to introduce what is now called
BME.

Interdisciplinary collaboration and close association with the medical center
have remained hallmarks of the program and have grown stronger over the years,
keeping pace with the program’s excellent reputation among peers. Duke BME is
ranked #3 in the nation for its undergraduate program and #7 in graduate
programs, and the department is recognized as the birthplace of real-time
ultrasound imaging.

## 1979/now

  
Duke Engineering entered the Energy Efficient Vehicle Competition in 1979. The
team’s car, the DEVIL (Duke Efficient Vehicle for Innovative Learning) was a
three-wheeled hatchback with gull-wing doors. The DEVIL competed against
thirty other teams at the General Motors proving ground in Milford, Michigan,
but unfortunately experienced debilitating microcomputer malfunctions that
removed it from competition.

The DEVIL’s descendant, Maxwell, has fared much better. On July 21, 2018, the
Duke Electric Vehicles team set a new Guinness World Record for fuel
efficiency. Maxwell, which is a hydrogen-powered vehicle, set the new bar at
14,573 MPG.

## 1989/now

  
“Bill Walker used a sophisticated headset which allowed him to view a computer
screen in three dimensions,” explained the caption in the 1989 photo above.
Walker was a senior biomedical engineering student and NSF ERC fellow,
developing biodegradable stents for use in heart surgery. He was hoping to
develop a porous surface for the device through which drugs could be delivered
to the patient.

Now, students in the Intelligent Internet of Things lab directed by ECE
faculty member Maria Gorlatova develop simulations assisted by augmented
reality that help train doctors to perform complex procedures on delicate
organs, including brains and eyes.

More from DukEngineer Magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

