

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Engineering Lab Offers Public School Science Teachers Nanotechnology
Experience

September 15, 2021 | Elizabeth Witherspoon

Stefan Zauscher’s lab provides hands-on summer research experiences for two
public school science teachers, reaping benefits in the process

The best teachers always keep learning. They renew their passion, strengthen
their knowledge base and polish their skills at every opportunity, then
transfer it all back to the classroom.

Stefan Zauscher’s lab in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering
& Materials Science (MEMS) at Duke gave two high school science teachers such
an opportunity this summer.

Through a National Science Foundation-supported Research Experience for
Teachers (RET) program in partnership with the Research Triangle
Nanotechnology Network (RTNN), they each spent five weeks developing
microfluidic shear-wave sensor devices (i.e., quartz crystal resonators
combined with tiny channels to control fluids for biosensing applications),
including experiencing what it’s like to suit up and work in the cleanroom of
Duke’s Shared Materials Instrumentation Facility (SMIF). Labs at North
Carolina State University hosted an additional nine teachers for this year’s
RET-RTNN program for a total of 11 across the two schools.

> “The greatest benefit is being able to share the experience of what it is
> like to do research with my students.”
>
> **Josh Hartzog** | Science teacher, East Chapel Hill High School

One of the two teachers in Zauscher’s lab worked on designing, fabricating and
testing different microfluidic channel geometries for use in the sensor
devices. In addition to receiving training in photolithographic processes, he
also learned about fluorescence microscopy and image analysis. The other
teacher focused on determining whether an immunoassay (biochemical test) could
work with the sensor to measure the concentration of large molecules in blood
plasma samples.

The microfluidic shear-wave sensor holds promise for use in clinical
diagnostics and point-of-care medical settings.

“The greatest benefit is being able to share the experience of what it is like
to do research with my students,” said Josh Hartzog, who teaches Advanced
Placement Biology and Physical Science at East Chapel Hill High School. “When
students are conducting their own experiments and their results aren't as
expected or something doesn't work, I will be able to relate to them that this
is the norm when doing research and that the process is iterative and takes
time.”

Kevin Lloyd, a grade 9-12 teacher for Durham Public Schools Hospital School at
Duke University Medical Center, agrees.

“The five-week RET program is unique in that there is much more time to learn
and understand the science. That will make a big difference for me in how well
I’m able to teach these concepts to my students,” said Lloyd. “It was much
longer than most professional development opportunities I’ve had, so we did
get to see what setbacks and challenges in the lab are like.”

Hartzog and Lloyd also had successes and made useful contributions through
their research that Zauscher said moved his lab’s project forward. At the end
of the program in July, all 11 participating teachers presented posters about
their research at a nanotechnology symposium hosted by RTNN at NC State.

The experience also served as professional development for Zauscher’s own PhD
students who developed experiments, trained the teachers and supervised their
projects. Sam (Yicheng) Zhao, a PhD student who is currently in China,
designed the microfluidic systems the teachers executed and communicated with
them virtually. PhD student Daniel French helped with cleanroom training and
day-to-day operations in the lab.

“I think there is a benefit in general, in terms of the enrichment. You have
someone in the lab who enjoys learning something new and new insights from
them feeding back to us,” said Zauscher, a MEMS professor, who is also
director of the Duke Materials Initiative. “I think the benefits go both ways.
It’s an interesting social interaction and it feels good to contribute to STEM
education at all levels.”

Zauscher added that he enjoys participating in the RET-RTNN and has now
welcomed teachers into his lab for the second summer, the first being in 2019,
because the program is so well-run. It doesn’t require him to develop special
curricula and the support by the staff at RTNN, Director Jacob Jones and
Associate Director Maude Cuchiara, enables his lab group to easily integrate
the RET activities into their summer plans.

Click here to learn more about Research Experiences for Teachers through RTNN.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

