

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke University Names New Engineering School Dean

January 26, 2016

Ravi Bellamkonda, a renowned biomedical engineer, will be the new Vinik Dean

_FromDuke Today_

Ravi Bellamkonda, a renowned biomedical engineer who has led one of the top-
ranked departments in the country, will be the new Vinik Dean of the Pratt
School of Engineering at Duke University, President Richard H. Brodhead and
Provost Sally Kornbluth announced Tuesday.

Bellamkonda is the Wallace H. Coulter Professor and chair of the Wallace H.
Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering at Georgia Institute of
Technology and Emory University, a unique collaboration between the two
Atlanta institutions at which he holds a joint faculty appointment. His Duke
appointment, which is effective Aug. 1, comes after an international search
chaired by Jeff Glass, professor of electrical and computer engineering.
Bellamkonda succeeds Tom Katsouleas, who was named provost of the University
of Virginia in 2015.

"The ascent of the Pratt School of Engineering has been an important
development in Duke's ability to generate knowledge in service to society, as
engineering plays a critical role in addressing virtually every contemporary
challenge," Brodhead said. "Ravi Bellamkonda has a record of outstanding
personal accomplishment and visionary leadership. Working with Pratt faculty
and students, he will continue Duke Engineering's remarkable trajectory and
will be an excellent partner across the university."

“Ravi Bellamkonda has led many innovative programs that have brought together
the intellectual resources of two great universities. This ability to enable
productive collaborations bodes well for his ability to lead in the highly
collaborative Duke environment,” said Kornbluth. “I also want to express my
special gratitude to Jeff Glass and the search committee for their thorough
and diligent work throughout this process, and also to George Truskey, who
stepped in on short notice to serve so ably as interim dean.”

Added search committee chair Glass, "We are very excited to have someone of
Ravi's caliber joining Pratt. His leadership experience is outstanding and
will enable him to continue the upward trajectory Pratt has enjoyed in recent
years."

As chair, Bellamkonda helped develop programs to sustain deep student learning
and entrepreneurship at the undergraduate level. He also directed an NIH-
funded training grant on the Rational Design of Biomaterials, initiated a
novel graduate leadership program for bioengineering graduate students, and is
co-principal investigator for the Emory-Georgia Tech- Morehouse College
Clinical and Translational Science Award (CTSA) grant.

Bellamkonda’s own research involves an exploration of the interplay of
biomaterials and the nervous system for designing novel brain-machine
interfaces, using immunomodulation to foster nerve repair and design devices
for brain tumor therapy. It is supported by grants from the National
Institutes of Health, the National Science Foundation, Ian’s Friends
Foundation, Georgia Research Alliance and the Marcus Foundation.

“I am excited about the Pratt School’s future, and our ability to continue
building an innovative engineering school where scholarship, inquiry and
entrepreneurship are valued,” said Bellamkonda. “Pratt’s faculty are thought
leaders in areas of critical importance to our economy, security, health and
the environment. We can help shape the future by fostering an experiential
engineering curriculum that moves away from a ‘content-mastery’ emphasis,
toward a ‘learning-mastery’ mindset.”

A graduate of Osmania University (India) who received his Ph.D. from Brown
University and did post-doctoral training at MIT, Bellamkonda started his
career at Case Western Reserve before moving to the Coulter Department of
Biomedical Engineering in 2003. From 2010-2013, he served as associate vice
president for research at Georgia Tech, where he led programs to enhance
translational research, technology transfer and programs that encourage
innovation in research and education and faculty development.

Bellamkonda is the president of the American Institute for Biological and
Medical Engineering (AIMBE), a policy advocacy group, and is a frequent
consultant on biomedical engineering research and education. He’s the
recipient of numerous honors, including the Clemson Award for Applied Research
from the Society for Biomaterials, the EUREKA award from the National Cancer
Institute, a CAREER award from the National Science Foundation, and the best
professor award from the Georgia Tech BME students.

Bellamkonda and his wife, Lalita Kaligotla, have two children, son Mihir and
daughter Ameya.

With 1,240 undergraduates and 960 graduate students in five degree programs,
Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering is a recognized global leader in
undergraduate education through initiatives such as the National Academy of
Engineering Grand Challenge Scholars Program and Pratt Research Fellows.

The school’s graduate programs have grown by nearly 30 percent over the past
five years, and external research funding has more than doubled over the past
decade, to more than $76 million in total expenditures in 2015. The Pratt
School is home to major research centers focused on areas including
biomolecular and tissue engineering, metamaterials, photonics, environmental
implications of nanotechnology, materials science, materials genomics and
quantum computing, among others.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

