

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Biomaterials Symposium Highlights Vibrant Research Community

August 23, 2019

Annual event features innovative research from biomaterials labs across Duke
Engineering

The BME Biomaterials Symposium is an excellent place to start if you want to
learn about the variety of biomaterials research within Duke University. With
featured projects using novel materials for everything from healing wounds to
boosting the effectiveness of stem cell therapies, the annual event hosted by
Duke Biomedical Engineering each August provides PhD students with a chance to
present their research to faculty and their peers.

“The goal for this symposium is to bring the Duke biomaterials community
closer together so we can learn what others in our field are working on,” says
event co-founder Tatiana Segura, a professor of biomedical engineering at
Duke. “This year’s symposium was a great success in that regard.”

Duke Engineering is home to a diverse research community with a longstanding
focus on biomaterials, a discipline that involves studying and designing
synthetic materials and devices that can interact with biological systems.
Multiple labs are focused on creating diverse types of biomaterials, including
nanomaterials, immune-active materials, soft materials and scaffolds for
tissue engineering. Others have developed implantable devices that can help
deliver genes, drugs and even immune therapies.

The 2019 Biomaterials Symposium featured presentations from students in labs
run by Tatiana Segura, Ashutosh Chilkoti, Joel Collier, Ravi Bellamkonda,
Jennifer West (BME/MEMS) and Shyni Varghese (BME/MEMS/Orthopedics). Two
workshops also gave students tips about data visualization and statistics and
experimental design.

At the end of the event, faculty and student attendees voted on the top two
presentations and a People’s Choice award:

  * **Lucas Shores** , a PhD student in the Collier lab, won first prize for
    his presentation, titled “A Nanofiber-based IL17 Peptide Vaccine for
    Treatment of Imiquimod-Induced Psoriasis,” which described his research
    using nanofiber-based biomaterials to treat plaque psoriasis.
  * **Samagya Banskota** , a PhD student in the Chilkoti lab, received second
    place for her presentation, “Genetically Encoded Intrinsically Disordered
    Zwitterionic Polypeptides (ZIPPs) for Drug Delivery.”
  * **Yining Liu** , a PhD student in the Segura lab, won the People’s Choice
    competition for her presentation, “Attenuated Macrophage Inflammatory
    Response in Microporous Annealed Particle (MAP) Gels.”

“It was great to see so many of our biomaterials labs participate. Even though
many of us work in the same building in the same field, we can often build
communities within our labs and not with each other,” says Shores, who also
helped organize the event. “The biomaterials symposium gives a little glimpse
into what your neighbors are doing, and I think these types of events can be
the perfect place to get you thinking about the same questions in different
ways.”

Learn more about materials research at Duke Engineering

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

