

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke's Data Network

March 3, 2017

Ask faculty what’s special about Duke Engineering, and one word comes up again
and again: “Collaboration."

In a place where engineers can (and do) simply cross the street or even the
hallway to connect with Medical Center clinicians, statisticians, or energy
experts, it’s perhaps not surprising that Duke’s data-science research is
literally all over the map—with teams coming together from across disciplines
to apply analytics to knotty problems in healthcare, environmental
sustainability, materials discovery and more.

“In the information age, data science is key to advancing progress on a number
of globally important fronts,” says Ravi Bellamkonda, dean of engineering. “We
recognize that strength in data science is a strategic advantage in many
disciplines, which is why we’re expanding our already outstanding corps of
faculty both in engineering and across the university.”

“Duke faculty are known for working across department and school lines, but
over the past five years **we’ve created a number of mechanisms specifically
to connect our data scientists with faculty who can tap into their expertise
to solve problems in other fields** ,” adds Lawrence Carin, professor in ECE
and vice provost for research at Duke.

Duke Engineering professors have played key roles in these efforts, including
the Information Initiative at Duke—a hub of research and teaching where
“superb data science can be thoughtfully focused to transform every discipline
in the university,” as director Robert Calderbank puts it—and the Duke
Quantitative Initiative, launched to hire up to 10 new faculty in the broad
area of quantitative sciences with the express goal of strengthening cross-
university connections, particularly with Duke Health. Duke MEDx, a new joint
initiative of Duke’s engineering and medical schools, is also spurring
innovation through seed funding for collaborative data-driven research.

**“Duke is in an unusually strong position to make advances in the data
science of health,”** Carin says, pointing to collaborations with the
university’s top-10 medical school and nationally recognized health system on
projects ranging from early disease diagnosis to the social science of
population health management.

Engineering students are intimately involved in the work, too—for example, a
new Mobile Health Application Prototyping Group launched this semester by the
Duke Institute for Health Innovation is pairing physicians with undergraduates
to develop digital apps for real-world mobile health care and clinical
research projects.

Broader afield, Duke engineers are diving into data-based explorations of the
microbiome with biologists and statisticians, examining solar capacity with
colleagues from Duke’s Energy Initiative, and sifting data to discover new
materials, among others. Here are just a few examples of how our faculty are
bringing big data expertise to bear upon big questions:

  * Predicting Patient Outcomes
  * Data-based Diagnosis
  * Teaming the Microbiome
  * An App for Autism Screening
  * Interpretable Machine Learning
  * Demystifying Deep Neural Networks
  * Analyzing Art
  * Materials Discovery
  * A Global Approach to Nanoinformatics
  * Understanding Complex Infrastructure Systems
  * Data-Based Models Inform Environmental Policy

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

