

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# $5 Million Grant Will Fund New Laboratory for Environmental Analysis

October 7, 2019

Duke University has received a five-year, $5 million grant from the National
Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS) to develop a new
environmental analysis laboratory

_From theNicholas School of the Environment_

Duke University has received a five-year, $5 million grant from the National
Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS) to develop a new
environmental analysis laboratory.

The new lab will support cutting-edge research by National Institutes of
Health (NIH) investigators into the impacts the environment has on human
health.

It’s estimated that between 70% and 90% of chronic diseases, including cancer
and cardiovascular disease, are influenced by exposure to contaminants in our
environment. Measuring individual exposures to these chemicals—particularly to
mixtures of them—can be quite challenging, however.

The Duke Environmental Analysis Laboratory (DEAL) will help bridge this gap by
providing NIH investigators with access to specialized analytical equipment
and support from experts who are knowledgeable in using mass spectrometry to
characterize unknown chemicals in environmental samples.

“This grant will allow us to equip and staff a state-of-the-art research
laboratory to support environmental health research, and help develop new
tools and methods to measure contaminant mixtures and understand the risks
they pose,” said Heather S. Stapleton, Dan and Bunny Gabel Associate Professor
of Environmental Health at Duke’s Nicholas School of the Environment.

Stapleton will co-direct DEAL with Lee Ferguson, associate professor of civil
and environmental engineering. They currently co-direct the Duke Center for
Environmental Exposomics, and the Michael and Annie Falk Foundation
Environmental Exposomics Laboratory at the Nicholas School.

Having three affiliated research facilities, each with a different but
complementary mission, positions Duke as a national leader in the fast-growing
field of environmental exposomics, said Ferguson, who holds faculty
appointments at both the Pratt School of Engineering and the Nicholas School.

In environmental exposomics, scientists use advanced analytical methods and
high-powered computational resources to identify and characterize the vast
number of chemicals in environmental samples and help evaluate their impacts
on human health.

“DEAL will allow us to build on our existing strengths in persistent organic
pollutants, emerging organic pollutants and toxic metals, and extend our
capabilities in new directions,” Ferguson said.

A major focus of the lab will be to offer expert advice and technical
assistance to scientists conducting environmental health or environmental
epidemiology studies funded by NIH, the parent institute of NIEHS. As part of
this assistance, the Duke lab will provide computational resources to support
sample tracking and data transfer among NIH’s nationwide network of Human
Health Exposure Analysis Resource hubs.

Another main focus will be to devise more accurate methods for measuring
contaminants found in samples of water, air, soil, dust and diverse other
materials collected in the field.

The lab’s high-resolution mass spectrometers will allow the Duke team to
conduct targeted analyses of these samples for a broad range of contaminants,
including phthalates, flame retardants, and per- and polyfluorinated alkyl
substances (PFAS). They also will help the researchers measure any new or
emerging contaminants the samples contain, and – through non-targeted analyses
– estimate all the chemicals that might be present in one sample.

“We anticipate that DEAL will serve as a key resource to ongoing and new
environmental health research studies nationwide,” Stapleton said.

One aspect of the research she is particularly excited about is the
development and testing of personal sampling devices, such as chemical-
absorbing silicone wristbands that can measure a person’s exposure to
environmental pollutants in their daily lives.

In addition to Stapleton and Ferguson, the core research staff at the new lab
will include Heileen Hsu-Kim, professor of civil and environmental
engineering, and research scientist Gordon Getzinger.  
  
Funding for the lab comes through NIEHS grant #U2CES030851.

###

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

