

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Motorsports Outraces the Pandemic

April 30, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

Despite a year full of obstacles, the Duke Motorsports team built an 80-MPH
racecar from the ground up

There may not have been as much fanfare at the end of the semester as the
members of Duke Motorsports are used to, but that doesn’t make the successes
any less sweet.

Every year, a few dozen ambitious students tackle the challenge of building a
Formula-style race car from scratch. While the previous cars and lessons
learned are used as a template, many obstacles remain as the students work to
implement design changes and extended validations as a new car takes shape.

This year was no exception, even in the face of additional obstacles posed by
COVID-19 restrictions. The team’s workspace was limited to a capacity of five,
and any pre-organized gathering of more than one person needed to be
registered and approved within the UCAE DukeGroups system. While not
insurmountable, it was a far cry from the norm of students showing up at all
hours of the day and night to work hands-on in groups.

But as they say, every time a door is closed, a window is open. In this case,
the opening came in the form of having more time for the members to reach
further into the design and validation areas of the race car. Analyzing the
vehicle's overall performance and compliance before jumping in allowed the
team to implement many new changes they were hoping to work on prior to the
pandemic.

So when, in the final weeks of the semester, 10 of the team’s members received
permission from the university to take their work and test it out at the North
Carolina Center for Automotive Research, the opportunity sounded extra
exciting.

“In my eyes, this was one of the most valuable years the team has had since
its inception at Duke,” said Edgar Uribe III, a graduating mechanical
engineering major and leader of the team. “The team currently has about 50
active members, most of whom had never seen a running Formula-style car
before. With no competition last year, and a high likelihood of not attending
initial competition schedules this year either, it was crucial that all the
students got to see the process of designing, building and testing from
beginning to end. As hard as the COVID limitations on Duke’s campus made that,
everybody on the team put in their best effort and we made it to the end of
the school year with a running vehicle to test.”

In normal years, the team would have taken their race car out to the test
track earlier in the year with an eye toward taking it to competitions in the
second week of May. But given that the team often wasn’t sure whether or not
they’d get a working car completed by the end of the year at all, the progress
they made was remarkable.

Several new technologies were implemented into the car. A motor was used to
turn the shifter on the engine. Sensors determined the position on the
throttle pedal to better control acceleration. More depth was added to the
suspension tuning techniques to optimize performance for varying events. And
with the exception of the shaft on the shifter shearing in the team’s initial
attempt to shift while driving the vehicle, all of the new technologies proved
successful.

“When the day began, we had problems in our shifting mechanism, chain drive
and aero package,” said Uribe. “However, after analyzing and remedying those
issues, we were able to run our vehicle for a sustained period of time. We ran
a full competition-style endurance run of more than 13 miles at sustained race
speeds, reaching a top speed of almost 80 miles per hour on the track.

“Although it doesn’t look like we’ll get to compete this summer, I hope I’ve
left the team in a better spot than when I joined my freshman year and that
the team continues to grow not only in size, but in knowledge and
understanding of the car and the competition as a whole.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

