

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Women Share Their STEM Journeys

January 31, 2017 | By April Dudash

Employees and alumni discuss science, tech, engineering and math careers with
students

from Duke Today

“So how many of you in this room, if you go into a STEM career, will be the
first person in your family to be in that sort of career?”

Sherilynn Black, director of the Office of Biomedical Graduate Diversity in
Duke’s School of Medicine, directed the question to about 20 Duke female-
identified students on Wednesday afternoon. Most raised their hands.

The conversation in Penn Pavilion was part of the second annual SHE (Share,
Hear, Empower) Luncheon for Duke female-identified student leaders. The panel
discussion covered issues facing women and women of color in science,
technology, engineering and math (STEM) careers. About 25 students and staff
members attended the event, which was organized by the Duke Center for
Multicultural Affairs. A panel of Duke employees and alumni shared advice from
their career paths.

Johnna Frierson, director of diversity and inclusion in Duke’s Pratt School of
Engineering, moderated the discussion. Before the event began, she reminded
the audience that their academic and career goals are important and worthy of
pursuit.

“There is space for you,” Frierson said about women working in STEM fields.

Students asked panelists about negotiating salaries, advice they would give to
younger versions of themselves, how to maintain a person’s identity in the
workplace, and how to confront a peer when there is a communication issue.

Here are some takeaways from the discussion:

“Sometimes people just say things in a really off-hand manner, not really
intending to offend a specific person. … Have that one-on-one honest
conversation with the person sooner rather than later because if these things
fester, the work environment can change permanently for you. It just keeps
festering. Maybe it’s just my nature, I’m not very confrontational, but I’d
much rather not do it in a big group setting because that puts someone in a
very defensive mode and it just doesn’t solve the problem. And at the end of
the day, this is your team, so it’s not one interaction and it’s over. You
have to work with this group for weeks, months, years, so look at long-term
solutions.”

**Rukmini Balu**  
Chief of staff, Office of Duke Chancellor for Health Affairs Gene Washington  
\--

“When I started graduate school, none of the schools that I applied to ever
had a black female to get a Ph.D. in their department, none of them, and I’m
not that old. And every single school that I went to, I remember being really
excited about what the possibilities were and going on these interviews and
beginning to realize, wait a second, there is literally no one that looks like
me in any of these departments. … I really had to dig deep and work a lot,
really hard, to know that I belonged, and no matter what you all end up doing,
you might be the first female. You might be the youngest person. You might be
the first person of your race. You might be the first generation in your
family. That is OK, because there are lots of us that have held that role in
some capacity in our lives.”

**Sherilynn Black**  
Director, Office of Biomedical Graduate Diversity, Duke School of Medicine  
Assistant professor of the practice in Medical Education, Duke School of
Medicine  
Completed her doctoral studies in Duke’s Department of Neurobiology  
\--

“Women usually don’t ask for things the way men do. When you are offered a
job, sometimes the reaction from women is, ‘Oh, thanks! You got me a job! I’ll
take whatever.’ And men are like, ‘I’m looking a little first, so you need to
bump up my offer by this amount. If not, I won’t take it.’ It’s a lot up to us
to ask for what we want. I have found that sometimes it’s easier than it
looks. … Just ask for what you really want and be clear about your
expectations.”

**Erika Franco**  
Duke alumna (graduated with a master’s in engineering management in 2008)  
Senior test engineer in IoT Vertical Solutions Group, Cisco Systems Inc.  
\--

“Make sure women are not responsible for the life part and men for work. Make
sure whoever your partner is, wherever you go, there is a balance. In other
words, if you want to move, that’s great, but make sure it’s not always to
improve your partner’s situation.”

**Negin Martin**  
Former Duke postdoctoral fellow  
Acting director of Viral Vector Core Lab, National Institute of Environmental
Health Sciences, National Institutes of Health  
\--

“I don’t purposefully use my Brooklyn accent. It comes out when I’m angry. And
I can do the Chinese accent, too, and I love doing it. I think that we all
have multiple dimensions to ourselves. It’s strategic, really. If you’re able
to morph, it’s part of a dimension of you and it’s nothing bad. … I encounter
this a lot of the time in the classroom. When somebody looks at me, it’s not
uncommon for students to see me and not expect me to talk the way that I do
and to be as tough as I am. … You start getting more and more comfortable with
all these dimensions that make you who you are.”

**Minna Ng**  
Assistant professor of the practice, Duke Institute for Brain Sciences  
Assistant academic dean, Duke Trinity College of Arts and Sciences  
\--

“My advice to my younger self would be to not be afraid to fail. Embrace those
challenges and not be so afraid to fail that you’re too afraid to try,
specifically in the sciences. If you’re in research, your experiment is going
to fail many times, actually, before you get to that successful place and
before you get to that place of celebration. … I think there’s a quote someone
said, that ‘Perfection is the enemy of greatness.’ To my younger self, I would
really say it’s not about perfection. It’s about being courageous in the
decision that you’re making.”

**Johnna Frierson**  
Director of diversity and inclusion, Duke Pratt School of Engineering

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

