

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Signs Exclusive Licensing Agreement with Leading Genome Editing Company

December 4, 2014

Duke University has signed an exclusive licensing agreement with Editas
Medicine, a leading genome editing company, for genetic engineering
technologies developed in the lab of Charles Gersbach, assistant professor of
biomedical engineering.

The agreement focuses on Gersbach’s work with genome engineering technologies
known as CRISPR/Cas9 and TALENs.

CRISPR/Cas9 is an adaptive immune system found in bacteria that cuts out
pieces of viral DNA and transplants them into the bacterium’s own DNA to
defend against future re-infections. Not long ago, researchers discovered they
could hijack this system to edit the sequence of the human genome. Similarly,
the TALEN (transcription activator-like effector nuclease) technology uses
proteins derived from bacteria to create new editing enzymes that can target
and modify almost any gene sequence in any organism.

The agreement allows broad use of the technology developed in Gersbach’s lab
for the prevention or treatment of human disease. To this point, Gersbach’s
most notable work in that field is on Duchenne muscular dystrophy, a genetic
disease affecting one in 3,500 newborn males that currently has no approved
treatment and causes muscular deterioration, paralysis and eventual death,
usually by age 25. Gersbach’s work is focused on using gene editing to correct
the mutated gene that causes the disease, in contrast to treating the
resulting symptoms of the disease. Gersbach has also pioneered the use of both
CRISPR/Cas9 and TALEs for turning on genes in a way that could be used to
treat degenerative disorders or compensate for genetic defects.

“Charlie’s deep expertise in both genome editing and in this area of biology
is a tremendous asset as we begin to understand how to apply genome editing
technologies to specific diseases,” said Katrine Bosley, chief executive
officer of Editas Medicine. Gersbach is also serving as a scientific advisor
to Editas.

Editas is a leading genome editing company and part of a transformational new
area of healthcare—genomic medicine. The company was founded by the pioneers
and world leaders in genome editing bringing specific expertise in CRISPR/Cas9
and TALENs technologies. The company’s mission is to translate its proprietary
technology into novel solutions to treat a broad range of genetically-driven
diseases.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

