

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Launches Master’s Program in Cybersecurity

July 2, 2020

Starting in Fall 2021, the new degree will train the ‘cyber-savvy’ engineers
needed to protect humanity’s digital infrastructure

From the smartwatch on your wrist to the traffic light-controlled intersection
at the next corner, to the power stations that light your city, to farm
machinery in agricultural fields, computing technology is embedded everywhere.

This technology has created efficiencies, lowered costs, and expanded access
to communication and information—but not without risks. Among the most
troubling are hackers, spies and other bad actors who could breach those
systems and potentially cause havoc on a wide scale. In fact, the National
Academy of Engineering named “Securing Cyberspace” as one its 14 Grand
Challenges for Engineering in the 21st Century.

To help meet the need for specialized engineers who can design and defend
secure systems, Duke is launching a new Cybersecurity Master of Engineering
degree program.

The 30-credit degree, available beginning in fall 2021 on Duke’s campus or
online, will educate students with engineering or computer science backgrounds
in the technical, ethical and business dimensions of cybersecurity.

> The 30-credit degree, available on-campus or online, educates students with
> engineering or computer science backgrounds in the technical, ethical and
> business dimensions of cybersecurity

“This new degree is a strategic response to growing demand from businesses,
educational institutions and governments for cyber-savvy engineering
professionals,” said program director Jimmie Lenz. “By combining a highly
interdisciplinary structure and technical instruction with business skills
development, this Duke Engineering degree is designed to develop professionals
with the skillset that organizations need to protect their vital networks and
systems.”

The cybersecurity master’s program joins other new Duke graduate degree and
certificate programs focused on leading-edge marketplace engineering
disciplines, such as financial technology (FinTech) and artificial
intelligence for product innovation.

The master’s program in cybersecurity, Lenz said, is available to all
qualified students, including mid-career professionals with undergraduate
degrees in engineering, computer science or similar fields of study who are
interested in acquiring cybersecurity knowledge and skills.

> Online and on-campus students learn together, with all courses offered
> either live or on-demand. All students take the same classes, learn from the
> same faculty and earn the same Duke master’s degree.

Online and on-campus students will learn together, with all courses offered
either live or on-demand. All students take the same classes, learn from the
same faculty and earn the same Duke master’s degree. On-campus students can
complete the degree in a few as three semesters, while online study can be
pursued by working professionals over the course of five semesters.

Online students also enrich their Duke experience by attending three weeklong
on-campus residencies during their studies, where they meet faculty and peers
face-to-face and attend workshops and seminars.

Core technical courses examine risk modeling and management, law, policy,
ethics and privacy considerations, and Cybersecurity Perspectives. Students
may specialize in one of two elective tracks—technology or technology
management. Elective courses include work in security incident detection and
response, identity and access management, software development, applying
machine learning to advance cybersecurity, and the management of cybersecurity
operations.

> "By combining an interdisciplinary structure and technical instruction with
> business skills development, this degree develops professionals with the
> skillset that organizations need to protect their vital networks and
> systems."
>
> **Jimmie Lenz**  
>  Director, Duke Cybersecurity Master of Engineering Degree Program

In addition to courses in cybersecurity, master’s students will participate in
regular workshops and seminars featuring expert presenters from industry.

Degree requirements round out with a required internship or research project.

All students will have access to Duke Engineering's dedicated master's career
services and professional development team. In recent years, nearly 9 out of
10 Duke engineering master’s graduates had jobs or went on to further
education within six months of graduation.

“I’m impressed by the thoughtful considerations given to the development of
Duke’s Cybersecurity Master of Engineering,” said Bob Flores, CEO of business
technology strategy firm Applicology Incorporated and a former chief technical
officer for the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency. “The Pratt School of
Engineering enjoys a well-deserved reputation for pioneering new approaches
and methodologies, and is continuing that tradition with this program.”

Learn more at:

cybersecurity.meng.duke.edu

## Related News

May 29, 2020

### Duke Launches Graduate Certificate in AI for Product Innovation

March 01, 2020

### Forward with FinTech: Duke’s Newest Engineering Master’s Program

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

