

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Engineering Celebrates Class of 2019

May 12, 2019

Duke Engineering recognized more than 700 undergraduate and graduate
engineering students during the 2019 commencement weekend

Duke Engineering recognized more than 700 undergraduate and graduate
engineering students during the 2019 commencement ceremonies and celebrations
held May 10-12.

## More to Explore

  * Video
  * Photos
  * PhD Awards
  * Master's Awards
  * Undergraduate Awards

On Sunday, Dean Ravi V. Bellamkonda and senior class president Jack Myhre
spoke to 284 May 2019 engineering undergraduates, their loved ones and faculty
gathered for the Bachelor of Science in Engineering (BSE) Diploma Ceremony in
Cameron Indoor Stadium.

"You are Duke Engineers—you are born to invent, innovate and create a better
world for us all," Bellamkonda said.

While families and friends watched from the stands, 2019 graduates gathered on
historic Coach K Court to be recognized—including those receiving school and
departmental awards, graduating with departmental distinction, and as Pratt
Research Fellows and NAE Grand Challenge Scholars.

> "You are Duke Engineers—you are born to invent, innovate and create a better
> world for us all."
>
> **Dean Ravi V. Bellamkonda** , in **** remarks to the Class of 2019

There are 299 undergraduates in the Duke Engineering Class of 2019, including
students who earned their degrees last September and December. Meanwhile,
graduating doctoral and master's students were recognized at ceremonies at
Duke on Friday and Saturday.

For the 2018-2019 academic year, Pratt School of Engineering graduate students
were awarded:

  * 73 PhDs
  * 188 Master of Science (MS) degrees
  * 159 Master of Engineering Management (MEM) degrees, in both on-campus and
    distance programs
  * 51 Master of Engineering (MEng) degrees

Altogether, the Duke Engineering Class of 2019 includes 770 graduates.

* * *

## Photos

* * *

## PhD Awards

### Department of Biomedical Engineering

#### Doctoral Dissertation Award

  * Christopher T. Lam
  * Stefan Daniel Roberts
  * Nicholas Chen Tang

### Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

#### Doctoral Scholar Award

  * Yingjie Liu
  * Lauren Lowman

### Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

#### Outstanding Dissertation Award

  * Mohamed Saber Rizk Ibrahim  

  * James Thostenson

#### Outstanding Service to the Department Award

  * Tamara Silbergleit Lehman

### Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

#### Doctoral Dissertation Award

  * Reza Khoday-Mehr
  * Wiley Dunlap-Shohl

### Leadership Awards

#### Outstanding Service to the Engineering Graduate Student Council

  * Clinton Cahall
  * Korine Duval Ohiri
  * Weston Ross

#### Outstanding Service to PhD Plus

  * Mandana Taghizadeh Manzari

* * *

## Master's Awards

### Department of Biomedical Engineering

#### Excellence in Master of Science Studies

  * Zhao (Kevin) Ma
  * Xiao Peng

#### Excellence in Master of Engineering Studies

  * Erin Emmons
  * Enoch Chang

### Department of Civil & Environmental Engineering

#### Outstanding Master of Engineering Student Award

  * Karyn Saunders

#### Outstanding Master of Science Student Award

  * Lauren Frei

### Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

#### Outstanding Master's Student Award

  * Arda Icmez
  * Yiwei Li

### Department of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science

#### Best Poster Award for Master's Research

  * Jingjing Song

* * *

## Undergraduate Awards

### Pratt School Awards

#### Walter J. Seeley Scholastic Award

  * Daniel Kai Sheng Boey
  * Madeline Fitch Briere
  * Courtney AnnaLee Adams Montgomery
  * Neel Krishna Prabhu

_Presented annually by the Engineering Student Government to the member of the
graduating class who has achieved the highest scholastic average in all
subjects, and who has shown diligence in pursuit of an engineering education.
Initiated to honor the spirit of academic excellence and professional
diligence demonstrated by the late Dean Walter J. Seeley._

#### Otto Meier, Jr. Tau Beta Pi Award

  * Nathan William Watson

_Presented in recognition of Dr. Meier’s leadership in establishing the North
Carolina Gamma Chapter on January 10, 1948, and his continuous service until
April 19, 1975, as the chapter advisor. Given annually to the graduating
member of Tau Beta Pi who best symbolizes the distinguished scholarship and
exemplary character required for membership._

#### Pratt School of Engineering Student Service Award

  * Benjamin Quimby Jackson
  * Tracy Lu

_Established in 1978 and given to graduating seniors who, by contributions of
time, effort and spirit, have significantly benefitted the community of the
Pratt School of Engineering._

### Biomedical Engineering

#### da Vinci Award

  * Neel Krishna Prabhu

_Presented to the Biomedical Engineering senior with the most outstanding
academic record, as determined by a faculty committee. Commemorates the
contributions of Leonardo da Vinci in laying the foundation of the mechanistic
study of human life._

#### Helmholtz Award

  * Neel Krishna Prabhu

_Given to graduating seniors who present the best research projects, as judged
by department faculty. Commemorates the work of Hermann von Helmholtz in
laying the foundation of biomedical engineering._

#### Edward D. "Ned" Light Memorial Award

  * Stephen Zhifan Xu

_Given to a Pratt Research Fellow in biomedical engineering with the best
engineering design project, as judged by a faculty committee. Established in
2012 in memory of Ned Light, who worked for at Duke 22 years —pioneering
research in real-time 3D ultrasound imaging and mentoring a host of
undergraduate students both in the lab and in life skills._

#### Theo C. Pilkington Memorial Award

  * Olivia Rose Gwynn

_Established in 1993 by the Whitaker Foundation as an endowment award in
memory of Dr. Pilkington, founding chairman of the Department of Biomedical
Engineering. The recipient is selected at the end of the junior year and the
award is given in recognition of outstanding perseverance and accomplishment
in the study of biomedical engineering._

### Civil and Environmental Engineering

#### American Society of Civil Engineering Outstanding Senior Prize

  * Courtney AnnaLee Adams Montgomery

_Presented annually to a graduating civil engineering senior in recognition of
an exceptional, positive impact on the Duke student chapter of the American
Society of Civil Engineering._

#### William Brewster Snow Environmental Engineering Award

  * Charles Benjamin Pearlman

_Established in 1979 and presented annually to seniors who have demonstrated
academic excellence, interest, and enthusiasm in the study of environmental
engineering._

#### Aubrey E. Palmer Award

  * Daniel Kai Sheng Boey
  * Courtney AnnaLee Adams Montgomery
  * Marina Carolyn Smalling

_Established in 1980 and presented annually to a civil engineering or
environmental engineering senior in recognition of outstanding academic
achievement. Selection is made by the faculty of the Department of Civil and
Environmental Engineering._

#### Eric I. Pas Award

  * Elizabeth Rose Griffin
  * Emma Joy Jin Palmer

_Established in 1998 in memory of Dr. Pas, former director of undergraduate
studies in Civil and Environmental Engineering, and presented to the
graduating civil or environmental engineering senior judged by the faculty to
have conducted the most outstanding independent study project._

### Electrical and Computer Engineering

#### David Randall Fuller Prize for Achievement in Electrical and Computer
Engineering

  * Michael Todd Scruggs

_Presented annually to the graduating senior who has shown the most
improvement in academic performance over the first three years._

#### George Sherrerd III Memorial Award in Electrical and Computer Engineering

  * Nathaniel Emerson Brooke

_Awarded annually to the senior in electrical and computer engineering who, in
the opinion of the Electrical & Computer Engineering Faculty, who has attained
the highest level of scholastic achievement in all subjects and has
simultaneously has rendered significant service to the Pratt School of
Engineering and the university at large. Established in 1958 by the parents of
Class of 1955 graduate George Sherrerd III, to recognize outstanding
undergraduate scholarship._

#### Charles Ernest Seager Memorial Award

  * Madeline Fitch Briere
  * Madhavi Rajiv

_Recognizes the most outstanding undergraduate research project and
presentation, as judged by the faculty in Electrical & Computer Engineering as
part of the Graduation with Distinction presentation session. Established in
1958 by the widow and friends of Charles Ernest Seager, a graduate of the
Class of 1955._

#### Charles Rowe Vail Memorial Outstanding Undergraduate Teaching Award

  * Chance Robert Taylor Fleeting

_Established in 1997 by former students and colleagues of Charles Vail, a
graduate of the class of 1937, a professor from 1939-1967, and chair of the
Department of Electrical Engineering from 1956-1964, recognizes the most
outstanding undergraduate teaching assistant in the Department of Electrical &
Computer Engineering._

### Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

#### Pi Tau Sigma Scholarship Award

  * William Allen Willis III

_Established in memory of T.C. Heyward, Sr., and presented annually by Pi Tau
Sigma to an outstanding senior in Mechanical Engineering at Duke. Selection by
a committee of the engineering faculty is based on academic excellence,
engineering ability, and leadership._

#### Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science Faculty Award

  * Shomik Verma

_Presented annually in recognition of academic excellence to the graduating
Mechanical Engineering seniors who have attained the highest level of
scholastic achievement, as determined by the faculty._

###

* * *

## Graduating with Departmental Distinction

### Biomedical Engineering

  * Rebecca Michelle Cohen
  * Chance Robert Taylor Fleeting
  * Andrew Kelleher*
  * John Everett Knudsen
  * Kendall Ward Liang
  * Marisha Sai Madhira*
  * Olivia GeorgiAnna Nillissen
  * Neel Krishna Prabhu
  * Elizabeth Louise Snyder-Mounts*
  * Ashish Vankara*
  * Thomas Andrew Vincent
  * Stephen Zhifan Xu
  * Yilin Yang*
  * Ryan Joseph Zerega

* The _Howard G. Clark Award_

### Civil and Environmental Engineering

  * Monika Dharia
  * Remy Minkler Freire
  * Elizabeth Rose Griffin
  * Emma Joy Jin Palmer
  * Hailey Brooke Prevett
  * Marina Carolyn Smalling

### Electrical and Computer Engineering

  * Madeline Fitch Briere
  * Nathaniel Emerson Brooke
  * Gerry D Chen
  * Madhavi Rajiv
  * Aditya Sridhar
  * Benjamin Richard Welton

### Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

  * Emilia Natalia Chojkiewicz
  * W. Reed Cone Le Beaumont
  * Bataung Moses Mohapi
  * Joshua Michael Nugent
  * Anthony Paul
  * Savini Leisha Prematilleke
  * Erin Marie Simons
  * Shomik Verma
  * William Allen Willis III

* * *

## Undergraduate Fellowships

### Pratt Research Fellows

  * Faris Maher Albarghouthi
  * Manav Avlani
  * Ioanna Bourla
  * Amy Branda Cheng
  * Emilia Natalia Chojkiewicz
  * Griffin Banks Fairchok
  * Tala Fakhoury
  * Nicolas Robert Garda
  * Chance Robert Taylor Fleeting
  * Neil Anand Gupta
  * Edward Hsieh
  * John Everett Knudsen
  * Kendall Ward Liang
  * Marisha Sai Madhira
  * Oren Simon Mizrahi
  * Bataung Moses Mohapi
  * Olivia GeorgiAnna Nillissen
  * Joshua Michael Nugent
  * Emma Joy Jin Palmer
  * Neel Krishna Prabhu
  * Madhavi Rajiv
  * Elizabeth Louise Snyder-Mounts
  * Shomik Verma
  * Thomas Andrew Vincent
  * Nathan William Watson
  * William Allen Willis III
  * Michelle Elise Wolf
  * Stephen Zhifan Xu
  * Mary (Manyue) Zhang

### Katsouleas NAE Grand Challenge Scholars

  * Emilia Natalia Chojkiewicz
  * Monika Dharia
  * Yuansong Feng
  * Vishnu Teja Gottiparthy
  * Elizabeth Rose Griffin
  * Era Kurtaliaj
  * Tracy Lu
  * Marisha Sai Madhira
  * Emma Joy Jin Palmer
  * Shomik Verma
  * Cassandra Vishnevsky Williams
  * Tyler Jin-Kiu Yam

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

