

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# From Durham to Silicon Valley: Duke Technology Scholars Program Helps Women
Thrive in Tech

June 16, 2017

Aiming to close the gender gap in computer science and engineering, Duke
Technology Scholars Program sends 34 women to internships in high-tech hub

For Nigel Malaba, being selected for the 2017 class of Duke Technology
Scholars is another big step on a remarkable journey from Zimbabwe to Duke
University and on to Silicon Valley.

For leaders in Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering and Trinity College of Arts
& Sciences, Malaba and her 33 fellow 2017 “DTech” scholars represent a next
and accelerating step to increase the number of tech-savvy women working in
computer science and engineering fields.

Launched in an era that’s seen a precipitous national decline in women
majoring in computing disciplines -- just one in four individuals working in
the profession is female -- Duke’s new program matches promising students
early in their academic careers with a suite of opportunities to grow their
interest in coding and technology. The program pairs scholars with
knowledgeable mentors, provides career planning and support, builds community
through shared activities and co-housing, and connects participants with
summer internships at leading technology firms.

“Being a part of this program is a way for me to grow as a professional and to
learn from the best mentors in the technology industry,” said Malaba, who was
born in Zimbabwe and is a rising senior in electrical and computer engineering
at Duke. As a DTech Scholar, she’s interning with Aeris, a pioneer in the
Internet of Things -- the network of computing devices embedded in everyday
objects, from the factory floor to automobile dashboards to kitchen
appliances.

> “Being a part of this program is a way for me to grow as a professional and
> to learn from the best mentors in the technology industry. By the end of the
> program, I expect to be confident in my software engineering skills and to
> know that I can be a software engineer because I've done it before.”
>
> Nigel Malaba, 2017 DTech Scholar, ECE major

“By the end of the program, I expect to be confident in my software
engineering skills and to know that I can be a software engineer because I’ve
done it in the workplace,” Malaba added.

DTech was formed in 2016 as a partnership between Duke’s Departments of
Computer Science and Electrical & Computer Engineering to attract and retain
women in computing studies and create a pipeline of women into industry. It’s
open to Duke students who have successfully completed Computer Science 201:
Data Structures and Algorithms or a higher-level programming course, and the
program places as many qualified applicants in internships as possible.

The inaugural class of 10 scholars completed internships with companies such
as Apple, Intuit and Carbon3D, along with receiving mentorship and
professional development training. A post-pilot survey found that 100 percent
of participants planned to continue in tech careers, said program director
Monica Jenkins. In fact, she noted, “Every one of them has returned to Silicon
Valley for internships this year, and two have already accepted full-time
positions.”

The pilot’s success turbo-charged interest in the program among applicants and
companies alike. This year, 34 scholars (selected from 80 applicants) received
more than 75 placement offers from a growing roster of participating
companies—up from seven last year to 22 in 2017. Among them is Fanatics, a
leader in licensed college and professional sports merchandise with West Coast
headquarters in San Mateo, Calif. Fanatics provided internships to two
scholars in 2016. This summer, the company has seven DTech interns.

“Duke computer science and computer engineering are among the best in the
country, and the DTech scholars are the best of the best,” said Matt Madrigal,
chief technology and product officer for Fanatics. “We bring our interns into
our work right away. We’ve paired each intern with a senior engineer or
technical manager from our teams, and together they have 12 weeks to create a
real deliverable to solve one of the complex and very cool problems we are
working on.”

Several interns are working on projects related to Fanatics’s new e-commerce
platform, including developing a new predictive product recommendation
feature. In addition to coding, there are career-development discussions on
topics ranging from working in a corporate environment to what to expect on
job interviews, Madrigal said.

Catherine Wood, a senior majoring in mechanical engineering and minoring in
electrical and computer engineering, interned last summer at Carbon3D, a maker
of rapid 3D prototyping machines, and is returning there this year. She said
the mentorship component of the program has been particularly powerful.

“I was introduced to my incredible mentor through the DTech program, and
throughout the year we have become very close,” Wood said. “She has been a
great resource with pretty much everything from friends to school to work.
Having someone else to talk to from a different perspective, with a different
background has been wonderful.”

In addition to Madrigal at Fanatics, DTech program mentors -- most of whom are
Duke alumni -- have included a deputy director of the National Geospatial-
Intelligence Agency and the managing counsel at drug maker Merck & Co.

> “My internship at Apple was an incredible learning experience. I learned new
> languages, new frameworks, how code is written and reviewed when you are
> part of a team, and how to present my projects.”
>
> Lisa Sapozhnikov, 2016-2017 DTech Scholar, ECE and Computer Science double-
> major

A key challenge DTech seeks to overcome is in sustaining interest and
enthusiasm for tech throughout four years of college. At Duke, women make up
50 percent of the students in the basic Computer Science 101 course, but in
the later academic years they comprise just 20 percent of computer science
majors and 18 percent of electrical and computer engineering majors.

“This showed us that intervention early in the academic career is critical,”
said Valerie Ashby, dean of the Trinity College of Arts and Sciences. “By
providing these mentorships and internship opportunities for women as early as
sophomore year, the DTech Scholars program provides a model for intervention
that increases the probability that these women will thrive in an industry
that is at the backbone of our society and economy.”

Another returning scholar is Lisa Sapozhnikov, a computer science-electrical
engineering and computer science double major. She interned at Apple last year
and will spend this summer working at YouTube.

“Apple was an incredible learning experience: I learned new languages, new
frameworks, and how code is written and reviewed when you are part of a team,”
she said. “I'm expecting that at YouTube I'll be able to jump into my project
faster, using my experiences from last summer.”

Increasing the number of women in science and engineering is part of a broader
priority on diversity and inclusion for the Pratt School and for Duke, said
Ravi V. Bellamkonda, the Vinik Dean of Engineering at Duke.

“We know that the more diverse a team is, the more likely it is to find a
solution to the challenging problem they are working on,” he said.
“Engineering and computer science need to work to attract more women not only
because it is the right thing to do, but to generate better technologies. We
need as diverse a group as possible working on the biggest challenges facing
our world.”

_Learn more about the Duke Technology Scholars Program at_ _dtech.duke.edu_
_._

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

