

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# ECE Student Shares Insights from a Semester at Los Alamos National
Laboratory

May 31, 2017

The experience was made possible by Duke's Graduate Student Training
Enhancement Grants

_This article first appeared on theDuke Interdisciplinary Studies website._

Zhiqin Huang, a doctoral student in electrical and computer engineering at the
Pratt School of Engineering, received a grant to spend time at the Center for
Integrated Nanotechnologies at Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico.
By leveraging the lab’s cutting-edge facilities and other resources, she aimed
to gain skills and knowledge to inform her dissertation on novel
nanostructures to develop extremely low-energy and ultrafast plasmonic
switches.

Huang was among 19 graduate students from five schools at Duke to receive
Graduate Student Training Enhancement Grants (CSTEG) in 2016 for training
beyond their core disciplines. Her faculty mentor was David R. Smith, James B.
Duke Professor and chair of the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering.

She shared this update:

_Thanks to the GSTEG, I had a chance to visit Los Alamos National Lab (LANL)
for a half-year. Located in New Mexico, it is probably the most famous federal
government laboratory and well known for decades due to the development of the
first atomic bomb and research in multiple disciplines._

_During this visit, I obtained a comprehensive training including hands-on
laser training, electricity safety training, cryogen safety, radiological
training, chemical safety, hazardous waste and environment management as well
as lab management trainings._

_Since I needed to go to Sandia National Lab (SNL) to do experiments, I got
various related training there on different high-tech fabrication tools such
as JEOL EBL (E-beam lithography) and ALD (Atomic layer deposition). I also
learned how to make graphene, which is a very interesting 2D material. All
these trainings were very helpful to my research in LANL and at Duke._

_The main purpose of the visit was to learn optics-related experiment
techniques. I had a chance to work with scientists in the laboratory for
ultrafast materials and optical sciences (LUMOS). In particular, I got
involved in the optical ultrafast pump-probe experiments to investigate new
materials such as Weyl’s metals and Dirac materials. I also learned the
terahertz (THz) pump and optical probe system._

_Based on the rich resources in the national lab, I even built a new pump-
probe system independently and did a group of experiments using newly
fabricated samples and obtained primary results._

_In addition, I attended the training for a newly developed optical system
known as scattering-type scanning near-field optical microscopy (s-SNOM),
which includes AFM, nano-FTIR, nano-imaging and ultrafast pump-probe with the
spatial resolution of 10nm and temporal resolution of 10fs. This incredible
experience will be essential when we build our own system at Duke in the near
future._

_Furthermore, I attended several LANL internal forums related to nanooptics as
well as invaluable seminars given by researchers in the lab and invited
scholars. Through discussions with some talented experts in the field of my
research, I gained a much better understanding on both theory and
experiments._

This internal funding mechanism from the Office of the Vice Provost for
Interdisciplinary Studies encourages graduate students to step away from their
core research and training to acquire additional skills, knowledge or co-
curricular experiences that will give them new perspectives on their research
agendas. Graduate Student Training Enhancement Grants are intended to deepen
preparation for academic positions and other career trajectories.

Learn more about Duke's Graduate Student Training Enhancement Grant program

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

