

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# ECE Doctoral Graduate Ran Wang Wins International Award

December 6, 2016

Duke becomes first university to win competitive IEEE honor for a second time

Ran Wang, a 2016 graduate of Duke University’s Electrical and Computer
Engineering (ECE) PhD program, has won the 2016 IEEE Test Technology Technical
Council's E. J. McCluskey Doctoral Thesis Award—an award given annually after
an international competition for the best PhD thesis in the field. Wang’s
doctoral thesis, titled “Testing of Interposer-Based 2.5D Integrated
Circuits,” outlines methods for testing and verifying the functionality of an
emerging microchip architecture.

As modern microprocessors continue to increase in density while shrinking in
size, they are beginning to approach hard physical limits. As technology
companies struggle to fit more transistors in a flat, confined area, many are
beginning to go vertical.

Stacking microprocessors on top of one another to create 3D architectures
promises to provide a leap forward in the number of connections and logic
operations available to a processor. As is true for many technological leaps,
however, it is easier said than done.

As an intermediate step, many researchers are exploring so-called “2.5D”
architectures, where computer scientists network microprocessors together
through a base layer of connectivity called an interposer. Wang’s thesis
presents methods to test and locate defects in these new, complicated computer
architectures.

Researchers have validated Wang’s results outside of simulations on silicon
chips at AMD and NVIDIA, and commercial companies have used his methods in the
design-for-test architectures for 2.5D microchips. His work has also led to
successful defect screening for an interposer manufactured by GLOBALFOUNDRIES.

“In terms of the significance and timeliness of his work, the quality and
volume of his publications, the relevance to industry and demonstrations of
transition to industry practice, and the impact of his work on the community
at large, Ran has few peers,” said Krishnendu Chakrabarty, the William H.
Younger Distinguished Professor of Engineering at Duke and Wang’s advisor. “I
am thrilled that the award committee decided to reward him for his excellent
PhD thesis.”

The McCluskey Doctoral Thesis Award involves two stages. The first sees
doctoral students compete at three separate international symposiums. The
winners from these events then compete at the International Test Conference,
held this year November 15-17 in Fort Worth, Texas. The award’s intent is to
promote impactful doctoral student work, provide students with exposure to the
community and prospective employers, and support interaction between academia
and industry in the field of test technology.

Wang is the second Duke ECE doctoral student to win the award recently, as
Mahmut Yilmaz received the award in 2009, marking the first time one
university has had two winners of the award. Duke was close to a third winner
in 2008 as well, as ECE student Sudarshan Bahukudumbi was a runner-up that
year.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

