

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Educating Engineers to Meet Grand Challenges

March 23, 2015

Duke Engineering is co-leading a national initiative that promises to
transform engineering education—and change the world.

In a letter of commitment presented to President Barack Obama today, Duke and
more than 120 other U.S. engineering schools announced plans to educate a new
generation of engineers expressly equipped to tackle some of the most pressing
issues facing society in the 21st century.

These "Grand Challenges," identified through initiatives such as the White
House Strategy for American Innovation, the National Academy of Engineering
(NAE) Grand Challenges for Engineering, and the United Nations Millennium
Development Goals, include complex yet critical goals such as engineering
better medicines, making solar energy cost-competitive with coal, securing
cyberspace, and advancing personalized learning tools to deliver better
education to more individuals.

Each of the 122 signing schools has pledged to graduate a minimum of 20
students per year who have been specially prepared to lead the way in solving
such large-scale problems, with the goal of training more than 20,000 formally
recognized “Grand Challenge Engineers” over the next decade.

More than a quarter of the nation’s engineering schools are now committed to
establishing programs to educate engineers to take on the Grand Challenges.
“We’re poised to transform the landscape of engineering higher education,”
said Tom Katsouleas, dean of Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering and a co-
leader of the initiative along with Yannis Yortsos, dean of the University of
Southern California’s Viterbi School of Engineering, and Richard Miller,
president of the Franklin W. Olin College of Engineering. “The tremendous
response suggests we’ve tapped into something powerful—the very human element
connecting engineering with students who want to make a real difference. I
think we’re going to see these Grand Challenge Engineers do just that.”

Grand Challenge Engineers will be trained through special programs at each
institution that integrate five educational elements: (1) a hands-on research
or design project connected to the Grand Challenges; (2) real-world,
interdisciplinary experiential learning with clients and mentors; (3)
entrepreneurship and innovation experience; (4) global and cross-cultural
perspectives; and (5) service-learning.

“Teaching engineering fundamentals in the classroom is important, but it’s not
enough,” said Richard Miller of Olin College. “Solving our planet’s Grand
Challenges requires engineering expertise, but they won’t be solved by
engineers alone. Doubling down on even more hard sciences and math will not
help. Instead, we need to incorporate new elements into engineering students’
education to give them both the skillset and the mindset needed to become
leaders in addressing societal challenges.”

The training model was inspired by the National Academy of Engineering-
endorsed Grand Challenges Scholars Program (GCSP), established in 2009 by
Duke, Olin College and the University of Southern California’s Viterbi School
of Engineering in response to the NAE’s 14 Grand Challenges for Engineering in
the 21st century. There are currently 20 active GCSPs and more than 160 NAE-
designated Grand Challenge Scholars have graduated to date. Half of the
graduates are women—compared with just 19 percent of U.S. undergraduate
engineering students—demonstrating the program’s appeal to groups typically
underrepresented in engineering.

“The Grand Challenges aren't just a call to those already in the field of
engineering—they’re a call to anyone passionate about engineering innovation
and the grand impacts it can have on our lives,” said Kevin Mauro, a Duke GCSP
student focused on the “reverse-engineer the brain” challenge, who recently
participated in the White House’s first conference on the BRAIN Initiative.
“It’s all about the pursuit of something that will last beyond our lifetimes.”

More than 30 students are currently enrolled in Duke’s GCSP, one of the
country’s pioneering programs. The school’s Scholars are pursuing a wide range
of projects related to Grand Challenges, such as treating contaminated
drinking water in Uganda, preventing injuries through orthopaedic
biomechanics, improving the performance of unmanned aerial systems in remote
and harsh climates, and engineering better medicines to improve the health
care of women in low-resource settings.

“The NAE’s Grand Challenges for Engineering are already inspiring more and
more of our brightest young people to pursue careers that will have direct
impacts on improving the quality of life for people across the globe,” said
NAE President C.D. Mote Jr. “Imagine the impact of tens of thousands of
additional creative minds focused on tackling society’s most vexing
challenges. ‘Changing the world’ is not hyperbole in this case. With the right
encouragement, they will do it and inspire others as well.”

More information on this initiative, including a copy of the letter of
commitment, is available at the NAE announcement, along with an interactive
map of the participating schools. The initiative grew out of a 2014 workshop
organized by the American Association of Engineering Societies, Epicenter,
Engineers Without Borders USA, EPICS, and the NAE Grand Challenge Scholars
Program.

More information on the Duke NAE Grand Challenge Scholars Program is available
at the program's website.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

