

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# EGR 190: Mission Impossible?

December 7, 2018

Second-year mechanical engineering students learn to overcome intractable
challenges

Greg Twiss’s students have tested liquid-fueled rocket motors, designed
colorful jets of water to dance through fountains, and sent high-altitude
balloons soaring 20 miles into the atmosphere to meet the central design
challenge he creates for EGR 190 Applied Engineering Design, a mechanical
engineering class that continues to build upon the design and ideation skills
developed in EGR 121, Engineering Innovation. Thanks to word of mouth, the
second-year Duke Engineering students who enroll in his class know to expect
the unexpected. But when he unveiled this year’s challenge—building a
submersible robot capable of detecting and lifting underwater treasure—some of
those students still were taken by surprise.

“I thought it was impossible,” said Megan Gendregske ME ’20, recalling the
moment the challenge was revealed. She said the difficulty of the task was
compounded by the ambiguity of the location where the final test would occur;
depending upon what pool was available during finals week, the robots might
have to travel long distances through shallow water to reach their targets, or
withstand higher pressure at the bottom of a deeper pool. As such, all of the
four teams had to keep their solutions adjustable.

Gendregske’s group iterated for eight weeks, up to the very last minute their
robot was in the water. During its final test at Duke’s Brodie Aquatic Center,
the robot’s HD camera stopped functioning, and the team had to compensate for
the sensory loss with increased communication. The bot then got stuck in the
pool drain and had to be floated out and moved. Finally, the bot refused to
descend at all. After some cajoling from the group, the bot did identify and
retrieve all three sunken treasures—plastic, steel, and aluminum—in the proper
sequence, within the allotted hour.

Gendregske’s emotional trajectory, from initial befuddlement to eventual
confidence, was precisely engineered by her instructor. “There’s a kind of
trick to getting the problem right, as far as scope,” said Twiss. “It can’t be
too obvious, because then they’re not learning. It can’t be too hard, because
then they’re just banging their heads against the walls. You find a nirvana,
where in week zero the students are scratching their heads, but by week 13
they’ve done it. There’s an amazing transition from ‘There’s no way we’re
going to do this,’ to ‘We’ve got this.’”

In traditional engineering classes, he noted, students are frequently expected
to discover the single correct answer to a problem, but EGR 190 students must
decide together how their team will work toward the desired outcome, almost
certainly overcoming multiple false steps along the way. These failures, Twiss
stressed, are the real teachable moments. “That’s where you learn,” he said.
“That’s where confidence comes from. It’s by trying, and having the water
flood into your vehicle, having it get stuck, getting frustrated, and
overcoming it.”

> This class showed me that even if you think an idea is perfect—it probably
> isn’t. So you might as well just start, and then you’ll be able to see where
> to adjust.
>
> Megan gendregske ME '20

Gendregske said her favorite part of the design process became breaking the
seemingly insurmountable problem down into smaller tasks, and that “just jump
in” became a mantra of sorts. “One of the things I struggle with is thinking
an idea has to be perfect before I start,” she said. “This class showed me
that even if you think an idea is perfect—it probably isn’t. So you might as
well just start, and then you’ll be able to see where to adjust.”

While Gendregske’s team showed up to the final test with a buoyant bot that
used propeller systems to change direction, Jolan von Plutzner ME’20 and
teammates brought a wheeled bot that drove along the bottom of the pool to
reach the targets. Von Plutzner initially saw the challenge as an opportunity
to hone her existing strengths; as a visual art minor and aspiring consumer
product designer, she took immediate ownership of the team’s CAD designs. But
over the course of the semester, she said her idea of individual ownership
fell to the wayside. “It was pretty poetic,” she said. “Our system broke when
the person in charge of coding wasn’t available, and the responsibility fell
to the rest of us. We all jumped in, and then our roles just melded.”
Achieving this synergy with her team, said von Plutzner, was her favorite
thing about the class.

Twiss, a professional engineer who has spent much of his career developing
products for Cisco and IDEO, knows that soft skills—like teambuilding—are an
important part of a working engineer’s toolkit. In addition to teaching the
technical engineering skills required for each challenge, he also encourages
groups to communicate and collaborate to solve problems and increase their
chances of success. When Gendregske’s group exhausted its $500 budget, for
example, they negotiated with another team to share a battery, with the
provision that the lending team went first in the trials.

“This class reformats what education is. It makes you an active participant
rather than a passive recipient,” said Twiss. “We give you a lot of autonomy
and $500, and the directive to fix your own problems if they arise.”

If Twiss’s words come across as unconcerned, his students beg to differ.

“He’s wonderful, very enthusiastic about this class. He really enjoys watching
us grow, I think—to see the transition into becoming better engineers,” said
Gendregske. “And he’s always willing to help in whatever way he can.”

More News from MEMS

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

