

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# EGR121 Assignment: Deliver Lab to Doorsteps

April 29, 2020 | By Elizabeth Witherspoon

_Odyssey to deliver lab supplies around the world mirrors twisting path of
Rube Goldberg-style contraptions the class built_

Just because a hands-on undergraduate engineering class suddenly must go
online, does not mean it must go hands-free. Nor does it have to become any
less educational or fun when it comes to building a signature Rube Goldberg-
style group project.

When Duke University converted to online education after spring break,
mechanical engineering and materials science faculty Becky Simmons and Greg
Twiss sprang into action to reinvent lab assignments to keep students
designing and building with their own hands in their first-year Engineering
Innovations class.

> I think this assignment has proven that our students have the skills and
> confidence to innovate and collaborate anywhere.
>
> Greg Twiss

With the help of Senior Lab Administrator Patrick McGuire and Research
Development Engineer Eric Stach, and even Simmons’ two daughters, they ordered
the supplies, assembled and shipped 82 kits to students and graduate teaching
assistants across the U.S., plus one to Canada and another to India. The kits
contained electronic components, switches, proximity and light sensors, a
small motor and an electric multi-meter so the students could troubleshoot the
designs. Students creatively added items they found around their homes, such
as cardboard, toilet tissue tubes, even childhood toys and board game pieces,
plus their engineering ingenuity.

The signature assignment in pre-coronavirus times asked groups of four
students to build contraptions to pass a common object, such as a marble,
through a series of ups, downs and convoluted passageways. They used gravity,
pulleys, levers, catapults, doors and more, all triggered by the object
setting off a series of electronic sensors, switches and small motors.
Students earned extra points for complexity and creativity, not to mention
bragging rights, as each team endeavored to outdo the next on presentation
day.

The story of how they made this possible sounds itself like the twisting
odyssey a ball might make through one of their Rube Goldberg-type
contraptions.

Follow the odyssey by MEMS Professors Becky Simmons and Greg Twiss' class to
deliver lab supplies around the world as it mirrors the twisting path of Rube
Goldberg-style contraptions the class built.

_Step 1: Ship supplies to home of Becky Simmons, MEMS associate professor of
the practice, in Bahama, N.C._  
 _Step 2: Enlist help of her two daughters to pack 82 kits from dining room
assembly line._

_Step 3: Meet Simmons at Eno State Park. Transfer packed kits to MEMS Lab
Administrator Pat McGuire’s vehicle._  
 _Step 4: Haul to campus, unload vehicle, affix shipping labels, reload
vehicle._  
 _Step 5: Ship off to students around the world._

According to McGuire, all but one of the kits arrived at their intended
destination. The one sent to India made it to the country, but it was held up
for delivery after arrival.

“This was all their idea,” McGuire said, referring to Simmons and Twiss. “So,
I don’t want any credit for it. I just helped implement it.”

On presentation day, with the entire class watching via Zoom, the teams
virtually passed their common objects to one another. Narrating while panning
with webcams, students described the themes chosen by their groups, designs of
the routes, engineering concepts involved and the intensity of necessary
calculations. Each demonstrated her or his portion of the route built to move
the marble, golf ball or whatever common object all members of the group were
using. When one student’s object reached the end, the next student in the
group began on his or her section that, had they all been in the same room,
would have connected at the previous section’s endpoint.

Meanwhile, Simmons and Twiss praised the students and probed for details. They
requested reruns and camera close-ups. In one case, that meant having a
student reset a winding series of Dominoes and knock them down again.

It may have seemed like all fun and games moving marbles along a Thomas the
Tank Engine wooden railroad track or putting it in or taking out of a homemade
Monopoly game jail, but this was still serious engineering education after
all.

“This entire experience was as an exercise in ‘structured improvisation,’”
said Twiss. “Everything came together incredibly quickly, and the students
took on this challenge with amazing enthusiasm, creativity and
resourcefulness. We teach that ‘constraints’ have an important role in design,
so I especially liked seeing the wide range of found objects from student
homes that worked their way into the final designs. While we may have
preferred a more standard in-person format this semester, I think this
assignment has proven that our students have the skills and confidence to
innovate and collaborate anywhere.”

“It was a really awesome way to stay connected and feel creative during such
uncertain times," said Tanner Zachem (ME '23) of the Museum of DCs Group, who
combined the themes from all the project assignments in the semester. "It was
amazing to be a part of a class that attempted to make this semester as
educational and fun as possible.”

“The skills we learned in EGR121 helped us to adapt to the unprecedented
changes this semester and to continue to make the most of our experiences. The
EGR121 instructors made the transition as seamless as possible,” added fellow
group member Michael Wood (ME '23).

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

