

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Energy Deputy Secretary: Duke’s Innovative Energy Research is Essential to
Security, Safety

April 24, 2014

Innovative research like that being carried out at Duke is essential to the
future of energy security, sustainability and environmental safety, according
to U.S. Department of Energy deputy secretary.

Innovative research like that being carried out at Duke is essential to the
future of energy security, sustainability and environmental safety, the deputy
secretary of the U.S. Department of Energy told an audience at the Sanford
School of Public Policy after a daylong visit with Duke students, faculty and
research staff.

Daniel Poneman visited the campus on April 21, meeting in a roundtable with
energy students, hearing from researchers and faculty who won support in the
first round of grants made by the Energy Initiative’s energy research seed
fund, and taking a firsthand look at energy- and defense-related research in
labs at the Pratt School of Engineering.

"At the Department of Energy, we’re focused on the future. We’re focused on
the biggest problems we face as a nation – I humbly submit to you, the biggest
problems we face as a planet," Poneman told the Sanford audience. He
identified those problems as "issues related to nuclear security, issues
related to energy transformation, of the possibility of dramatic, even
catastrophic climate change. And the answers that we need to those challenges
come from you, from places like this."

View the complete public remarks and question-and-answer session:

Poneman came as a guest of the Energy Initiative and its director, Richard
Newell; the two became acquainted when Poneman helped persuade Newell to leave
Duke University to become head of the U.S. Energy Information Administration,
a post Newell held from 2009 until he returned to Duke in 2011.

The visit was also hosted by the Sanford School of Public Policy, the Duke
University Program in American Grand Strategy, and the Pratt School of
Engineering, where Dean Tom Katsouleas led a tour of three electrical and
computer engineering (ECE) labs where energy research is under way.

The tour began inthe laboratory of professor David Smith, where graduate
students talked about their work to use compressive millimeter wave technology
to design new airport security devices. This technology images so quickly that
passengers could be scanned as they walk through the hall on their way to
their terminals, rather than having to wait in line to walk through a metal
detector or stand in a glass booth for a scan. The scanner works by using
metamaterials to scan different frequencies of waves and compressive imaging
techniques to quickly build an image from the multiple sweeps.

In professor Jeff Glass’s laboratory, Poneman heard about three different
technologies being pursued through the use of an atomic layer deposition
system. This technology allows researchers to precisely place single layers of
atoms on an existing surface.

One project is seeking to engineer a better catalyst by placing an aluminum
oxide shell on a nickel surface to make better use of shale gasses. Another is
building a new type of solar cell with an embedded supercapacitor to store
solar energy for 24 hours or more. A third project is trying to increase the
efficiency of systems that use the energy of sunlight to break apart water
molecules and harvest hydrogen gas.

Poneman got a look at Duke’s gigapixel camera on the way to the laboratory of
professor David Brady. The technology uses numerous spherical lenses and
photoreceptors and instantly stitches all of the photos together to create a
single picture with gigapixel resolution. After that demonstration, graduate
students presented their work to engineer a new type of X-ray scanning device.
Instead of simply taking images of shadows created by the X-rays as they are
unable to pass through certain materials, the machine measures how the X-rays
bounce off of objects to determine what they are.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

