

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Engaging Tomorrow’s Water Scholars

April 8, 2019

CEE PhD student Kim Bourne educates high school students on water scarcity

Covering the complexities of water scarcity in a 45-minute presentation is a
tall order, but CEE PhD student Kim Bourne delivered. Last week, 200 students
at Terry Sanford High School in Fayetteville, NC heard her keynote address on
the topic at a symposium focusing on global water access issues.

The annual symposium is hosted by the Global Studies program at Terry Sanford,
and adopts a different theme each year. The event is meant to give students an
early experience of college-level topics and prepare them to participate in
discussion and debate around complex current events.

Bourne covered three drivers of water scarcity—quality, quantity and
economics—in her presentation, and cited some of the agricultural and chemical
factors that affect water quality in the Fayetteville region. Bourne also
discussed the roles that climate change and infrastructure play in global
water access.

“I was surprised at how willing the students were to ask questions after the
presentation,” said Bourne. “Like, ‘Why isn’t desalination economical?’ I
loved being able to interact with them, answer some of those questions, and
see that they were taking away real understanding of critical issues.”

After Bourne's presentation on water scarcity, the students heard from a non-
governmental organization focused on bringing wells to regions without water
infrastructure. Deborah Vajner, director of Terry Sanford’s global studies
program, said that the students were able to apply what they had learned about
water scarcity from Bourne’s presentation to think critically about the
solutions they saw as lasting and sustainable.

Bourne, whose PhD research in the lab of Mark Borsuk focuses on statistical
modeling to inform policy decisions, found that preparing for the keynote
taught her some lessons as well—specifically, it refreshed how she
communicates her science to a non-technical audience. “It was a really good
experience to go back to the basics and reflect on the bigger picture, and
what my own work contributes,” she said.

Learn About Engineering in Service to Society

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

