

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Engineering a New Curriculum in Uganda

July 15, 2015 | by Emilie Poplett

As the inaugural class of one of Sub-Saharan Africa’s first biomedical
engineering (BME) programs celebrated its graduation in Kampala, Uganda this
May, Duke professor William "Monty" Reichert cheered their success from
Durham.

_Originally posted on Duke Global_

Reichert had recently returned to Durham from Kampala, where he spent the
2014-2015 academic year as a Fulbright Scholar at Makerere University, helping
ensure the success of a fledgling program in a field still new to universities
across the African continent.

The field of biomedical engineering bridges engineering and biology to develop
medical technologies that detect and treat human diseases. Because many
physicians in Uganda have limited access to medical equipment to treat
patients, BME is viewed as a valuable addition to Uganda's healthcare system.

“When I saw biomedical engineering [on the course list] at Makerere, I had to
check five times to make sure it was real,” one student said.

Reichert conducted a curriculum review and taught six courses over his two
semesters at Makerere. Among the courses he taught was a senior design class,
in which students developed skills not only to maintain and repair existing
biomedical equipment, but also to design and build their own.

As part of the course, students worked in teams to develop new BME tools. For
inspiration, Reichert sent the students to nearby Mulago Hospital, where they
interviewed physicians about the challenges they face in administering patient
care.

“They found someone who had a need, and they made a gadget to meet that need,”
Reichert said. “From an engineering point of view, that’s pretty cool.”

Student projects included a neuropathy detection system based on a smartphone
and a web-based medical database designed to record information about folic
acid intake during pregnancy, an important factor in helping to prevent Spina
Bifida in babies.

Although the majority of BME students in Africa go on to become technicians,
many Makerere students are interested in exploring design as an avenue to
address challenges specific to their country’s health environment.

One student said her career goal is to develop specialized resources for
physicians and surgeons in Uganda’s hospitals. “I realized BME is not just
about taking apart equipment that has failed and putting it back together,”
she said. "When you're designing a machine, you have to remember that you're
saving someone's life."

“When you say you want to design,” another student added, “people say it has
all been done. My interest is to challenge that idea. I get to design my own
solutions that will work in my own country.”

This fall, Reichert will link his biomaterials course at Duke with a
concurrent class at Makerere, exposing Duke students in Durham to the context
of healthcare and biomedical equipment in Uganda. Through Skype, Reichert will
invite Duke students to partner with Makerere undergraduates to develop their
semester-long projects—“an experiment,” Reichert admitted, “but we’ll find a
way to do something meaningful together.”

Back in Kampala, Makerere’s newly-graduated BME students are excited and ready
to take on a developing field that their work will begin to define in Uganda.

“This is our future,” one student said, “and we are ready to stand out there
and say, ‘I am proud to be a biomedical engineer.’”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

