

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# An Engineering Student’s Summer of Misinformation

September 29, 2020

BME PhD student Khari Johnson explored how misinformation affects people's
receptivity to health initiatives

This story originally appeared on Duke's Interdisciplinary Studies site.

Khari Johnson came to Duke to translate his love of science into engineering
that can change the way medicine serves people. As a Ph.D. student in
Biomedical Engineering preparing to write his dissertation proposal, he
anticipated spending the summer of 2020 continuing his work on materials to be
used in medical contexts. When the pandemic intervened, Johnson tapped into
Duke’s pledge to provide summer employment opportunities for all Ph.D.
students who needed them.

He secured a virtual internship with RTI International to assess how
misinformation affects people’s receptivity to health initiatives. Guided by
Brian Southwell, director of RTI’s Science in the Public Sphere program (and
an adjunct faculty member at Duke), and Sarah Ray, communication scientist,
Johnson worked with researchers who were interested in finding relationships
between news coverage, social media patterns, online searches, and behavior
related to medicine and well-being.

With collaborators in RTI’s Women’s Global Health Imperative, Johnson helped
develop a survey of clinical researchers in various African countries
regarding their perceptions of how medical misinformation is spread.

Thanks to a relationship between RTI’s Science in the Public Sphere program
and the public television show _NOVA_ , Johnson also contributed to a project
to increase minority representation in STEM. “I got the privilege to work with
_NOVA Science Studio_ and assist with their efforts in hopefully starting a
webinar/workshop series,” he said. He explained that the goal is “to get high
schoolers from diverse backgrounds interested in science and STEM, building
science literacy early on so we can improve their representation.”

During the 12th Annual RTI Internship Showcase on August 7, attended by more
than 150 people, Johnson said he hopes this work will help improve access to
health improvements. “We can be doing a better job as far as expanding and
diversifying the voices that are being presented [to reach a range of
communities],” he said.

Looking back on the summer, Johnson highlighted the value of collaborative
research. “For me, the biggest takeaway was that you can always find [people
with] similar passions in the place you least expected it, and building on
those collaborations can be very fruitful.”

_**Read his essay for NOVA,Finding My Voice.**_

Click here to read the full article featured on the Interdisciplinary Studies
site.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

