

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Entrepreneurial Students Code Against COVID-19

June 3, 2020

Duke entrepreneurship resources helped a rising second-year student build a
contact tracing app and make a merger, in just a couple months

Can you name everyone with whom you have come into contact over the last 14
days? If you work from home these days and have your groceries delivered, it’s
probably a piece of cake. But what if you are a cashier at the grocery store,
or work in a hospital, or are a student living in a residential hall?

It was a question that was bothering Duke Engineering first-year student
Shehzan Maredia as early as February 2020, as he witnessed the rapid
proliferation of COVID-19 cases around the world. So Maredia did what comes
naturally to him: he started working on a solution.

He gathered a handful of classmates from Duke and the impromptu team began
coding an app to give people an idea of their exposure status based on where
they had carried their phones, and where they might have shared space with
individuals who later tested positive for COVID-19. Maredia said he spent
around 20 hours a day working to launch the app, but the team soon came up
against a set of roadblocks that stymied their breakneck pace of progress.
There were challenges to widespread adoption—Google and Apple had tamped down
on COVID-19 apps like Maredia’s, that were unaffiliated with a government
agency, educational institution or health nonprofit. And, being unaffiliated
with a larger organization meant that there were deficits in both budget and
institutional resources. “I realized here were a lot of things we would run
into as we tried to scale—notably, legal issues like writing terms of service
and protecting against liability,” he said.

Duke and entrepreneurship go hand in hand, though, and students like Maredia
can tap into a broad network of experts for help. He knew Duke Engineering’s
Executive in Residence, Steve McClelland, from his Founder’s Workshop he had
been part of, and reached out to him; McClelland and Duke Innovation &
Entrepreneurship colleague Howie Rhee helped Maredia access a wide range of
resources, including legal services.

“We got quite a bit of traction once we had our initial version out,” said
Maredia. The team won two international virtual hackathons—Datavant and
HackCovid, which helped the app gain exposure. Shortly afterward, Maredia was
offered what he described as an “insanely large amount of money” if he agreed
to sell the app to a private party—but he came away with the impression that
the prospective buyer didn’t share his team’s prioritization of user privacy.

That, also, bothered Maredia. ContainIt wasn’t his first business venture—in
high school he launched an educational tech company that offered students
personalized practice problem sets for high-level educational competitions,
which he later sold—but he said the motivation to build ContainIt was
different. “This is for social impact,” said Maredia, “Not for money.”

Around this time, Maredia saw a Facebook post about a contact tracing app
called NOVID that was developed and launched by Carnegie Mellon University
mathematician Po-Shen Loh. NOVID uses ultrasound to get more accurate
information about potential exposures—GPS and Bluetooth can mistakenly assume
an exposure event when users are near each other, even when they are separated
by walls. Ultrasound, on the other hand, “sees” the walls and accurately
labels the event a non-exposure.

Maredia emailed Loh to learn more. “Initially, learning about his project was
my only intention, but after talking to him, I learned about how we shared an
identical mission--building something good to help slow the spread of COVID,”
said Maredia. “It just made sense to join forces.”

Again, McClelland helped Maredia navigate tricky entrepreneurial waters—this
time, by guiding him through NOVID’s acquisition of ContainIt in late April.
The entire process, from writing the first line of code to finalizing the
merger with NOVID, happened in less than two months.

“We have had a few cases where students have really followed their passion
through this crisis and done a lot of work in very short window of time,” said
McClelland. “It is exciting, but also a little chaotic.”

Contact tracing has become an essential component of public health strategies
to stamp out COVID-19 but gathering information from those who have tested
positive for the disease about who else they may have exposed takes a lot of
time and significant human resources. Maredia is confident that the NOVID app
can help automate the process, while protecting users’ privacy. (The app
collects neither GPS nor personal information.)

After ContainIt merged with NOVID, Maredia’s role expanded to deployment and
growth, in addition to development. Much of his time these days is spent
building partnerships with organizations including governments, driving the
app’s social media campaigns and promoting its “campus ambassador” program.

Maredia said that working on a team that is driven by social impact has been
an amazing experience. “The team is super dedicated, and the most motivated
I’ve ever met,” he said, “and I just want to be part of the effort.”

More Entrepreneurship News

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

