

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Evolving Deep Brain Stimulation Patterns

January 4, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

New approach saves energy while moving toward personalized treatment for
Parkinson’s disease

Duke University biomedical engineers have used computers to “evolve” more
effective patterns of electric shocks delivered deep within the brain to treat
Parkinson’s disease symptoms.

The new energy-saving patterns could reduce the number of battery replacement
surgeries needed during a patient’s lifetime and lead to patterns tailored to
treat specific symptoms.

First introduced in 1987, deep brain stimulation sends electrical pulses deep
into the brains of people suffering from neurological motor control diseases
through wires implanted into an area of the brain called the basal ganglia.
Stimulation greatly improves motor function in many patients, though the
reasons why remain unclear.

While trying to understand the basic mechanisms involved, Duke engineers
discovered that timing patterns of deep brain stimulation became less
effective as they became more random. This implied that there might be non-
random patterns that work better than a constant barrage of pulses. Over the
past few years, the team has serendipitously discovered several such patterns.

Now, the Duke researchers have built an evolutionary computer algorithm to
more purposefully design effective patterns. In a new study with human
patients, the program developed a pattern that cuts stimulator energy usage by
up to 75 percent while losing none of the treatment’s benefits. With a greater
understanding of the neural activity that gives rise to specific symptoms, the
algorithm could design patterns tailored to each person’s needs.

The results appear online on Jan. 4, 2017, in the journal Science
Translational Medicine.

“Cutting energy use is important because when these devices’ primary cell
batteries run out, they have to be replaced through a surgical procedure,”
said Warren Grill, the Edmund T. Pratt Jr. School Professor of Biomedical
Engineering. “Besides being expensive, studies have shown that that there is a
2 to 3 percent chance of infection, which goes up each time the procedure is
done. And because these batteries only last three to five years, someone
receiving an implant at age 50 could undergo many procedures in a lifetime.”

Grill and his colleagues developed timing patterns by splitting each second of
electrical pulses into five segments, which they further divided into 200
individual slices. Each segment formed one repetition of a pattern, with each
millisecond-long slice randomly receiving a pulse or a blank. With that number
of slices and no further restrictions, however, the researchers faced one
hundred quindecillion possible patterns. (That’s a 1 with 50 zeroes after it
-- far too many to test experimentally in a laboratory.)

To pick the most promising patterns out of this impossibly large haystack, the
team turned to computational evolution.

“The method works very similarly to biological evolution, but it occurs inside
of a computer,” said Grill. “In our world, instead of a giraffe’s neck getting
longer to reach higher leaves, the positions of electric pulses change so that
the pattern gets better over time.”

The evolutionary algorithm begins by randomly creating 10 patterns of deep
brain stimulation and testing them in a computational model of Parkinson’s
disease. The better a pattern performs, the more likely it is to “parent” a
new pattern. In each generation, the computer introduces random mutations into
the offspring as well as new “immigrant” patterns to keep the “gene pool”
fresh. After thousands of iterations, a new, highly efficient pattern is born.

In this case, the algorithm evaluated the patterns on two measures --
efficiency and effectiveness. By weighting the two appropriately, the computer
evolved patterns that used the least amount of energy while maintaining
performance just as good as a standard, constant stream of pulses.

The pattern that emerged used an average of only 45 pulses per second -- a
large reduction from the standard 130 to 185 used currently. That’s an energy
savings of 60 to 75 percent, which could double or triple the lifetime of the
implanted battery.

After receiving encouraging results from testing the pattern in rats with
Parkinson’s-like symptoms, Grill decided to test it in humans.

“But modern deep brain stimulation devices can’t deliver the patterns we’re
developing,” said Grill. “So we had to come up with an innovative approach.”

In collaboration with neurosurgeons at Duke Health and Emory Healthcare in
Atlanta, Grill and his team recruited Parkinson’s patients with deep brain
stimulation implants to test the pattern when they came in for surgical
battery replacements. Patients received only local anesthesia during the
surgical procedure, retaining control over many motor functions so researchers
could assess their symptoms. In between the removal and installation of the
new and old batteries, the researchers temporarily connected their test
devices to each patient’s implanted brain lead to test the new pattern.

The computationally evolved pattern performed just as well as the individually
optimized treatments developed by each patient’s neurologist over the course
of many years, while requiring substantially less energy.

This research was supported by the National Institutes of Health, including a
Javits Neuroscience Investigator Award to Grill to provide long-term support
to investigators with a history of exceptional talent, imagination and
preeminent scientific achievement (R01-NS040894, R37-NS040894, R01-NS079312).

“Optimized temporal pattern of brain stimulation designed by computational
evolution.” David T. Brocker, Brandon D. Swan, Rosa Q. So, Dennis A. Turner,
Robert E. Gross, Warren M. Grill. Science Translational Medicine, 2016. DOI:
10.1126/scitranslmed.aah3532.

###

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

