

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Sound Waves Separate Biological Nanoparticles for 'Liquid Biopsies'

September 18, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

A prototype device developed by an international team of engineers can sift
exceedingly tiny particles called exosomes from blood samples without having
to send samples off to a lab

A prototype device developed by an international team of engineers can sift
exceedingly tiny particles from blood samples without having to send samples
off to a lab. The device, which combines acoustic cell-sorting and
microfluidic technologies, could be a boon to both scientific research and
medical applications.

The system is optimized to sort out “exosomes,” biological nanoparticles
released from every type of cell in the body. Thought to play a large role in
cell-to-cell communication and disease transmission, they have been objects of
scientific curiosity since their discovery three decades ago.

The miniscule size of exosomes, however, makes them difficult to study and
challenging to separate from their native biological fluids. Current practices
involve spinning samples in a centrifuge for several hours or even days, often
damaging the exosomes by subjecting them to extremely high gravitational
forces. Even then, the procedure only captures a small fraction of the
nanoparticles present in the biological fluid.

In a paper appearing the week of Sept. 18 in the Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences, researchers from Duke University, the University of
Pittsburgh and Magee Womens Research Institute, the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology and Nanyang Technological University Singapore, demonstrate a
better method based on “acoustofluidics,” a combination of acoustics and
microfluidics.

The prototype device provides a gentle, automated, point-of-care system that
allows single-step, on-chip isolation of exosomes from whole biological fluids
with a high rate of purity and yield.

The results could help researchers and clinicians learn more about exosomes
and form the foundation for diagnostic or therapeutic devices. The device may
enable diagnosis and monitoring of many conditions with a simple blood draw
and ‘liquid biopsy,’ including cancer, concussions and diseases affecting the
brain, kidney, liver and placenta.

“Exosomes have significant potential in medical diagnosis and treatment, but
the current technologies for exosome isolation suffer from drawbacks such as
long turnaround time, inconsistency, low yield, contamination and uncertain
exosome integrity,” said Tony Jun Huang, professor of mechanical engineering
and materials science at Duke. “This work offers a new technique that can
address these issues. We want to make extracting high-quality exosomes as
simple as pushing a button and getting the desired samples within 10 minutes.”

“The capability of this method to separate exosomes without altering their
biological or physical characteristics potentially offers new pathways to
assess human health as well as the onset and progression of diseases,” said
Subra Suresh, co-corresponding author of the paper and president-designate of
Nanyang Technological University Singapore, the 21st Century Professor of
Biomechanics in Medicine at the University of Pittsburgh Medical School, and
former president of Carnegie Mellon University.

The prototype device built by Huang and his colleagues creates a high-
frequency sound wave traveling at an angle to liquid flowing down a tiny tube.
By carefully tailoring the angle and frequency of the sound wave to the length
of the channel and size of the particles, they can push any particle bigger
than 1,000 nanometers into a separate channel.

This removes elements of blood such as white blood cells, red blood cells and
platelets. The fluid then goes through a second chamber, where the same force
is used to filter out everything smaller than 130 nanometers, which is about
the size of most exosomes and 500 times smaller than the thickness of the
human hair.

The dual-stage technique showed the ability to separate more than 80 percent
of exosomes present with a purity of 98 percent, compared to current methods
that capture only 5 to 40 percent of exosomes.

“The new device can eliminate all blood cells and platelets first before
efficiently separating extracellular vesicles such as exosomes,” explained
Ming Dao, director of the Nanomechanics Laboratory at MIT. “This new
generation of integrated device design makes it possible for centrifugation-
free sorting of different blood components, which can drastically reduce the
cost and processing time involved with liquid biopsy assays.”

“This will add a new dimension to research into ‘liquid biopsies’ and
facilitate the clinical use of extracellular vesicles to inform the physiology
and health of organs that are hard to access, such as the placenta during
human pregnancy,” said Yoel Sadovsky, director of the Magee-Womens Research
Institute at the University of Pittsburgh. “While using exosomes for these
purposes is not yet proven, that is the promise of our research.”

This work was supported by the National Institutes of Health (R01 HD086325)
and the National Science Foundation (IIP-1534645).

CITATION: “Isolation of exosomes from whole blood by integrating acoustics and
microfluidics,” Mengxi Wu, Yingshi Ouyang, Zeyu Wang, Rui Zhang, Po-Hsun
Huang, Chuyi Chen, Hui Li, Peng Li, David Quinn, Ming Dao, Subra Suresh, Yoel
Sadovsky, Tony Jun Huang. PNAS, Sept. 18, 2017. DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1709210114

###

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

