

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Predicting Forces between Oddly Shaped Nanoparticles

November 19, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

Simplified model of van der Waals forces will allow previously impossible
simulations of how faceted nanoparticles self-assemble into larger structures

Materials scientists at Duke University have devised a simplified method for
calculating the attractive forces that cause nanoparticles to self-assemble
into larger structures.

With this new model, accompanied by a graphical user interface that
demonstrates its power, researchers will be able to make previously impossible
predictions about how nanoparticles with a wide variety of shapes will
interact with one another. The new method offers opportunities for rationally
designing such particles for a wide range of applications from harnessing
solar energy to driving catalytic reactions.

The results appear online on November 12 in the journal _Nanoscale Horizons_.

“Faceted nanoparticles can lead to novel assembly behaviors, which haven’t
been explored in the past,” said Brian Hyun-jong Lee, a mechanical engineering
and materials science graduate student at Duke and first author of the paper.
“Cubes, prisms, rods and so on all exhibit distinct distance- and orientation-
dependent interparticle interactions that can be utilized to create unique
particle assemblies that one cannot obtain through self-assembly of spherical
particles.”

“Every time I go through the latest set of published papers in nanotechnology,
I see some new application of these types of nanoparticles,” added Gaurav
Arya, associate professor of mechanical engineering and materials science at
Duke. “But accurately calculating the forces that pull these particles
together at very close range is extremely computationally expensive. We have
now demonstrated an approach that speeds those calculations up by millions of
times while only losing a small amount of accuracy.”

The forces at work between nanoparticles are called van der Waals forces.
These forces arise because of small, temporary shifts in the density of
electrons orbiting atoms according to the complex laws of quantum physics.
While these forces are weaker than other intermolecular interactions such as
coulombic forces and hydrogen bonds, they are ubiquitous and act between each
and every atom, often dominating the net interaction between particles.

To properly account for such forces between particles, one must calculate the
van der Waals force that every atom in the particle exerts on every atom in a
nearby particle. Even if both of the particles in question were miniscule
cubes of sizes smaller than 10 nanometers , the number of calculations summing
all such interatomic interactions would be in the tens of millions.

It’s easy to see why trying to do this over and over for thousands of
particles located at different positions and in different orientations in a
multiparticle simulation quickly becomes impossible.

“Lots of work has been done to formulate a summation that gets close to an
analytical solution,” said Arya. “Some approaches treat particles as made up
of infinitesimally small cubes stuck together. Others try to fill space with
infinitesimally thin circular rings. While these volume-discretization
strategies have allowed researchers to obtain analytical solutions for
interactions between simple particle geometries like parallel flat surfaces or
spherical particles, such strategies cannot be used to simplify the
interactions between faceted particles due to their more complex geometries.”

To skirt around this issue, Lee and Arya took a different approach by making
several simplifications. The first step involves representing the particle as
being made up not of cubic elements, but of rod-shaped elements of various
lengths stacked together. The model then assumes that rods whose projections
fall outside the projected boundary of the other particle contribute
negligibly to the overall interaction energy.

The energies contributed by the remaining rods are further assumed to equal
the energies of rods of uniform lengths located the same normal distance as
the actual rods, but with zero lateral offset. The final trick is to
approximate the distance-dependence of the rod-particle energy using power-law
functions that have closed-form solutions when distances vary linearly with
the lateral position of the actual rods, as is case with the flat interacting
surfaces of faceted particles.

After all of these simplifications are made, analytical solutions for the
interparticle energies can be obtained, allowing a computer to breeze through
them. And while it may sound like they would introduce a large amount of
error, the researchers found that the results were only 8% off on average from
the actual answer for all particle configurations, and only 25% different at
their worst.

While the researchers primarily worked with cubes, they also showed that the
approach works with triangular prisms, square rods and square pyramids.
Depending on the shape and material of the nanoparticles, the modeling
approach could impact a wide range of fields. For example, silver or gold
nanocubes with edges close to one another can harness and focus light into
tiny “hotspots,” creating an opportunity for better sensors or catalyzing
chemical reactions.

“This is the first time that anyone has proposed an analytical model for van
der Waals interactions between faceted particles,” said Arya. “Even though we
are yet to apply it for computing interparticle forces or energies within
molecular dynamics or Monte Carlo simulations of particle assembly, we expect
the model to speed up such simulations by as much as ten orders of magnitude.”

This research was supported by the National Science Foundation (CMMI award
1636356, ACI-1053575).

CITATION: “Analytical van der Waals Interaction Potential for Faceted
Nanoparticles.” Brian Hyun-jong Lee, Gaurav Arya. Nanoscale Horizons, 2020.
DOI: 10.1039/d0nh00526f

## Related News

March 26, 2019

### Layered Liquids Arrange Nanoparticles into Useful Configurations

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

