

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Farsiu, Krolik Elected Fellows of the IEEE

December 4, 2019

Duke engineers honored for research improving ophthalmic image processing and
resolution and contributions to statistical signal and sensor array processing
for radar and sonar

Sina Farsiu, the Paul Ruffin Scarborough Associate Professor of Engineering,
and Jeffrey Krolik, professor of electrical and computer engineering, have
been named fellows of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
(IEEE), the world's largest technical professional organization dedicated to
advancing technology for the benefit of humanity.

Each year, following a rigorous evaluation procedure, the IEEE Fellow
Committee recommends a select group of recipients for elevation to IEEE
fellow. Less than 0.1 percent of voting members are selected annually for this
honor.

With appointments in biomedical engineering, ophthalmology, electrical and
computer engineering, and computer science, Farsiu was recognized for his
“contributions to multi-frame super resolution and ophthalmic image
processing.” Farsiu’s foundational contributions to the field of multi-frame
super-resolution has been utilized in a variety of imaging systems from cell
phone cameras to digital microscopes to capture high-quality images without
the need to use expensive imaging hardware

On another front, for more than a decade at Duke, Farsiu has been a trail-
blazer in introducing modern image processing and computation methods in the
field of ophthalmic imaging. For example, Farsiu has helped produce the first
portable adaptive optics scanning laser ophthalmoscopy (AOSLO) which can show
researchers the neurons in the eye in vivo. He has also developed the first AI
algorithm that can autonomously locate difficult-to-spot photoreceptors on
AOSLO images.

Farsiu was the first to develop an AI system to automatically detect multiple
diseases of the eye from optical coherence tomography (OCT) images of the
retina. And in other recent work, he has developed AI algorithms that can that
can tailor treatment to specific patients afflicted by diabetic macular
edema—a leading cause of blindness in working-age Americans.

Having recently returned to Duke after spending five years as a program
manager for the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), Krolik was
cited for “contributions to statistical signal and sensor array processing for
radar and sonar.” His principal contributions in this field have been to
improve data analysis methods for the detection and localization of moving
objects (known as “targets”) using radio frequency and sound waves in
complicated environments.

Radar and sonars traditionally work best when there is a single, line-of-sight
path from the sensors to the target. But when waves propagate along different
paths (known as multipath), bending, reflecting, and/or scattering off objects
on their way to and from a target, the problem of target detection and
localization becomes much more challenging. In his early work, he developed
sensor array processing methods which exploits multipath in underwater ocean
sound channels to improve passive sonar detection and localization of
submarines, even when the details of the ocean environment are uncertain.

In later work, Krolik and his colleagues were among the first to develop
multiple-input-multiple-output (MIMO) waveforms and processing for radar
systems. Their application of MIMO radar was initially for over-the-horizon,
high frequency radar, where they were able to mitigate multipath ground
reflections that would have otherwise masked targets of interest. They also
built a first-of-its-kind MIMO microwave radar which was used to develop
signal processing for automotive and indoor target tracking applications.

In the last few years, this same form of MIMO radar has been implemented as a
“radar-on-a-chip” by large semiconductor manufacturers at millimeter-wave
frequencies. Although this exciting development is motivated by the burgeoning
market for automotive radars, Krolik is already exploring the use of these
MIMO radar chips in many other applications from health care to national
security.

## Related News

November 17, 2015

### Farsiu Named Senior Area Editor for IEEE Transactions on Image Processing

August 27, 2014

### Sina Farsiu: Processing an Avalanche of Images

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

