

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Filling a Bioinformatic Training Gap

September 3, 2015

Duke and NC A&T Awarded $3 Million to Develop an Integrative Bioinformatics
Graduate Training Program to Investigate and Engineer Microbiomes

Duke University and NC A&T have been awarded a National Science Foundation
Research Traineeship grant to develop a program for graduate students who are
interested in microbiome research. This program is designed to transcend
communication barriers between disciplines and promote team science.

Combining advanced genomic analyses with biostatistical and bioinformatic
tools presents a powerful approach to explore the complex microbial
interactions underlying microbiome composition and function. Yet academic
institutions have often struggled to keep pace with the growing and diverse
biostatistical and bioinformatic training demands of students with various
backgrounds.

With the support of the $3 million, five-year grant, project leaders across
both institutions will create an interdisciplinary educational platform for
biologists, engineers, computer scientists and biostatisticians. The new
training program will address current training gaps by creating an educational
model where microbiologists, engineers, statisticians and other empirical
scientists will be cross-trained with theorists, model builders and
computational scientists. They will also learn to engage with the community
through outreach activities aimed at promoting science and engineering to the
general public.

The project is a collaboration between North Carolina A&T State University and
various corners of Duke’s campus, including Pratt, the Nicholas School of the
Environment, Trinity College of Arts and Sciences, and the School of Medicine.
If successful, similar training programs could be implemented by schools
nationwide.

“This program will fill a critical training gap,” said Claudia Gunsch,
associate professor of civil and environmental engineering and principal
investigator on the grant. “We want to attract students from diverse fields
and train them to work together. This is a fantastic opportunity to bring
students together who do not typically interact and open their eyes to other
activities or careers that they might not have otherwise heard about.
Ultimately, we hope this program will better prepare our students to meet
future research needs and accelerate research innovation.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

