

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# First Year, First Patent Pending

April 9, 2019

In Duke Engineering’s first-year design course, five students designed an
innovative tool that helps get artwork hung just right

Properly displaying art is difficult, as you know if you’ve ever spent an
afternoon with a level in one hand and a hammer in the other, trying to hang a
poster perfectly straight on the wall.

For world-class art museums like the Nasher at Duke University, stakes can be
higher even than botched aesthetics; the art they exhibit is irreplaceable,
and every time they have to remove a piece from the wall to straighten it,
there is the possibility of damaging the artwork. Brad Johnson, an exhibition
designer at the Nasher, thought that using an adjustable wall hook—one that
would allow the art to stay on the wall while the level is adjusted—would
present less risk, and be quicker for the installer.

He thought Duke Engineering students might be able to tackle the challenge,
and he brought the problem to Ann Saterbak, director of Duke Engineering’s
First-Year Experience. In the school’s foundational EGR 101L: First-Year
Design class, students work in teams to design solutions for real community
clients.

Five students—Randall Johnson, Will Eisner, John Gross, Sean Park, and Paul
Kim—took on Johnson’s challenge. Over the course of their first college
semester, they designed a durable, adjustable wall hanger capable of bearing
up to 400 pounds, and they did it at a cost of less than ten dollars per unit.
The team’s invention allows for the vertical adjustment of a hanging artwork
by moving a block-hook complex up or down the channel of its carriage.

With funding support from Pratt and mentorship from mechanical engineering and
materials science faculty member Ken Gall, the team has moved to patent its
design. The students have sent prototypes of the hanger to museums around the
country, and are hoping that the feedback they receive will allow them to
perfect the product. Under the terms of a rolling provisional patent, they
have until December 2019 to make further improvements to the hanger’s utility
and design.

Johnson said once the hooks are perfected, the Nasher will benefit from using
them with larger and heavier framed artworks.

Eisner, a mechanical engineering student, said that he decided to study
engineering to develop his critical thinking, and EGR 101L delivered. “Having
this experience was a totally new way to understand what I can do with my
skills,” he said.

> "We’re struggling through math and physics just like everyone else, but this
> experience has shown us the light at the end of the tunnel, and shows you
> the extent of what you can do with this education."
>
> John Gross, ME '22

Gross, also a mechanical engineering student, agreed. “To see something you do
as a freshman affect the real world is just incredible. We’re struggling
through math and physics just like everyone else, but this experience has
shown us the light at the end of the tunnel, and shows you the extent of what
you can do with this education.”

Learn more about first-year design

Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate experience »

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

