

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Five Duke Engineering PhD Students Named Burroughs Wellcome Fund Fellows

June 27, 2022 | Elizabeth Witherspoon

Fellowships support professional development for research in biological
sciences, climate change and human health

Complex problems in biological sciences, climate change and human health
require quantitative thinking, teamwork and creative problem solving. These
skills are the foundation of an engineering education.

Thanks to a one-year pilot award program from the Burroughs Wellcome Fund
(BWF), five PhD students in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical
Engineering & Materials Science (MEMS) are receiving support to advance their
research in these areas by providing $1,000 each for professional development,
including conference travel, visits to collaborators and workshop
registrations.

“Our goal is to expand the talent pool of engineers working in these areas by
training interdisciplinary mechanical engineers and materials scientists and
preparing them to contribute to these challenging problems,” said Christine
Payne, director of graduate studies and professor in MEMS.

This aligns with the department’s goals, inspired by the Pratt School of
Engineering’s 2039 strategic planning initiative, of addressing big questions
and working in service to society, said Payne.

The range of research interests by these fellows spans computation and machine
learning to accelerate biodegradable polymer design to power system
stabilization for renewable energy generation, and more.

“BWF is excited to fund this pilot project with MEMS to provide professional
development support to interdisciplinary graduate students who come from
diverse backgrounds. Diversity, equity and inclusion are pillars of BWF’s
mission, and we look forward to supporting these amazing students who are
truly working on cutting-edge science at the scientific interface,” said Kelly
Rose, the program officer with BWF that manages this award.

## Meet the Burroughs Wellcome Fund Fellows

### ****

### Jessica Lalonde

A third-year PhD student whose research focuses on using computation and
machine learning to accelerate biodegradable polymer design by predicting
degradation performance. Analysis of these polymers will improve plastic
materials design for optimum degradation.

She earned her BS in materials science and engineering and her BA in biology
from Case Western Reserve University in 2019. In addition to her research, she
is active as a co-founding member and officer of the Duke student chapter of
the Materials Research Society (MRS), a volunteer Bass Connections Fellow for
sustainable reproductive health solutions and a bike mechanic at the Durham
Bicycle Co-Op.

Advisor: Jennifer West and Stefan Zauscher

### ****

### Ethan LoCicero

A fourth-year PhD candidate, whose research focuses on power system
stabilization for renewable energy generation, as he explains in this two-
minute video.

He plans to use the funds to visit the University of New Mexico this fall to
work closely with collaborators, collect data and use the data to design new
controllers capable of stabilizing power systems with distributed renewable
energy generation. This work will be crucial to the transition to a
sustainable energy future, said LoCicero.

He earned his BS in mechanical engineering at the University of Notre Dame in
2019. In addition to his research, he enjoys rock climbing and playing soccer.

Advisor: Leila Bridgeman

### ****

### Concetta Morino

A third-year PhD candidate in the Duke Injury Biomechanics Laboratory.
Morino’s research characterizes the biomechanical causes of chronic lower back
pain and identifies specific lumbar injury biomarkers to improve diagnosis.

She earned her BS in mechanical engineering from The Ohio State University in
2019.

Outside of research, Morino has served as recruitment chair for the Duke MEMS
PhD program, and co-founded a diversity, equity, inclusion and community
program to mentor applicants through the PhD application process.

Advisor: Cameron Bass

### ****

### Hunter Newman

A third-year PhD candidate whose research focuses on developing novel
biomaterial-based technologies to improve bone disorders such as osteoporosis
and fracture healing.

Newman said he plans to use the funds to purchase a “much needed new computer
system.”

He earned his BS in biochemistry from Boston College in 2016 and MS in
Biomedical Sciences from Tufts University School of Medicine in 2018.

In addition to his research, Newman has served as a Fellow in the Duke Office
of Translation and Commercialization (OTC), where he assesses the commercial
viability of Duke innovations.

Advisor: Shyni Varghese

### ****Amy Strong

A first-year PhD student whose research focuses on designing controls for an
autonomous robotic medical ultrasound system to scan highly deformable tissue,
such as breast tissue, safely and effectively. She earned her BME and MS
degrees in mechanical engineering at Auburn University.

Strong said the funding will enable her to attend the Military Health System
Research Symposium in September, where she will present the poster,
“Autonomous Ultrasound Scanning for Complex, Deformable Tissue.”

Outside of research, she enjoys reading, running and exploring Durham, Duke's
hometown.

Advisor: Leila Bridgeman

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

