

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Fun in a Box: Happy Meal Challenge Teaches First-Year Students Design
Thinking

April 20, 2017

Duke parent connects class with engineers who design the Happy Meal's iconic
toys

  * See more photos

Even before they came to the Pratt School of Engineering, first-year students
in the EGR 121 class knew the best thing inside a McDonald’s Happy Meal is the
toy – but now they also know how they might design one.

The major project of the Engineering Innovation course in Pratt's Department
of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science is to work in a two- or three-
student team to design a toy that will fit in a Happy Meal box. It should be
safe and fun, and come in at a reasonable cost. Prototypes are created and, in
the end, the proposal is pitched in a few short minutes to a committee of
professors and teaching assistants.

This year, students received an inside look at the process from Michael
Edelstein P’20, a father of a student in the class and a vice president at the
firm that designs toys for McDonald’s Happy Meals – a fact which makes that
company one of the largest manufacturers of toys and premium products in the
world.

For their proposal, students Barbara Groh and Samuel Lester drew inspiration
from a galaxy far, far away: toy lightsabers to promote the next film in the
Star Wars saga.

In a dramatic flourish at the top of their pitch, Groh and Lester flicked
their wrists and the cylindrical toys, at first short enough to fit in
McDonald’s iconic paperboard Happy Meal box, telescoped to more than a foot in
length.

“The prototypes are 3D-printed ABS plastic, but we think the final product
would be made in polypropylene,” said Lester, noting the low cost and known
food safety of that material.

> In a dramatic flourish, the students flicked their wrists and their toys, at
> first short enough to fit in a paperboard Happy Meal box, telescoped to more
> than a foot in length.

Even though they liked what they saw, their instructors wanted to know the
numbers. Groh had answers ready. She said the team had calculated sales in the
millions, with each one costing an efficient 38 cents to make.

They had a marketing plan, too – the toy, they said would come with
interchangeable empire and rebellion symbols, allowing a child to start their
play story by choosing a side in the fight to control the galaxy.

Other proposals included a McDonald’s-branded enchute inspired by Central
American cup-and-ball toys, a spring-loaded ball shooter and soccer goal, and
a rubber band-powered airplane made up like a bird of prey.

“The purpose of this project and the class is to introduce first-year students
to design thinking and the design process through hands-on work,” said course
instructor Rebecca Simmons, an assistant professor of the practice in the
Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science, who teaches
several introductory engineering classes focused on design and analysis. “It
all comes together in the pitch, where students not only have to bring their
prototype and their data, but their enthusiasm and energy for the idea they
have developed.”

Edelstein, vice president for brand partnerships and retail product for The
Marketing Store, the Chicago-based company that helps design and make Happy
Meal toys for McDonald’s restaurants around the world, spoke to students the
day before they made their project pitches. He phone-conferenced colleague
engineers into the classroom who work every day through problems much like
those the students were tackling. They discussed the fast-paced and complex
two-year process from design concept to manufacturing and distribution.

“Engineers have a lot they have to balance and get right,” said Edelstein,
whose son Ben is a Pratt first-year student. “They have to make sure each
product is fun and fits its marketing purpose, but they also have to consider
safety, cost and the limitations of materials and manufacturing processes.”

The students appreciated how closely their project matched industry
experience, said instructor Greg Twiss, an expert in product development and
an adjunct associate professor in the Pratt School of Engineering.

“It’s hard to replicate that exactly in an academic environment, but this
project comes very close,” he said. “Importantly, it also shows that in the
product design process there is creativity, but there is also ambiguity and
factors to balance. There is no one ‘right’ answer. That’s the biggest
lesson.”

## More Photos on Facebook

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

