

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Gersbach Named Rooney Family Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering

March 11, 2016

Charles Gersbach has been named the Rooney Family Associate Professor of
Biomedical Engineering in Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering.

The professorship, established in 2014 by a gift from Timothy Rooney E’80,
MBA’82 and Mary Rooney as part of the Vinik Faculty Challenge, honors an
associate professor at Pratt whose work addresses societal grand challenges.
The chair was initially held by Nenad Bursac, a leader in cardiac and skeletal
tissue engineering, who has been promoted to a full professorship.

Gersbach’s research uses genome engineering techniques to treat genetic
diseases, regenerate damaged tissues, and study fundamental biological
processes. Most recently, his work has focused on the emerging technology
called CRISPR-Cas9, which he has used to move toward a cure for Duchenne
muscular dystrophy, turn genes on and off with light, and control gene
expression through epigenetic markers.

Gersbach arrived at Duke in 2009 as an assistant professor and received tenure
in 2015. He has more than 50 peer-reviewed publications—many of which are in
leading journals in fields such as Science, Nature Biotechnology, Nature
Methods, Nature Chemical Biology and the Proceedings of the National Academy
of Sciences. He is the recipient of a National Science Foundation CAREER
Award, a National Institutes of Health Director's New Innovator Award and the
American Society of Gene and Cell Therapy Outstanding New Investigator Award.

In the relatively short time since his arrival, Gersbach has graduated four
PhD students. In addition, he has assumed a major service role as director of
the Center for Biomolecular and Tissue Engineering and the principal
investigator of the associated National Institutes of Health biotechnology
training grant.

The Rooney Family Associate Professorship was made possible by a donation made
by Timothy and Mary Rooney. Timothy Rooney graduated from Duke with a BSE in
civil engineering in 1980 and an MBA two years later. He then began work for
the Manhattan Construction Company where he remained until 2006, after rising
to position of CEO. He is currently managing partner of Builder Capital
Investments, based in Dallas, Texas, and a member of the Pratt Board of
Visitors.

The endowed chair was created as part of the $10 million Vinik Faculty
Challenge, a dollar-for-dollar matching fund earmarked to create 10
professorships in engineering dedicated to addressing problems that affect
quality of life.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

