

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Glassfrogs Hide Red Blood Cells in Their Liver to Become Transparent

December 27, 2022 | Michaela Kane

Researchers finally decipher how a species of frog becomes a master of
camouflage with the help of modern biomedical imaging techniques

Glassfrogs make themselves transparent while they rest by taking red blood
cells from circulation and concealing them in their livers. A multi-university
team of biologists and biomedical engineers has shown how these frogs make
themselves see-through in research that appears December 23 in the journal
Science.

It’s easy to miss a glassfrog in its natural environment. The northern
glassfrog, Hyalinobatrachium fleischmanni,measures no more than a few
centimeters, and they are most active at night, when their green skin helps
them blend in with the surrounding leaves and foliage.

But these amphibians become true masters of camouflage during the day when
they’re asleep.

“When glassfrogs are resting, their muscles and skin become transparent, and
their bones, eyes and internal organs are all that’s visible,” said Carlos
Taboada, a post-doctoral fellow at Duke and a co-first author of the paper.
“These frogs sleep on the bottoms of large leaves, and when they’re
transparent, they can perfectly match the colors of the vegetation.”

Many animals in the sea can change the color of their skin or become
completely transparent, but it’s a far less common skillset on land. One
reason transparency is so difficult to achieve is because of red blood cells
in the circulatory system. Red blood cells are adept at absorbing green light,
which is the color of light usually reflected by plants and other vegetation.
In return, these oxygen-rich cells reflect red light, making blood –– and by
extension the circulatory system –– highly visible, especially against a
bright green leaf.

Glassfrogs are some of the only land-based vertebrates that can achieve
transparency, which has made them a target for study. Taboada first began
studying glass frogs as a post-doctoral fellow in the lab of Sönke Johnsen, a
professor of biology at Duke who specializes in studying transparency. Working
with Jesse Delia, who traveled around the world collecting different
glassfrogs for the study, they observed that red blood cells seemed to be
disappearing from the circulating blood whenever the frogs became transparent.

They conducted additional imaging tests on the animals, proving via optical
models that the animals were able to achieve transparency because they were
pushing red blood cells out of their vessels. He suspected that the cells were
being stored in one of the frog’s inner organs which are packaged in a
reflective membrane.

For a see-through animal, its biology was shockingly challenging to decipher.
The research drew on the expertise of biologists and biomedical engineers not
only at Duke but at the American Museum of Natural History, Stanford
University and the University of Southern California.

“If these frogs are awake, stressed or under anesthesia their circulatory
system is full of red blood cells and they are opaque,” explained Delia, now a
post-doctoral fellow at the American Museum of Natural History. “The only way
to study transparency is if these animals are happily asleep, which is
difficult to achieve in a research lab. We were really banging our heads
against the wall for a solution.”

But Taboada had learned about an imaging technology called photoacoustic
microscopy, or PAM, when he was studying biliverdin, the compound that gives
certain species of frogs their signature green color. PAM involves shooting a
safe laser beam of light into tissue, which is then absorbed by molecules and
converted into ultrasonic waves. These sound waves are then used to make
detailed biomedical images of the molecules. The imaging tool is non-invasive,
quiet, sensitive and, in a stroke of luck, available at Duke.

“PAM is the ideal tool for non-invasive imaging of red blood cells because you
don’t need to inject contrast agents, which would be very difficult for these
frogs,” explained Junjie Yao, an assistant professor of Biomedical Engineering
at Duke who specializes in PAM technologies. “The red blood cells themselves
provide the contrast, because different types of cells absorb and reflect
different wavelengths of light. We could optimize our imaging systems to
specifically look for red blood cells and track how much oxygen was
circulating in the frog’s bodies.”

In their imaging set-up, the frogs slept upside down in a petri dish, similar
to how they would sleep on a leaf, and the team shined a green laser at the
animal. The red blood cells in the frog’s body absorbed the green light and
emitted ultrasonic waves, which were then picked up by an acoustic sensor to
trace their whereabouts, with high spatial resolution and high sensitivity.

The results were startlingly clear: When the frogs were asleep, they removed
nearly 90 percent of their circulating red blood cells and stored them in
their liver.

In further tests, the team also saw that red blood cells flowed out of the
liver and circulated when the frogs were active, and then re-aggregated in the
liver while the frogs were recovering.

“The primary result is that whenever glassfrogs want to be transparent, which
is typically when they're at rest and vulnerable to predation, they filter
nearly all the red blood cells out of their blood and hide them in a mirror-
coated liver -- somehow avoiding creating a huge blood clot in the process,”
said Johnsen. “Whenever the frogs need to become active again, they bring the
cells back into the blood stream, which gives them the metabolic capacity to
move around.”

According to Delia and Taboada, this process raises questions about how the
frogs can safely store almost all their red blood cells in their liver without
clotting or damaging their peripheral tissues. One potential next step, they
said, could be to study this mechanism and how it could one day apply to
vascular issues in humans.

This work also introduces glassfrogs as a useful model for research,
especially when paired with the state-of-the-art photoacoustic imaging. As
long-time glassfrog researchers, they are excited about the new avenues of
study now available to them and interested collaborators.

“We can learn more about the glassfrog’s physiology and behavior, or we can
use these models to optimize imaging tools for biomedical engineering,” Delia
said. “This started because Carlos and I thought this frog was doing something
weird with its blood, and it led to productive collaborations both at Duke and
across the globe.”

“Our successful collaboration has been a great example of how multiple
disciplines can jointly advance science in the most synergistic way,” said
Yao. “We are extremely excited about the future interactions between the
biology and engineering teams. With all the strength on board, the sky is the
limit.”

This work was supported the National Geographic Society grant (NGS-65348R-19),
the Human Frontier Science Program postdoctoral fellowship (LT 000660/2018-L),
the Gerstner Scholars Fellowship provided by the Gerstner Family Foundation
and the Richard Gilder Graduate School at the American Museum of Natural
History, start-up funds from Stanford University and start-up funds from Duke
University, the National Institutes of Health grants (R01 EB028143 R01
NS111039 and RF1 NS115581 BRAIN Initiative), the National Science Foundation
CAREER Award (2144788), the Duke Institute of Brain Science Incubator award,
the American Heart Association Collaborative Sciences award (18CSA34080277),
and the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative (2020-226178).

CITATION: “Glassfrogs Conceal Blood in Their Liver to Maintain Transparency,”
Carlos Taboada, Jesse Delia, Maomao Chen, Chenshuo Ma, Xiaorui Peng, Xiaoyi
Zhu, Liaming Jiang, Tri Vu, Qifa Zhou, Junjie Yao, Laureo O’Connell, Sonke
Johnsen. Science, December 22, 2022. DOI: 10.1126/science.abl6620

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

