

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke, RTI International Partner on Improved Global Sanitation

August 28, 2017 | by Karl Leif Bates

Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation providing $10.7 million toward the effort

_FromDuke Today  
_

When it comes to improving the human condition, it doesn’t get much more
fundamental than the safe handling and treatment of raw sewage.

Yet 40 percent of the world’s population—2.5 billion people—practice open
defecation or lack adequate sanitation facilities. In the world’s rapidly
growing urban areas, where household and communal toilets are more prevalent,
2 billion people are using toilets connected to septic tanks that are not
safely emptied or systems that discharge raw sewage into open drains or
surface waters.

And because of this, approximately 525,000 children under five die each year
from diarrheal illnesses, according to the World Health Organization.

Building off two grants totaling $10.7 million from the Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation, Duke University and its partners hope to become an international
hub for studying practical, scalable solutions to the waste treatment and
sanitation problem.

The Gates Foundation recently awarded $7 million for phase three funding of
the Reinvent the Toilet project led by Duke with partners at RTI
International, Colorado State University and several other evolving
partnerships. The effort -- led by Brian R. Stoner, a Duke-RTI scholar who is
joining Duke electrical and computer engineering (ECE) full-time in October,
and ECE professor Jeff Glass -- is developing an off-grid energy neutral
sanitation system currently being tested in India.

As part of phase three, the researchers will continue their prototype testing
in India and will expand to South Africa by installing a toilet prototype in a
township outside of Durban in collaboration with partners there.

RTI Toilet Animation (2015) from A Better Toilet on Vimeo.

During this new phase, researchers will explore ways to minimize the energy
required to treat waste and control the odors that often prevent widespread
adoption of toilet systems. Stoner and Glass will also continue their Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation-supported collaboration with Marc Deshusses,
professor of civil and environmental engineering at Duke, who leads
complementary research efforts on both self-contained toilet systems and
central waste processing units.

Earlier this month, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation awarded $3.7 million
over two years for Duke to establish a new Sanitation Technology Cluster,
which will go beyond toilet designs to fill various gaps in sanitation
solutions. The cluster will work with partners around the world to develop new
technologies and improve access to water, sanitation & hygiene (WASH).
Proposed projects include a microbiome analysis of fecal sludges around the
world, high-efficiency combustion technologies that use feces as a fuel and
prototypes that safely dispose of and treat menstrual waste on-site.

The technology cluster grant, led by Stoner, brings together faculty from
Duke’s Global Health Institute, Sanford School of Public Policy, Pratt School
of Engineering and the Innovation & Entrepreneurship Initiative. The grant
will also fund partnerships with industry to help move innovations from the
lab to the field.

“We can save lives, improve child health and ensure greater dignity, privacy
and personal safety, particularly for women and girls,” Stoner said. In India
for example, approximately 25 percent of girls drop out of school when they
reach puberty due in part to a lack of access to safe and effective disposal
options for menstrual hygiene products.

Researchers will also examine social, economic and policy issues that would
affect the success of new sanitation technologies. “Many technical innovations
fail when introduced into unfamiliar surroundings, for reasons unrelated to
the engineering,” Stoner said.

Glass added that every dollar invested in better sanitation typically returns
more than $5 in social and economic benefits, such as prevention of illness,
higher worker productivity and reduced healthcare costs.

Stoner and Glass said they expect this collaborative effort to lead to
improvements in toilet design, pit-emptying and sludge treatment, as well as
new ways to re-use waste.

“The real value of this clustered approach is that we can encourage and manage
partnerships and develop cross-cutting insights,” Stoner said. “We’re going to
adopt a ‘fail early/fail fast’ culture.”

Visit washaid.pratt.duke.edu

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

