

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Going for (Robot) Gold

May 16, 2018

Students build and program small robots to complete this year's Integrated
Design Challenge

A wheeled robot the size of a guinea pig travels along the perimeter of a bold
red circle stenciled onto a lab table. When it arrives back at its starting
point, it pauses for a moment, then confidently climbs the short ramp in front
of it. A pair of students observe keenly, making last-minute adjustments.

The Robot Olympics are about to begin.

This is the final presentation day of one of the 15 lab sections of ECE 110L,
a course that serves as the foundational first course for Electrical &
Computer Engineering (ECE) students and as a required course for Biomedical
Engineering (BME) students. Today, teams of students will demonstrate that the
robots they’ve been building and programming all semester can perform a set of
predetermined tasks as expected. Their robots will be challenged to sense the
color, number, height or weight of the objects around them, and to record that
data and communicate it to the group. If all goes smoothly, and all the robots
have the same set of data at the end of the task, they’ll sing the Olympic
anthem in unison, or perform a light show or do a little dance.

It’s not PyeongChang, but it’s still quite a spectacle.

In recent years, Duke Engineering has brought a stronger focus on design to
its undergraduate program. According to Kip Coonley, who manages the ECE
undergraduate labs, the introduction of ECE 110L to the curriculum has
revolutionized the undergraduate experience. “Before, students would learn
circuits one semester, then devices, then electromagnetics,” said Coonley. “We
were basically asking them to decide on a concentration before they had
experienced all of the focus areas. Now, we introduce the whole field in one
semester.”

For the first seven weeks of ECE 110L, the sensing tasks that students learn
in the lab echo what they learn in lecture—topics like signal processing,
digital logic and electromagnetics.

“Then,” said Coonley with a grin, “we set them free.”

Students spend the remainder of the semester independently exploring all the
lab has to offer, to achieve the goals of the Integrated Design Challenge
(IDC). The goals of the challenge change from year to year, so the range of
sensors and other components that a team experiments with changes as well, in
order to meet the new challenge. In previous years, the IDC’s theme has
borrowed from Star Wars, Mission Impossible and Alice in Wonderland. There was
a recent challenge that involved two robot chasers, two beaters and one seeker
in pursuit of an elusive Golden Snitch.

“While ECE 110L does provide a broad introduction to the discipline of ECE, we
wanted it to be much more than that. We’ve set up the class so that it
combines technical content that prepares them for their next courses with
applications that emphasize connections between different areas of ECE,” said
Professor of the Practice and Director of Undergraduate Studies Lisa Huettel.
“We want them to be excited so that they can’t wait to take another ECE
course!”

“It was an integral part of my decision to major in ECE,” said Kerry Castor,
ECE/BME ’20, who took the course last year and is serving as a teaching
assistant this spring. “The Integrated Design Challenge was my first
opportunity in college to work on any type of independent engineering project.
When my bot performed in the final demo, I felt a strong sense of
accomplishment after taking independent initiative towards a tangible goal. By
working as a TA for this lab, I was able to help other students learn to enjoy
the subject as much as I did.”

Study Electrical and Computer Engineering at Duke

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

