

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Good DEIDs

September 30, 2019 | Miranda Volborth

Duke engineering students worked to complete bridges in Bolivia and Uganda
this year

Most of us take bridges for granted. But students who worked with Duke
Engineers for International Development (DEID) in Bolivia or Uganda over the
past few years know firsthand the intense planning and effort these
construction projects require.

DEID is a student organization that supports high-impact engineering projects
around the world, partnering with underserved communities on cost-efficient
and sustainable projects aimed at improving the standard of living. Students
work on designs during the school year and lend a hand on implementation over
the summer months, gaining a global perspective on civil engineering as well
as practical project management experience.

This summer, two DEID teams saw bridge projects come to fruition: a pedestrian
footbridge in Siatha, Bolivia, and a vehicular bridge near Kanyegaramire
village, Uganda.

### Bolivia

Residents of Siatha are primarily farmers—but when the Rio Camata rises, they
are separated from their farmlands.

A pedestrian footbridge would provide safe, year-round access to not only
their main source of income, but also to neighboring communities, schools, and
health clinics.

The DEID Bolivia 2019 team worked with students from Duke, Virginia Tech,
Rutgers and Wyoming, the Engineers in Action (EIA) Bridge Program and
volunteers from Siatha for six weeks to build the needed footbridge. The team
excavated the site, set up the layout of the bridge and built the foundation,
tiers, towers, and anchors before hoisting the bridge cables and constructing
the bridge deck on top of them.

“Traveling to Bolivia made me realize the extent to which different lifestyles
and cultures could alter the way people think and act,” said Valerie Tsao ’22.
“It was challenging for me to bridge my own experience to the people of Siatha
at first, since our upbringings were worlds apart. It was amazing to see how
we could still come together to successfully complete the project.”

### Uganda

Uganda’s Kyenjojo district is about an hour away from the nearest village,
Kanyegaramire. For years, a single footbridge served people who wanted to
cross the Kahompo swamp on foot or by motorcycle—but when the 2018 team
arrived in the district last summer, it was clear that the bridge was not able
to serve the long-term needs of the community.

Not many of the community’s residents are capable of swimming, but many still
braved the water—or hired those who could swim—to carry them across.

The need for a permanent replacement bridge was even more urgent since
vehicular access was limited, especially during the rainy season. Local
community leaders reported that women were perishing in childbirth because
they could not make the long trip to the hospital.

Partnering with the government of Kyenjojo district and Bringing Hope to the
Family, members of the 2018 DEID team began to construct a vehicular bridge in
place of the existing, seasonally submerged footbridge. They cleared the swamp
and built the bridge’s foundation, and between their departure and the arrival
of the 2019 team, community members constructed the main frame of the bridge,
using steel culverts and masonry walls.

The 2019 DEID team worked to fill the gaps between the culverts with rock and
soil, compact the fill, and bend and lay out the steel needed to reinforce the
future walkway slab. After the team left, community volunteers finished
pouring the concrete for the slab and completed the ramps leading to the
walkway.

"The new bridge will ensure that those living in Kanyegaramire will have year-
round access to adequate health care and education, and stimulate economic
growth as well,” said James Marek ’22.

Faculty advisor David Schaad said DEID is hoping to partner with Duke Engage
next year, to send students to Bolivia to work on another pedestrian
footbridge in cooperation with EIA, and to Indonesia for a project marrying
water, health and sanitation.

Get involved

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

