

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Gorlatova Wins National Science Foundation CAREER Award

March 22, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

Prestigious five-year award will help improve augmented reality technology by
making use of nearby smart devices connected to the Internet of Things

Maria Gorlatova, the Nortel Networks Assistant Professor of Electrical and
Computer Engineering at Duke University, has been awarded a prestigious
National Science Foundation Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) Award.
The award supports outstanding young faculty members in their efforts to build
a successful research enterprise.

For the next five years, the $550,000 award will support Gorlatova’s
innovative work that uses nearby Internet of Things electronics to improve the
performance of augmented reality (AR) devices. The research will lay the
foundation for creating new experiences and abilities for AR ranging from
smart homes to the operating room.

“Augmented reality can be generated with mobile phones or headsets like a
HoloLens or Magic Leap, but there are currently all sorts of challenges no
matter the platform,” said Gorlatova. “For example, virtual content does not
stay in place like real objects, batteries drain too quickly or the devices
can’t keep up computationally. We’re proposing to use external devices already
in the environment to improve these issues.”

Anyone who has ever played Pokémon Go or bought new furniture with a
visualization app is familiar with the concept of AR. Pokémon Go overlays
characters to collect on a device’s screen to make it look like Pikachu is
standing on a street corner. Several furniture companies employ visualization
apps that make it look like a new couch is already sitting in your living
room’s empty corner.

But these simple visualizations only scratch the surface of what AR is capable
of. Imagine having virtual artwork displayed on your walls to match your mood
or to help cheer you up. Distracting objects could be covered up with a
hologram while you work. When cooking a new dish, AR could highlight the next
ingredient or object you’ll need in the process. AR could also help improve a
home’s safety. For example, when your toddler is toddling around, an AR
headset could warn of dangerous objects like a hot frying pan handle sticking
out.

At an art museum, imagine seeing ancient Greek statues in the true vibrant
colors they were originally painted in. In the medical field, imagine a
surgeon about to remove a brain tumor who can “see” exactly where to cut
thanks to a map created by a CAT scan virtually overlaid on the patient’s body
in real-time.

All of these concepts are close to becoming reality, and Gorlatova wants to
give their development a shot in the arm.

“We can take advantage of devices that are already generating some awareness
so that AR doesn’t have to do everything,” said Gorlatova.

For example, Gorlatova points to robotic vacuum cleaners and smart lights. A
robotic vacuum cleaner has already mapped out a home’s floor space so that it
can complete its daily routine, so an AR device could build from that data
rather than starting from scratch. All AR devices work best with well-lit
spaces, both so that they can read the room accurately and so that their
displays show up vividly. So why not tie the AR device into nearby smart
lights to create the perfect lighting conditions?

User preferences are also important, of course, as ultimately AR is about
helping the users, who have different goals and needs. Gorlatova’s research
will focus on not just how to integrate data generated by existing smart
devices into an AR experience, but how to optimize the user experience based
on their preferences and activities.

“To get to these ideal experiences, we first have to lay the foundational
work, which is truly what this project is aimed toward,” said Gorlatova.
“We’ll be examining how to let AR devices and users both have some control
over some of the environment, creating new metrics of user experience and
device performance, and converting those to quantifiable improvements. We want
to create a new understanding of AR systems so that we can make them
significantly more reliable than they are now.”

## Related News

August 13, 2020

###  Students Code Alternate Realities

September 06, 2018

### Maria Gorlatova: Creating an Intelligent Internet of Things

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

