

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Grand Challenges Scholar Strives for Equity in Water and Sanitation

May 9, 2019

Elizabeth Griffin CEE ’19 is determined to address the critical issue of water
and sanitation access

Over the course of her four years at Duke, Elizabeth Griffin took full
advantage of the diverse learning opportunities available to her as a student
of civil and environmental engineering.

Early on, she discovered a passion for global and service learning, thanks to
her participation in Duke Engineers for International Development. She also
studied abroad in Australia, conducted air quality research in Bolivia, and
attended national and international conferences. She took courses in global
development and health disparities in the United States, and worked as a
fellow in a product development shop that creates and commercializes health
technologies for low-resource settings.

And, she pointed out proudly, she still found plenty of time for Duke
basketball.

Griffin is a National Academy of Engineering (NAE) Grand Challenges Scholar,
and all of her experiences at Duke were hung on the framework of a single NAE
engineering challenge for the 21st Century: providing access to clean water.

The NAE identified 14 of these challenges in 2008, and in 2013 endorsed the
Grand Challenges Scholars Program—co-created by Duke, Olin College and the
University of Southern California—to prepare undergraduate students to meet
them. Through their participation, scholars help improve sustainability,
health, security and the joy of living worldwide.

> The “Grand Challenges” are exactly that: grand, both in intention and scope,
> and challenging.

The “Grand Challenges” are exactly that: grand, both in intention and scope,
and challenging. _Very_ challenging, in fact. Students who are accepted into
the program must complete a portfolio of work showcasing their activities in
hands-on research, interdisciplinary learning, entrepreneurship, global
experiences, and service-learning in time for graduation. In addition, they
must complete an original thesis.

Griffin’s thesis mapped human exposure to contaminated groundwater around hog
farms in eastern North Carolina. “I shifted from lab-based research to spatial
analysis using GIS mapping tools for my thesis,” said Griffin. “By making that
shift I was able to look at a problem on a much broader scale.” She presented
her project—which found higher exposures in Hispanic and African-American
families than white families, regardless of income—to faculty to earn the
Graduation with Departmental Distinction designation. She earned the Eric I.
Pas Award, given to a student with the most outstanding independent study
project, in the process.

> "It’s opened up my eyes to broader systemic injustices, especially racial
> and socioeconomic injustices—not just in the US, but worldwide. I really
> want to work to address those inequities.”
>
> ELIZABETH GRIFFIN CEE '19

Despite her success in the Grand Challenges Scholars Program, she says there
were times when she didn’t think she would be able to check all the necessary
boxes.

“The hardest aspect, for me, was the entrepreneurial side of it,” said
Griffin. “I’m not business-inclined, so finding opportunities to get
entrepreneurial skills was tough for me.”

But with support from her classmates and her advisor, CEE Professor of the
Practice David Schaad, she not only completed the program but arrived on the
other side with a feeling of tremendous accomplishment, and volumes of skills
and experiences she might not have otherwise gathered.

“The Grand Challenges program is a really good way to organize your education
and all your extracurricular activities,” Griffin reflected. “I feel like
almost everything I’ve done, even activities unrelated to my classes, has tied
into this portfolio somehow. It’s a great way to show people the trajectory of
your college experience.”

She emphasized that the wide range of experiences also helped her to clarify
her own goals and ambitions. Working on a Bass Connections project in Lowndes
County, Alabama, where inadequate water infrastructure has triggered a
resurgence of hookworm, was particularly illuminating, she said. “It’s opened
up my eyes to broader systemic injustices, especially racial and socioeconomic
injustices—not just in the US, but worldwide. I really want to work to address
those inequities.”

For those students whose interest in the Grand Challenges Scholars Program is
piqued, Griffin wanted to remind them of an additional sweetener.

“You do get up to $5,000 to complete the portfolio,” she said. “This is a huge
advantage. I wouldn’t have been able to complete this portfolio without the
funding. It offers opportunities to pursue global learning, service learning,
travel, research, conferences. It opens up so many doors.”

Apply to become a Grand Challenges Scholar

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

