

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Gregg Trahey Named a Fellow of IEEE

January 20, 2022 | Michaela Kane

Trahey was cited for his contributions to improve imaging methods and
technology used in medical ultrasound

Gregg Trahey, the Robert Plonsey Distinguished Professor of Biomedical
Engineering, was named a fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers (IEEE), the world’s largest technical professional organization
dedicated to advancing technology for the benefit of humanity.

Each year, following a rigorous evaluation procedure, the IEEE Fellow
Committee recommends a select group of recipients for evaluation to IEEE
fellow. Less than .1 percent of voting members are selected annually for this
honor.

With more than 40 years of ultrasound-centered research, Trahey was recognized
for his contributions to speckle tracking and acoustic radiation force imaging
in medical ultrasound imaging.

Speckle occurs when ultrasound waves hit small structures in tissue and
scatter. This scattering acts like noise and degrades an ultrasound image
quality. Because of its negative impact on image quality, speckle was usually
viewed as a hurdle for ultrasound imaging. But Trahey and his team probed how
they could use the noise to instead gain further information from their
images. By studying speckle patterns in two dimensions, the team saw that when
tissue moved, the speckle patterns also moved. Trahey was able to track the
displacement of speckle and use its movement to track blood flow using
ultrasound, which hadn’t been done before.

Acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI) imaging allows researchers to send an
ultrasonic impulse into tissue, which pushes on and momentarily displaces the
tissue. Trahey and his frequent collaborator Kathy Nightingale, the Theo
Pilkington Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering, discovered that
they could use ARFI to gather information about a tissue’s material
properties, based on how it responded to the application of force. The team
found that they could use ARFI to remotely push on a target area, and then use
ultrasound to image the resulting tissue motion to learn about the tissue’s
stiffness.

Understanding a tissue’s stiffness could then be used as a biomarker and help
with diagnostics. For example, researchers could send a pulse into breast
tissue to push on a cyst. Based on the movement of the cyst, researchers could
then use the resulting movement to detect if the cyst was filled with fluid or
if the mass was hard and immovable. The ARFI research was so successful that
it eventually led to the formation of an entirely new subfield of study in
ultrasound.

“It is an honor to be selected as an IEEE Fellow,” says Trahey. “The IEEE’s
journals and conferences provide the major forums for my lab’s dissemination
or research results and for our learning of the work of our peers. Of course,
as many of my colleagues can appreciate, my successes are largely due to the
talent and hard work of my students, staff and colleagues.”

The IEEE Grade of Fellow is conferred by the IEEE Board of Directors upon a
person with an outstanding record of accomplishments in any of the IEEE fields
of interest. The total number selected in any one year cannot exceed one-tenth
of one- percent of the total voting membership. IEEE Fellow is the highest
grade of membership and is recognized by the technical community as a
prestigious honor and an important career achievement.

The IEEE is the world’s leading professional association for advancing
technology for humanity. Through its 400,000 plus members in 160 countries,
the association is a leading authority on a wide variety of areas ranging from
aerospace systems, computers and telecommunications to biomedical engineering,
electric power and consumer electronics.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

