

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Guilleminot Receives NSF CAREER Award to Develop Modeling Frameworks and
Tools

March 31, 2020

Competitive five-year grant will support the creation of computational models
and software that could help innovators disrupt various markets through
3D-printed products

Johann Guilleminot, assistant professor of civil and environmental engineering
at Duke University, has been awarded a prestigious National Science Foundation
Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) Award. The award supports
outstanding young faculty members in their efforts to build a successful
research enterprise. For the next five years, the $570,000 grant will help
fund Guilleminot’s efforts to create foundational simulation and modeling
frameworks that accurately reflect the structural complexities and intrinsic
variability created by additive manufacturing.

Since the industrial revolution, manufacturing processes have entailed
creating large sheets of a material such as steel and then cutting away
unwanted features, much like a sculptor chiseling a statue out of granite.
With the advent of numerous types of 3D printers that can handle materials
from plastic to metal to biological tissue, engineers can now create much more
intricate shapes.

But these technologies are not perfect. Creating a part layer by layer
introduces variability and complexities that traditional manufacturing
techniques do not. This combination of intricate shapes and potential
inconsistencies creates substantial barriers to accurately predicting and
certifying the mechanical properties of many potential devices through the
modeling techniques of the past.

“We have long been developing a suite of tools to simulate and solve equations
for regular shapes, corresponding to idealized geometries, but now we’re
dealing with objects that don’t look like anything that has been produced
before,” said Guilleminot, who also holds a secondary appointment in
mechanical engineering and materials science. “The question now is can we
develop new tools that can support these new manufacturing techniques to help
make sure new and disruptive technologies can make it to the market.”

One the biggest hurdles to new materials and structures created through
additive manufacturing, Guilleminot explains, is the large variability they
exhibit at various length scales. But with new modeling tools, engineers could
create designs that greatly reduce uncertainties in a final product.

As part of the project, Guilleminot will collaborate with Ken Gall, professor
of mechanical engineering and materials science, biomedical engineering, and
orthopedic surgery at Duke, who specializes in developing biomedical devices
that take advantage of the intricacies that can be created by 3D printing. For
example, orthopedic implants can be printed with a complex architecture that
promotes bone formation and fusion.

Gall’s lab will produce samples of the devices they’re working on while
Guilleminot’s lab will design the tools to model their mechanical properties
and then use the physical devices to validate their predictions.

“The modeling technologies we are developing could be fully integrated into
the design procedures for these types of implants or to perform simulations on
tissues and organs on a patient-by-patient basis,” said Guilleminot. “Our
research will lay the groundwork for many of these types of additive
manufacturing applications that are expected to be disruptive in the coming
years.”

The grant also has an ambitious outreach component, which Guilleminot is
planning to take full advantage of. This part of the project will include
different activities at the North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences in
Raleigh featuring modeling software and small 3D printers, collaborations with
the FEMMES program and the Shared Materials Instrumentation Facility (SMIF) at
Duke, and activities offered at the Ronald McDonald House of Durham Wake.

## Related News

October 11, 2016

### Johann Guilleminot: Accounting for Variabilities That Matter

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

