

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Gut Microbiome Snapshot Could Reveal Chemical Exposures in Children

December 3, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

Study of how semi-volatile organic compounds affect bacteria and fungi reveals
new relationships and bacteria used for bioremediation in children's guts

Researchers at Duke University have completed the most comprehensive study to
date on how a class of persistent pollutants called semi-volatile organic
compounds (SVOCs) are associated with the gut microbiome in human children.

The results show that certain SVOCs are correlated with the abundance of
bacterial and fungal species living in the human digestive tract and may
affect them differently, providing a potential mechanism for measuring
exposure to a wide variety of these substances. The study also suggests that
exposure to toxic halogenated compounds, chemicals containing carbon and a
halogen such as chlorine and bromine, may create a niche for bacteria that
feed off of them—bacteria that are not usually found in the human gut.

“We found bacteria that researchers use for soil bioremediation to remove
chlorinated solvents, which is not an organism that you would expect to find
in somebody’s gut,” said Claudia Gunsch, the Theodore Kennedy Professor of
Civil and Environmental Engineering at Duke. “The reason it’s used in soils is
to detoxify and remove chlorines, which suggests that maybe that’s also
exactly why they’re in these guts.”

The results appear online on October 30 in the journal _Environmental Science
& Technology Letters_.

“We want to understand the impacts of exposure to SVOCs on our gut microbiome
and how that translates to positive or negative health outcomes,” Gunsch said.
“But right now it’s a big black box that we don’t understand.”

SVOCs are a broad class of odorless chemicals that are emitted from building
materials and consumer products, often slowly evaporating and settling on dust
particles and water droplets. Almost everyone in the developed world is
exposed regularly to at least some of these compounds, due to their common use
in industrial and consumer products.

The thought that these chemicals might have effects on the human microbiome
and impact health is relatively new, and the research to uncover what these
may be and why they occur is still in its infancy. One important line of work
is aimed at children because they typically have higher exposure rates, due to
spending more time playing on dusty floors where SVOCs accumulate, and because
their growing bodies are more susceptible to novel environmental stressors.

> “We found bacteria that researchers use for soil bioremediation to remove
> chlorinated solvents, which is not an organism that you would expect to find
> in somebody’s gut." - Claudia Gunsch

One avenue for causing turbulence in a growing child’s life is through
affecting the gut microbiome. Made up of the complex communities of bacteria
and fungi growing and living together throughout the human digestive tract,
the gut microbiome has been shown to have a clear importance to childhood
development as well as adult health. While some studies have already shown
that certain SVOCs have an impact on the gut microbiome of children, the
chemicals studied are just a tiny fraction of those that people are exposed
to.

“In theory, perturbations in the gut microbiome of children might be
associated with long-term health impacts,” added Courtney Gardner, assistant
professor of civil and environmental engineering at Washington State
University, who conducted the study while still a member of Gunsch’s
laboratory. “But before we can really study any of them for clear causations,
we need to get a sense of which SVOC classes seem to be the most negatively
associated with microbiome communities.”

In their first explorative foray into this field, Gunsch, Gardner and their
colleagues at Duke measured the levels of dozens of SVOCs circulating in the
bodies of almost 80 children between the ages of three and six. They also
characterized each of the children’s gut microbiome and then looked for
relationships between the differences they found and exposures to SVOCs.

There wasn’t any shortage of data to work with, as the researchers found 29
SVOC compounds in more than 95% of the samples taken. They also found
relationships between the compounds present in children’s blood or urine and
the relative amounts of key microbes, including 61 bacteria and 24 fungi.
After working through the various biomarkers and relationships, the
researchers came away with two interesting insights.

The first was that children with high levels of halogenated SVOCs have some
unusual guests in their guts.

The researchers also found that while some SVOCs had a negative effect on
bacteria in the gut microbiome, others had a positive effect. With more
research into exactly how these various chemicals affect the different species
of the gut in their own ways, this work may provide the possibility of using a
snapshot of the gut’s microbial community as a window into what SVOCs a child
has been exposed to.

“It’s currently really complicated and expensive to measure what chemicals
people have been exposed to if you don’t already know what you’re looking
for,” said Gunsch. “By contrast, this is pretty simple. If we could get a
reliable snapshot of SVOC exposure just by sequencing a microbiome’s genetic
signature, we could use that to help us understand more about the health
impacts these chemicals have on our children and ourselves.”

This research was supported by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
(83564201) and the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (R01
ES016099, T32-ES021432).

CITATION: “Exposures to Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds in Indoor Environments
and Associations with the Gut Microbiomes of Children,” Courtney M. Gardner,
Kate Hoffman, Heather M. Stapleton, Claudia K. Gunsch. Environmental Science &
Technology Letters, 2020. DOI: 10.1021/acs.estlett.0c00776

## Related News

March 14, 2017

### IBIEM Holds Inaugural Symposium on Microbiome Dynamics and Engineering

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

