

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Hai “Helen” Li: Modeling the Future of Computing After the Human Brain

December 21, 2016

New faculty member Hai “Helen” Li will create a brain-inspired computing
research program at Duke

Hai “Helen” Li will join the faculty of the Department of Electrical and
Computer Engineering at Duke University in January 2017. With significant
experience at both academic and corporate institutions, Li will forge a new
research group in “evolutionary intelligence” dedicated to developing the next
generation of computer hardware based on the fastest, most efficient example
we know of—the human brain.

Since 1965, the progress of computer technology has generally followed Moore’s
Law, doubling in processing power while shrinking in size every few years.
That trend is about to be bucked, however, as the number of transistors that
can be packed together is fast approaching fundamental physical limits.

The only way to continue the evolution of computing is to seek new methods of
storing and processing information that lie outside the realm of classical
transistors, memory caches and data pathways. Many researchers, including Li,
are looking to the human brain for inspiration. It’s a goal that was dubbed a
“Grand Challenge” by the White House in 2015; Li was among 15 scientists
nationwide invited to participate in a Department of Energy roundtable
discussion to determine the best paths forward.

“People have been trying to mimic the brain using conventional transistors for
decades with very little progress,” said Li, who joins Duke as an associate
professor after four years on the faculty of the University of Pittsburgh. “We
are instead trying to use emerging technology that can emulate the behaviors
of synapses to realize the high complexity and volume of neural connections.”

One example of this work is dubbed a “memristor.” As the name suggests, the
evolving electrical component merges properties of memory and resistors. By
taking advantage of nanoscale properties, these devices use magnetism as well
as electrical currents to store as well as process information, making them
much more analogous to a synapse.

With these sorts of advances in hand, Li is working to create “neuromorphic”
chips that attempt to model the incredibly large and complex parallel
processing power of the human brain. If the individual components can change
how they connect with each other in response to stimuli, then the computer
chip can actually learn from its experiences as an actual neural network does.

“We actually have some prototype chips that have demonstrated this capability
recently,” said Li, who works with colleagues in HP Labs, the Air Force Office
of Scientific Research and the Department of Defense on the project. “Of
course they can’t think like a human being yet because they are still very
small, but our technology demonstrated the intelligence and complex reasoning
needed to recognize the patterns of problems.”

Li will find a strong network of collaborators already in place when she
arrives at Duke. She mentions strengths in electronic systems, neuroscience,
biomolecular materials, machine learning, computer architecture and technology
transfer as reasons for her excitement for her move. And then there’s the
proven track record between Pratt and the Duke School of Medicine in
developing devices for clinical use.

“I get the impression that Duke is very ambitious and willing to take risks
with new ideas that could result in significant technological advances,” said
Li. “We expect to integrate the local strengths and programs so we’re able to
not only deliver the basic hardware itself, but entire environments. The
ultimate goal of our research is to create general systems for many diverse,
specific applications that users are eager and able to access without needing
specialized training.”

Li’s eye toward fast integration into actual devices at least partially comes
from her experience in industry. Before joining the faculty of the Polytechnic
Institute of New York University in 2009, Li held positions at Qualcomm, Intel
and Seagate.

“I really benefit from my industry experience so much,” said Li, who entered
the private job market after earning her PhD in electrical and computer
engineering from Purdue University. “I’m always thinking about what industry
wants and what is realistic to deliver. And on the other side, I’m always
learning about what direction their research is going so that I can tailor my
pursuits to their future goals.”

One example slightly outside of the realm of brain-inspired computing is Li’s
work on emerging memory. Her research into low-power static random-access
memory has been used in Intel processors. She also led a circuit design team
on spintronic memory and resistive memory.

“I also introduce a lot of my students to potential exchanges and experiences
in industry,” said Li. “I always bring students into meetings with industry
companies to talk about their research. Not only do students get to learn
about what industry is working on, they learn how companies operate, what
people really think and how to keep a project moving. This helps them be more
prepared for industry jobs when they graduate.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

