

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Handheld Probe Images Photoreceptors in Children

August 23, 2018

Portable probe developed by Duke biomedical engineers makes it possible to
capture images of photoreceptors in the eyes of young children.

Duke University researchers have developed a handheld probe that can image
individual photoreceptors in the eyes of infants.

The technology, based on adaptive optics, will make it easier for physicians
and scientists to observe these cells to diagnosis eye diseases and make early
detection of brain-related diseases and trauma.

Photoreceptors are specialized neurons that comprise the light-sensing cells
of the retina, an extension of the central nervous system located at the back
of the eye. The retina sends signals to the brain via the optic nerve, which
then processes the visual information. Previous studies have shown that
neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s, as well as
traumatic brain injuries, such as concussions, can alter the neuronal
structures in the retina.

To study these neuronal structures, researchers commonly use an adaptive
optics scanning laser ophthalmoscope (AOSLO), a non-invasive tool that
provides a significantly higher image resolution than an MRI.

Although traditional AOSLO allows researchers to visualize individual
photoreceptor cells, such systems are as large as a billiard table, costly and
extremely complex. Its use has been limited to patients who are able to sit
upright fix their gaze for several minutes, which means it is not as useful
for young children or for adults with cognitive or mobility issues.

The new system, called HAOSLO for handheld AOSLO, measures just 4 inches by 2
inches by 5.5 inches, and weighs less than half a pound.

The Duke researchers transformed the AOSLO into a handheld probe by improving
its optical, signal processing and mechanical designs. This included
development of a new algorithm that replaces the traditional AOSLO’s large
wavefront sensing system, an optical component that can detect light
distortion caused by the eye.

The study appears August 23 in the journal Optica.

“Other researchers have shown that the wavefront sensor can be replaced by an
algorithm, but previous algorithms haven’t been fast or robust enough to be
used in a handheld device,” said Theodore DuBose, a PhD student in the
department of biomedical engineering at Duke and the first author of the
paper. “The algorithm we developed is much faster than previous techniques and
just as accurate.”

The tool was tested in a clinical trial with 12 adults and two children, where
the team demonstrated its ability to capture detailed images of photoreceptors
close to the fovea––the center of the retina where photoreceptors are smallest
and vision is most acute.

“Our new tool is fast and lightweight so physicians can take it directly to
their patients, and the probe allows us to collect images quickly, even if
there is movement,” said Sina Farsiu, an associate professor in the
departments of biomedical engineering and ophthalmology. “These capabilities
allow us to open up the pool of patients who could benefit from this
technology.”

The tool’s new design makes it especially useful for imaging the eyes of young
children. For example, premature newborns have a greater risk of developing
eye diseases, like retinopathy, which can lead to blindness if not diagnosed
quickly. Researchers can also use the tool to track early brain development in
children by imaging their retina, which develops along with the central
nervous system.

The team is optimistic about the tool’s use both inside and outside of the
hospital. Because the HAOSLO can be taken into an operating room, physicians
will be able to see the photoreceptors at the highest resolution possible
during surgery, even when a patient is under anesthesia and in a reclined
position. It could also help doctors rapidly assess possible brain trauma in
athletes, such as football players coming off the field with head injuries.

Before the researchers prepare for large-scale clinical trials, they plan to
incorporate additional imaging modes for detecting other diseases.

They also have made the mechanical designs, computational algorithms and
control software freely available online so that other scientists can adapt
the new system for their scientific applications.
(http://people.duke.edu/~sf59/HAOSLO.htm).

This study was supported by the National Institutes of Health (NIH R21EY02708
and NIH P30EY005722), and a 2018 Unrestricted Grant from Research to Prevent
Blindness.

In addition to Farsiu, Duke faculty on the team included Joseph Izatt, the
Michael J. Fitzpatrick Professor of Engineering, and Cynthia Toth, the Joseph
A.C. Wadsworth Professor of Ophthalmology at the Duke University School of
Medicine.

CITATION: “Handheld Adaptive Optics Scanning Laser Ophthalmoscope,” T. DuBose,
D. Nankivil, F. LaRocca, G. Waterman, K. Hagan, J. Polans, B. Keller, D.
Travn-Viet, L. Vajzovic, A.N. Kuo, C. A. Toth, J. A. Izatt, S. Farsiu. Optica
5, 1027-1036 (2018). DOI: 10.1364/OPTICA.5.001027

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

