

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Harnessing Light to Measure Brain Function

September 3, 2021

A portable optical tool promises to make surgical planning easier and less
invasive for children who need surgery for epilepsy

The original version of this story appeared on the Giving to Duke Health site.

Roarke Horstmeyer, PhD, assistant professor of biomedical engineering at Duke
University, is one of 12 investigators representing 10 institutions selected
to receive a 2020 Hartwell Individual Biomedical Research Award. His proposed
research aims to further develop the new device.

One centimeter doesn’t seem very deep. But when you’re talking about shining
light into the brain, it might as well be 20 leagues under the sea, Horstmeyer
explains. Brain tissue scatters the light, obscuring the view.

“You can imagine putting a flashlight up to your hand then looking across the
room,” he says. “The light is dim, you can’t crank up the light too much
because otherwise it would damage the tissue.”

Horstmeyer has invented processes that enable him to control light deeper in
brain tissue (a centimeter or two beneath the skull), and has turned this
technology into a new, non-invasive device for mapping crucial areas of the
brain.

The ultimate goal is to accurately map brain function with a test that is as
simple and non-invasive as shining a light on the surface of the head.

Success could help improve outcomes for children with refractory epilepsy.
Epilepsy affects about 470,000 children in the United States, and about one
third of those don’t respond to medication and need surgery to provide relief
from seizures.

Success of surgery depends on precise mapping of brain areas that control
vital functions such as speech and movement. Currently, non-invasive mapping
is performed through Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), which
requires lying relatively still in a noisy machine for anywhere from 10 to 45
minutes while performing tasks such as filling in sentences or tapping fingers
together.

But anyone who has young children (including Horstmeyer, who has 18-month old
and 3-week old daughters at home) knows that it’s hard for them to sit still
for very long.

If Horstmeyer’s portable, non-invasive device is just as accurate at measuring
brain function as fMRI, it could enable children with epilepsy to undergo
accurate surgical planning and have surgery at a much younger age, which would
likely lead to better outcomes, he says.

The device uses a very sensitive optical sensor called a single photon
avalanche diode array. One of these sensors answers a basic question in minute
detail—has a photon of light arrived at one single point, or not?

Measuring single photons at one tiny point of light doesn’t tell you much, but
measuring at thousands of points can, Horstmeyer says. These sensors have been
around for a while, but only recently have manufacturers been making them in
large arrays. “You can have thousands or millions of these detectors all in a
little tiny chip,” he says. This array technology will soon be used in next-
generation smartphones and tablets, and they are already being used in self-
driving cars.

Horstmeyer’s innovation is putting such a chip into a small probe, configuring
the sensors, and writing algorithms to process the data so that he can create
images and eventually video showing how small changes in blood flow scatter
light.

Horstmeyer’s team has tested the device in adults in the lab, and the results
were promising. Now he will test it for the first time with children in the
clinic, thanks to The Hartwell Foundation grant of $300,000 over three years.

The probe itself is as small as a flashlight, but it is connected to two boxes
with fiber optic cables for sending and receiving signals and will be wheeled
to the clinic on a cart, much like portable ultrasound machines.

Horstmeyer’s team will conduct tests of brain function with 16 children who
are having pre-surgical evaluation for refractory epilepsy, using the new
device as well as fMRI, to then compare with the resulting measurements.

The tests to validate the accuracy of his new device as well as refine the
portable setup for real-world clinical conditions wouldn’t be possible without
the Hartwell Grant, Horstmeyer says.

Collaborators Muhammad Zafar, MD, MBBS, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, and
Melanie Bonner, PhD, Child Clinical Psychologist and Professor in Psychiatry
and Behavioral Sciences, will play a crucial role in providing their clinical
expertise for the tests.

For each of the last 15 years, The Hartwell Foundation has provided financial
support of innovative, early-stage biomedical research with the potential to
benefit children of the United States.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

