

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Leading the NFL’s Charge to Improve Player Safety

November 10, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

As part of the $60 million Engineering Roadmap funded and created by the
National Football League (NFL) and Football Research, Inc. (FRI), Duke
biomechanics experts will direct an international program to spur advancements
in protective equipment and technology

The National Football League (NFL) and Football Research, Inc. (FRI) have
tapped Duke researchers to spur advanced solutions in new and improved helmets
and protective equipment to improve player safety.

The program, entitled the HeadHealthTECH Challenges, will fund multiple awards
of up to $1 million a year, including in-kind support, to stimulate innovation
in the field of protective equipment. More than $750,000 of that award will go
to Duke ’s Clinical and Translational Science Institute (CTSI) to review
proposals from researchers worldwide.

The research on the biomechanics of concussion is still in its infancy and
cellular mechanisms tying exposure to impact are not obvious. Even today,
researchers are still learning about the setting in which concussions occur in
a game. Applied problems also exist, such as defining the range of exposures
helmets must protect to provide optimal head protection from both large,
infrequent impacts and more modest but frequent ones.

The project will also address the lack of a well-defined engineering
relationship between how a helmet performs and the properties of the pads
which produce that performance. A mathematical relationship between head
impact force and the stress-strain properties of the helmet liner could give
rise to rational design strategies.

“Duke’s capability and experience with the Players Association and the league
make it an ideal partner,” said Barry Myers, professor of biomedical
engineering and director of innovation at Duke CTSI, an institute in the Duke
University School of Medicine, who will spearhead the effort. “The combination
of Duke Engineering’s leadership in head and neck injury research and Duke
CTSI’s track record for using project management to translate research into
clinical applications gives the perfect confluence of abilities to lead this
initiative.”

An internationally recognized expert in impact biomechanics, Myers has studied
head and neck injuries and injury prevention at Duke for more than 25 years.
In 2009, he was recruited by the NFL to analyze helmet data in a multi-year
effort that led to new standards and rank assessments for helmets. Since then,
Myers has served as a consultant for the NFL Players Association.

Now, as part of its _Play Smart. Play Safe._ initiative announced in September
2016, the NFL has pledged $60 million toward the creation and funding of a
five-year plan called the “Engineering Roadmap” that will be managed by FRI, a
nonprofit corporation formed and financially supported by the NFL.

As part of the Engineering Roadmap, the NFL and FRI created the HeadHealthTECH
Challenges, a series of innovation challenges intended to spur advanced
solutions in the areas of head protection, material science and approaches to
improved understanding of head kinematics, among others. The TECH Challenges
are structured to help stimulate research and innovation, mentorship and
connections to venture capital investments in an effort to enable new
developments in engineering, biomechanics, advanced sensors and material
science. The TECH Challenges will be operated and managed by Duke University’s
Clinical and Translational Science Institute (CTSI).

With the need to select the best ideas and work to mature their proposals to
commercialization, Duke’s proven leadership in translational research makes it
a good fit to lead the initiative, said Myers, who is also the program
director of the Duke-Coulter Translational Partnership Grant Program. Since
2006, the program has awarded $8 million to support 39 pilot projects between
Duke clinicians and biomedical engineers, leading to $486 million in follow-on
funding, 13 licenses to industry and the founding of eight new startup
companies.

“Our success with the Coulter Program was the hook and sinker,” said Myers.
“With strong partnerships between our schools of medicine and engineering,
Duke has been recognized as one of the most successful members of this
nationwide program and as a leader in enabling translational research.”

“We’re going to connect the experts doing groundbreaking research on injury
biomechanics and prevention with the innovators who are eager to create next
generation solutions,” said Jeff Miller, NFL executive vice president of
health and safety initiatives. “Previous Head Health Challenges have catalyzed
the development of many new products; our work going forward will bring a
direct focus on the injury biomechanics of football and create incentives for
the wisdom of the marketplace to design and manufacture improved equipment.”

TECH Challenge I, which is open from November 10 through December 15, invites
proposals focused on helmet technologies and surfaces that helmets contact,
including turf, grass, other helmets and opponent padding. Support for the
most promising opportunities will be provided by FRI. The TECH Challenges are
renewable annually for up to the next five years.

“When you look at a mature industry like pharmaceuticals, you see a lot of
smart people working together in venture capital groups, startups,
universities, research organizations and private companies to get the best
ideas to market,” said Myers. “Our goal with this new program is to expand,
grow and mature the athletic protective equipment industry into these types of
spaces to create a more well-worn path for ideas to get to the market.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

