

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Helping Siri Hear Through a Cocktail Party

August 13, 2015 | By Ken Kingery

A new sensor developed at Duke University helps computers separate overlapping
sounds.

People trying to talk to Siri may soon no longer have to look like they’re
about to eat their iPhones, thanks to a new technology demonstration that
solves the “Cocktail Party” conundrum.

In a crowded room with voices coming from every direction, the human auditory
system is incredibly good at homing in on a single voice while filtering out
the background jabber.

Computers are not.

A new approach from engineers at Duke University, however, may soon improve
their performance in loud environments. The sensor uses metamaterials—the
combination of natural materials in repeating patterns to achieve unnatural
properties—and compressive sensing to determine the direction of a sound and
extract it from the surrounding background noise.

Once miniaturized, the device could have applications in voice-command
electronics, medical sensing devices that use waves, like ultrasound, and
hearing aids and cochlear implants.

The study was featured in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences
on August 11, 2015.

“We’ve invented a sensing system that can efficiently, reliably and
inexpensively solve an interesting problem that modern technology has to deal
with on a daily basis,” said Abel Xie, a PhD student in electrical and
computer engineering at Duke and lead author of the paper. “We think this
could improve the performance of voice-activated devices like smart phones and
game consoles while also reducing the complexity of the system.”

The proof-of-concept device looks a bit like a thick, plastic, pie-shaped
honeycomb split into dozens of slices. While the honeycomb openings may all
look the same, their depth varies from hole to hole. This gives each slice of
the honeycomb pie a unique pattern.

“The cavities behave like soda bottles when you blow across their tops,” said
Steve Cummer, professor of electrical and computer engineering at Duke. “The
amount of soda left in the bottle, or the depth of the cavities in our case,
affects the pitch of the sound they make, and this changes the incoming sound
in a subtle but detectable way.”

When a sound wave gets to the device, it gets slightly distorted by the
cavities. And that distortion has a specific signature depending what slice of
the pie it passed over. After being picked up by a microphone on the other
side, the sound is transmitted to a computer that is able to separate the
jumble of noises based on these unique distortions.

The researchers tested their invention in multiple trials by simultaneously
sending three identical sounds at the sensor from three different directions.
It was able to distinguish between them with a 96.7 percent accuracy rate.

While the prototype is six inches wide, the researchers believe it could be
scaled down and incorporated into the devices we use on a regular basis. And
because the sensor is made of plastic and does not have any electric or moving
parts, it is extremely efficient and reliable.

“This concept may also have applications outside the world of consumer
electronics,” said Xie. “I think it could be combined with any medical imaging
device that uses waves, such as ultrasound, to not only improve current
sensing methods, but to create entirely new ones.

“With the extra information, it should also be possible to improve the sound
fidelity and increase functionalities for applications like hearing aids and
cochlear implants. One obvious challenge is to make the system physically
small. It is challenging, but not impossible, and we are working toward that
goal.”

This work was supported by a Multidisciplinary University Research Initiative
under Grant N00014-13-1-0631 from the Office of Naval Research.

###

“Single-sensor “cocktail party listening” withacoustic metamaterials.” Yangbo
Xie, Tsung-Han Tsai, Adam Konneker, Bogdan-Ioan Popa, David J. Brady, and
Steven A. Cummer. PNAS, 2015. DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1502276112

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

