

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Henry Petroski's New Book Explores Home's History and Design

May 5, 2014

“The House with Sixteen Handmade Doors: A Tale of Architectural Choice and
Craftsmanship,” was published on May 5, 2014

_Petroski is the Aleksandar S. Vesic Professor of Civil Engineering at Duke
University, where he has taught for more than three decades. He was elected a
member of the National Academy of Engineering in 1997 “for books, articles,
and lectures on engineering and the profession that have reached and
influenced a wide range of audiences.” He is the author of nearly 20 popular
and critically acclaimed books that have earned him the reputation as
“America’s poet laureate of technology,” and also writes regular columns for
ASEE Prism magazine and American Scientist._

**Most engineers aren’t exactly thrilled by the prospect of writing, so how
did you start?**

I started writing when I was in college. I don’t know if I’d call it a hobby,
it was more like an avocation. My serious involvement began when I had to
write for a literature course, and one of my teachers encouraged me to submit
an assignment to the literary magazine. That got my attention.

**What did you write at first? Anything to interrupt the technical papers
required of an engineering student?**

I was writing mostly formal poetry and short essays, mainly because I had only
limited time. It became a way to relax at night after a long day of classes
and research work in graduate school. I wrote a lot of sonnets, for example,
enjoying the puzzle-like nature of expressing ideas in fourteen lines and
fitting the development of those ideas into prescribed patterns of meter and
rhyme. I don’t know if I realized this at the time, but having to write such
structured pieces was very beneficial. It forced me to consider carefully each
and every word choice and helped me learn how to organize long articles and
eventually books.

**When did you start publishing your works?**

Years after graduate school, I was working at Argonne National Laboratory, and
during lunchtime I’d go to the library and read a lot about science and
technology policy in newspapers and magazines like MIT’s _Technology Review_.
I started publishing short 600- to 700-word pieces there as well as op-eds in
the _New York Times_. Not only were the editors encouraging by publishing my
work, but also they were very helpful in the honing of my writing skills. I
enjoyed the give-and-take with an editor, getting down to the level of having
to defend a word or organizational choice. And increasingly I was asked to
write longer and longer pieces.

**Did the longer pieces eventually lead to your first book?**

My job at Argonne didn’t really give me a lot of time to pursue a book, which
is something I wanted to do, so I started looking for a position at a
university because I believed that writing is more or less an expectation of
what you do at a university. I came to Duke because the people who interviewed
me were actually interested in my non-technical publications. They saw them as
a plus and not a dilution of my technical work.

**Tell me about how you came up with the topic for your first book, “To
Engineer Is Human.”**

I was in my late 30s at the time. I had three degrees in engineering, I’d been
teaching engineering, I was a registered professional engineer, I had worked
as an engineer, and yet if a neighbor came up to me and asked me what
engineering actually was, I was tongue-tied. I didn’t have a simple, easily
grasped answer. And I don’t think that was just my feeling, I could tell by
the reaction of the neighbors who asked these questions that my answers
weren’t jargon-free enough to be understandable by an average layperson. So my
first book sought to answer in straightforward language this fundamental
question, “What is engineering?”

In the course of writing that book, whose title became _To Engineer is Human_
, the answer began to come clear. Fundamentally, engineering is all about
design. Other academic subjects that engineering students take are really in
service to design. If you want to design an airplane, you use structural
mechanics and aerodynamics, but it’s really because you want to design the
plane. That’s the first big idea in the book. The other main concept is that
failure is central to design, because when you design something you don’t want
it to fail. So the book basically is an elaboration on those two ideas.
Engineering is design and design is about avoiding failure.

**But that book didn’t make quite the splash that two subsequent books did,
correct?**

That’s right. A lot of people actually think my book on the history of the
humble wood-cased pencil was my first. I wanted to write a book about how
engineering is part of the larger human experience, how engineering isn’t just
something that is off on its own, how it is fully integrated into civilization
and culture. Those were the ideas behind _The Pencil._

_To Engineer Is Human_ focuses on large things like bridges and buildings, and
while I was writing it I was thinking that everything I’m saying about design
and failure really works for small things too—the most common things you could
think of like paper clips and zippers. If in fact my ideas are valid—that
understanding failure is central to advancing and achieving successful
design—then I should be able to defend that thesis in a book concentrated on
small things.

That was the book I wrote after _The Pencil._ It is called _The Evolution of
Useful Things_. It’s also at its core about failure. It’s a refutation of the
saying that “form follows function.” I argue that “form follows failure.” When
things don’t work, they fail, and inventors and engineers look for ways to
improve them.

**What are some of the other memorable books that you’ve written?**

I wrote a book on the history of American bridge building because there was a
lot written about British bridges but comparatively little on American ones. I
wrote another book called _The Essential Engineer,_ which explains how
engineering differs from science and also elaborates on what they share in
common. That book is an appeal to recognize that the engineer is essential to
solving real-world problems.

There is a book I published recently that sort of brings my intermediate books
around full-circle, back to the first. An Alexander Pope couplet contains the
line, “To err is human, to forgive divine.” While my first book is titled _To
Engineer Is Human_ , my seventeenth is called _To Forgive Design_. Its
subtitle is _Understanding Failure_ , so I come back to the failure theme very
explicitly and for very large structures like bridges and buildings.

Even if my books focus on different topics—like bridges or pencils or
toothpicks—their general objective is to elucidate the nature of invention and
engineering and to demonstrate how failure is an integral part of the process
and not necessarily something that should be excused and forgotten. At the
same time, each of the books shines the spotlight on a different aspect of
engineering.

**Tell me a little bit about your newest book.**

It’s about a house on an island in Maine that my wife and I bought some years
ago as a working retreat. It’s a very unusual structure, but people in the
neighborhood think they know the story of the house: that it was built by a
man as a form of therapy following a nervous breakdown. I guess that could be
true, but certain features of the house itself made me question that story, so
I started looking very closely at the building’s unique design and the nature
of its construction. In the book, I treat the origin of the house as a mystery
to be solved. I assume that clues reside in the fabric of the house, and it is
my aim to find and interpret those clues.

**What about the house made you think the neighbors’ story might be wrong?**

The workmanship in the house is so good. I’m talking about how boards were
sawn to meet in tight, neat joints; how paneling was nailed together; how
windows were framed; how doors were made. The details are all just so good
that the guy who did it couldn’t possibly have been that mentally afflicted. I
wanted to reconcile this with the fact that even now, sixty years after the
fact, neighbors don’t seem to think much of him or the house.

The house is quirky because he designed it and built it himself. I tried to
look at it as a designed object and wished to tease out of it as much as I
could about how it was built and why certain decisions were made. He obviously
made some changes in his design as he went along. Before beginning
construction, he had built a little wooden model, and you can see in a
photograph of this model that the house didn’t end up like the model. This was
another opportunity for me to talk about engineering, to emphasize that
designs aren’t written in stone when they’re first laid out, that they evolve
and they evolve for reasons.

There’s material in the book about the area where the house is located and
background about alterations that were made on the house before we came to own
it, but trying to figure out the engineering and design decisions that went
into the house is the crux of the book.

**Having so many books under your belt now and countless columns and articles
published in newspapers and magazines, do you prefer one form over another?**

That’s sort of like asking a parent which child is the favorite. I enjoy
writing columns because it gives me a way to think about new things and it’s
also a challenge to convey and analyze the implications of an idea in as few
as 600 words. It’s a design challenge.

But I’d have to say I enjoy the books a little bit more. I’ve been doing the
columns for so long that, while I won’t say they’ve become easy, the books are
more challenging. It’s a lot easier to remember what you wrote in the first
paragraph of a column than it is to remember after 50,000 words of writing
what you said in the first chapter.

**Coming to writing as an engineer, do you see a big difference between
writing books or columns and writing technical papers?**

I’d say that writing is writing. I came to this conclusion pretty early on
when I was writing highly technical papers. There are certain formats you have
to follow, especially with the technical paper, but to me that’s not writing,
that’s organization. The writing is how you put words together to make
sentences, how you put sentences together to form paragraphs. To me, that’s
the real writing and I don’t see much difference between how an engineer
writes a technical paper and how a non-fiction writer puts together an essay
or a book.

**So what’s next?**

I don’t usually talk about what I’m doing next, but I’m typically working on
my next book while I’m waiting for proofs of the last one. It’s a long
process. It can take a year and a half at least. In the meantime, I’m always
working on new columns, invited articles and essays and op-eds, which are
often testing grounds for future book ideas.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

