

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Henry Pfister: Inferring Answers through Graphical Models

September 16, 2014 | By Ken Kingery

Constructing graphical models and inferring how variables relate to one
another can help researchers analyze large and small data sets—and test
devices before they’re even built

Henry Pfister recently joined both the electrical and computer engineering
department in Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering as well as the
interdisciplinary Information Initiative at Duke (iiD). An expert in
extracting information from both mountains and molehills of data, he will
tackle informatics challenges in realms such as personalized health care,
compressed sensing and wireless communications.

In today’s digitized world, many companies and research enterprises are
compiling statistics at an exponential rate. In some fields, however, the
sample size is too small to find trends and patterns in the data. In either
case, it is Pfister’s job to create graphical models and algorithms to infer
answers to the questions being asked of the data.

“Our goal is to abstract away all the details of the problem,” said Pfister,
who joins the Duke community from Texas A&M University. “If you can understand
the kernel of the fundamental problem, then the implications can help you
answer many questions based on that kernel.”

Suppose, for example, doctors want to know whether or not a trial drug helps
people live longer. A large clinical study will easily provide the general
answer to that question, but what if you want to drill down to smaller
categories? Looking at a subset of people with specific genetic profiles might
yield a tiny sample size.

To get around this problem, Pfister builds graphical models to explore how
certain variables correlate to one another. By finding overlaps and inferring
their effects on each other, researchers can develop better algorithms to
analyze smaller sample sizes and increase their confidence in the answers.

Graphical models are also used to build error-correcting codes for data
storage applications. Building a hard drive controller microchip is expensive,
and developers can’t test it until it’s built. Nor can they test it virtually,
as it would take today’s fastest computers years of simulation to observe a
single read error. But by understanding error-correcting codes based on
graphical models, theorists can accurately approximate the system’s error rate
and ensure that it is too low to notice during regular use.

Pfister’s work can be a boon to many research projects, and Duke’s engineering
school is teeming with prospective collaborators.

“I believe that many problems being studied today are very similar across
disciplines. Some people want to build a better cell phone while others want
to design a better experiment, but the math problems they end up solving
become very similar,” said Pfister. “Multidisciplinary centers, like the iiD,
where people can find these common elements and work on them together, are
very valuable. A big reason I came to Duke is the opportunity to work with a
lot of exceptional researchers on these sorts of problems.

“And also the spring is beautiful in North Carolina.”

Meet our new 2014-2015 faculty members

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

