

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Home-Grown Artists Reveal Works for CEE Department Walls

November 17, 2016

A vernissage was held to unveil two permanent pieces of art that will adorn
the CEE department’s office walls created by professors Tomasz Hueckel and
Amilcare Porporato.

Students, faculty and staff from Duke’s Department of Civil and Environmental
Engineering gathered recently to celebrate the artistic underpinnings of
engineering. A vernissage was held on the evening of Tuesday, November 15,
2016, to unveil two permanent pieces of art that will adorn the CEE
department’s office walls and celebrate the work of their creators, CEE
professors Tomasz Hueckel and Amilcare Porporato.

“The underlying motivation for the event was to underscore the importance of
art, the creative process, and aesthetics in the work of engineers,” said
Wiesner. “Duke is a special place where we educate engineers to be more than
technicians. Stressing the connection of the arts to our technical missions is
becoming a growing tradition in Pratt that has been promoted by many of our
faculty and students.”

Wiesner turned to Hueckel, who he knew regularly produced colorful pieces of
cut sheet metal in his spare time. Hueckel, in turn, informed Wiesner that
another professor, Porporato, was also an artist. The event was held to unveil
their art in a small event featuring a department jam session for musical
entertainment. Work from both artists will be on display in the CEE reception
area.

Hueckel’s art features scenes cut from sheet metal and spray-painted with a
rainbow of colors, most of which depict wildlife. It’s a labor-intensive
process of using handheld cutters for the broad strokes and what amounts to a
screwdriver and hammer for the interior spaces. The bigger pieces, such as the
one now hanging in the CEE department, take up to three months.

“If I cut for more than an hour a day, my fingers would fall off,” remarked
Hueckel, who displayed a couple dozen of his works during the event and began
his craft in 2009. He added with a chuckle, “One day I will have enough for an
exhibit and will sell each for $100,000.”

Porporato’s paintings come from a collaboration between him and his brother
Luigi, who has long been the artist in the family. Within the past three or
four years, the duo began working on paintings together whenever one would
visit the other, quickly producing several works at a time.

In this showing, Porporato’s work depicts scenes that represent various pieces
of the water cycle—a topic in line with Porporato’s research on hydrology.

“Here my brother and I try to show the laws of physics within our art,” said
Porporato. “We really enjoy spending the time together and like to work fast,
which is great because it stops us from getting into too many arguments about
colors and shapes of what we are painting.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

