

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Hot FinTech Summer

August 25, 2021

Despite the challenges posed by a global pandemic, all of Duke’s FinTech
students found fantastic summer internships

With the pandemic pushing most summer internships into online positions,
competition for coveted landing spots was higher than ever this year. While
true for any industry, it was an especially challenging time for students
looking for internships in the quickly rising field of financial technology
(FinTech). Since Duke’s FinTech master's program requires an internship, it is
understandable that students stress about securing a top-notch position.

But as it turns out, they needn’t have worried.

“Not only did all of our students find internships in this challenging year,
but they all also found awesome ones,” said Jimmie Lenz, an executive-in-
residence at Duke Engineering and the director of the Duke Financial
Technology Master of Engineering program. “There was about twice the demand as
there were available students. It just shows that the best companies out there
are really eager to work with our students.”

From money management to FinTech, the internships spanned various sectors of
finance. And from one of the largest insurance agencies in China (Ping An)—and
thus, the world—to the investment office that handles Duke’s $23 billion
portfolio (DUMAC, Inc.), they also spanned the globe.

Learn more about the FinTech summer internship experience below from three of
the students themselves:

* * *

## Diana Li

__

**From** : Hunan, China  
**Undergrad** : The Ohio State University  
**Major** : Finance

Why did you choose to enroll in Duke’s FinTech program?

I choose to enroll in Duke’s FinTech program is because FinTech is a growing
industry that I am really interested in, and I want to gain technical skills
and hands-on experience in FinTech. Duke Engineering provides a hard-core
curriculum that could pave the way for my future career.

Where did you conduct your internship this summer?

This summer, I had an internship in Ping An Technology, a sub-company of Ping
An Group. Ping An, a technology-powered Personal Financial Services Group, is
rising on Fortune’s List and is currently 29th. Ping An Technology is
committed to leveraging AI, the cloud and other cutting-edge technologies to
enable five ecosystems of finance, healthcare, automobiles, real estate and
smart cities. There are about 6,000 IT professionals and management experts in
this sub-company.

What project(s) have you been working on during your internship?

I interned as a product manager in the big data machine learning department.
The project that I have been working on is a telemarketing system. We are
building a middle platform to collect and monitor the data for over 10 sub-
companies under Ping An Group and leverage AI to generate phone calls or text
messages for potential customers.

What are some of the most important things you’ve learned or taken away from
the internship experience?

The most important thing that I have learned from my internship is that
communication is crucial, especially working for a such big project that has
10 companies involved. Within my department, not only do we have colleagues
who are experts in coding, machine learning, and other IT technologies, we
also have coworkers from the business side who may not have a deep
understanding of their terminologies. Since I’m sort of the middle person
between them, one of my jobs is to connect with them and help them better
express and understand the needs of each other. In this case, effective
communication enhances the efficiency within the team. It makes sure everyone
on the team is on the same page, which saves a lot of time to not have to
explain things to different people over and over again.

What are some of the most important things you’ve learned or taken away from
the internship experience?

During this internship, I gained hands-on experience on how algorithms sharpen
the finance industry. And I gained a clearer understanding of the position of
product manager, its obligation and the daily routine.

How has the internship experience affected your plans for after graduation?

The experience has confirmed to me that this is a job that I am really
passionate about.

* * *

## Noah Flaniken

__**From** : Indianapolis  
**Undergrad** : Miami University of Ohio  
**Major** : Mechanical Engineering, with minors in Actuarial Science and
French

Why did you choose to enroll in Duke’s FinTech program?

When I graduated, I went to work for JPMorgan Chase as an infrastructure
engineer in the mainframe space and I worked there for four years. Just over a
year ago, I started at Duke in the Master's of Engineering in FinTech program.
I decided to enroll in the program because I enjoyed technology and wanted to
stay in that area, but I also wanted to learn more about the business side of
the financial services industry.

Where did you conduct your internship this summer?

This summer I interned with a company called Apiture. They are about three
years old and started as a joint venture between Live Oak Bank and a company
called First Data, where Apiture's first product originated from.

What project(s) have you been working on during your internship?

Apiture has two sides to its business, but the side I worked on is called its
Xpress platform. The Xpress platform builds online and mobile banking
solutions for small- to medium-size financial institutions. Apiture wanted to
leverage the data that their bank clients have to deliver actionable insights
that the banks could use to grow their business. As a new service, I was
tasked with identifying the FI's needs, figuring out what insights we could
answer today and possibly in the future, and how we could deliver these
insights to the FI's.

What are some of the most important things you’ve learned or taken away from
the internship experience?

Throughout the internship, I learned a lot about developing a new product or
service, and I also gained an immense amount of knowledge about the banking
industry and the technology behind it all.

How has the internship experience affected your plans for after graduation?

I know that after the program I want to continue to strategize about how to
use technology and analytics to deliver added value to the finance sector.

* * *

## Olivia Shen

__**From** : Fuzhou, China  
**Undergrad** : Washington and Lee University  
**Major** : Economics with a minor in mathematics

Why did you choose to enroll in Duke’s FinTech program?

I chose Duke for my master’s degree in FinTech because of its worldwide
reputation as well as the strong alumni network.

Where did you conduct your internship this summer?

My internship was at DUMAC Inc., which is the investment office that manages a
$23 billion portfolio of investments on behalf of Duke University, Duke Health
System, Duke Employees Retirement Plan, and the Duke Endowment. DUMAC’s
investment performance consistently ranks near the top of its peer group
(Yale, Harvard, Stanford, etc.).

What project(s) have you been working on during your internship?

I participated in a bunch of virtual meetings and Zoom calls with world-
renowned investment managers. I also conducted a research project on Special
Purpose Acquisition Companies (SPACs), to analyze the impact and reasons
behind this growing phenomenon.

What are some of the most important things you’ve learned or taken away from
the internship experience?

I helped assist in the identification, evaluation, selection and monitoring of
investment opportunities. I also Interviewed investment managers, performed
due diligence and recommended new investments. It's interesting to learn from
best-of-class investment managers from all over the world. I also attended an
annual meeting and lots of investment conferences. I was able to perform
qualitative and quantitative analyses to evaluate and compare opportunities,
risks, and performance of the current portfolio.

How has the internship experience affected your plans for after graduation?

Upon graduating from Duke, I aspire to work in a world-leading asset
management firm doing investment management.

## Related News

December 14, 2020

### Industry Experts Enrich Duke FinTech’s First Year

April 08, 2020

### Online FinTech Master’s Program Pivots to Early Launch

March 01, 2020

### Forward with FinTech: Duke’s Newest Engineering Master’s Program

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

