

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# How Gut Inflammation Sparks Colon Cancer

February 4, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

Cancer stem cells hijack stem cell production in inflamed tissue

Chronic inflammation in the gut increases the risk of colon cancer by as much
as 500 percent, and now Duke University researchers think they know why.

Their new study points to a biomarker in the cellular machinery that could not
only serve as an early warning of colon cancer, but potentially be harnessed
to counteract advanced forms of the disease, the second-largest cause of
cancer death in the U.S.

In the study, published online on February 4 in the journal Cell Stem Cell,
Duke biomedical engineers show how colon cancer development is intricately
linked to a specific microRNA that dictates how cells divide.

“A quarter of the world’s population is affected by some type of gut
inflammation,” said lead author Xiling Shen, associate professor of biomedical
engineering at Duke University. “These patients always have a much higher
chance of developing colon cancer, but it was never clear why. Now we have
found a link.”

In the study, Shen’s group focused on a microRNA called miR-34a that gives
cancer stem cells the odd ability to divide asymmetrically. This process
controls the cancerous stem cell population and generates a diverse set of
cells.

While researchers knew that miR-34a was responsible for this ability, nobody
knew where it came from, because normal, healthy colon stem cells don’t
asymmetrically divide and don’t need this microRNA. They wondered if there was
a mutation unique to cancer stem cells, or a hidden role for the microRNA in
normal physiology.

To find out, Shen and his colleagues deleted miR-34a from the genetic code of
some mice. But nothing happened.

“It really puzzled the scientific community,” said Shen. “Usually if something
is important and you delete it, it causes a problem.”

In the latest study, however, the problem showed up when the mice’s tissues
became inflamed. Without any microRNA miR-34a, their stem cells quickly grew
out of control and formed many tumor-like structures.

Based on the study, Shen’s group concluded that even though miR-34a is active
in cancer, it’s actually a good guy. Triggered to act when the gut becomes
inflamed, miR-34a forces the process of asymmetrical division, helping to
control normal stem cell populations.

Even in the early stages of tumor growth, the microRNA remains active to keep
the cancer stem cell population down. As the cancer progresses however, its
cells develop mutations that enable shutting off miR-34a, causing cells to
divide into flexible hybrids that can revert back into stem cells if needed.
It’s this flexibility that makes late-stage cancers so difficult to eradicate.

“Typically when you look at tumors and see something that isn’t in normal
tissue, you think it’s a bad thing,” said Shen. “But it turns out that, under
normal circumstances, these microRNAs are the good guys who only show up when
things go wrong. And when you silence them in late-stage cancer, it’s like the
supervillain carried off the superhero and the cancer becomes much worse.”

But Shen is hoping that understanding the role of miR-34a might lead to this
supervillain’s vulnerability.

With a test to look for elevated levels of miR-34a, researchers could create
an early warning system to catch cancers in their youthful stages when they
are much easier to cure. And as a possible treatment for late-stage cancer,
researchers are trying to get the cancer cells to express miR-34a again. This
would stop the tumor cells from gaining the flexibility to revert back to stem
cells and allow doctors to wipe them out once and for all.

Clinical trials are currently trying to do just this in multiple cancer types,
but this is the first study that has shown that it might also work for colon
cancer. The discovery will also help researchers design clinical trials and
pick the patients who have the best chance to respond to the therapy.

This research was supported by the National Institutes of Health (R01GM95990,
R01GM114254), the National Science Foundation (1350659, 1137269), New York
State Stem Cell Science (C029543) and the Defense Advanced Research Projects
Agency (19-1091726).

###

“A miR-34a-Numb feed-forward loop triggered by inflammation regulates
asymmetric stem cell division in intestine and colon cancer.” Pengcheng Bu,
Lihua Wang, Kai-Yuan Chen, Tara Srinivasan, Preetish Kadur Lakshminarasimha
Murthy, Kuei-Ling Tung, Anastasia Kristine Varanko, Huanhuan Joyce Chen, Yiwei
Ai, Sarah King, Steven M. Lipkin, Xiling Shen. Cell Stem Cell, 2016. DOI:
10.1016/j.stem.2016.01.006

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

