

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Hsu-Kim Gives Plenary Lecture at 2017 ICMGP Conference

June 20, 2017 | By Michaela Kane

Heileen Hsu-Kim presented new mercury-related research at the 13th annual
International Conference on Mercury as a Global Pollutant.

Heileen (Helen) Hsu-Kim, the Mary Milus Yoh and Harold L. Yoh, Jr. Associate
Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, gave a plenary lecture at
the 13th annual International Conference on Mercury as a Global Pollutant
(ICMGP) in Providence, Rhode Island. During her presentation, Hsu-Kim
discussed the challenges in understanding how mercury cycles through aquatic
environments, and how local environmental management efforts can help limit
the impacts of mercury contamination in places like watersheds and lakes.

The biennial conference brings together a multitude of researchers who study
mercury’s role as a pollutant, including environmental scientists, engineers,
earth scientists, public health scientists, and public policy officials. For
the 2017 conference, Hsu-Kim and her international team of experts were one of
four groups to compose a scientific paper for the meeting, with all papers
aimed at addressing the various factors that can accelerate or reduce mercury
contamination on local and global scales. The findings from these papers are
intended to help inform the implementation of the Minamata Convention on
Mercury, the global treaty signed in 2013 to protect human and environmental
health from mercury contamination.

“With our paper, our goal was to describe the myriad of processes that control
the movement and toxicity of mercury in watersheds and other aquatic
ecosystems, and to determine what steps we could take at the local level to
manage polluted environments,” says Hsu-Kim. “Mercury is a contaminant that
can travel globally through the atmosphere, but we wanted to provide practical
knowledge and solutions to people who are in charge of managing risk and
policies as specific sites.”

During her lecture, Hsu-Kim discussed how workers at government environmental
agencies or engineers overseeing remediation at Superfund sites could use
practical solutions to manage mercury contamination in local aquatic
environments. For example, Hsu-Kim explained that only certain chemical forms
of mercury can build-up in organisms like fish, but regulations on mercury are
often based on all forms of the metal, so they aren’t as effective. Instead,
the research team recommended that site managers should monitor for the
bioavailable forms of mercury, so strategies to minimize risk could be based
on decreasing mercury bioavailability.

In addition to Hsu-Kim’s plenary lecture, Chris Eckley, her collaborator from
the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) led a panel discussion where the
team could the answer questions pertaining to their research.

To learn more about the International Conference on mercury as a Global
Pollutant, click through to their website at:
http://mercury2017.com/home/overview/

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

