

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Huang Receives 2019 IEEE Technical Achievement Award

May 23, 2019

Award recognizes outstanding achievement, contribution and innovation in a
technical area of biomedical engineering

Tony Jun Huang, the William Bevan Professor of Mechanical Engineering and
Mechanical Science, has been selected to receive the 2019 EMBS Technical
Achievement Award "for his pioneering work on developing acoustic tweezers,
which are capable of precisely manipulating bioparticles across a broad size
range in complex fluids, enabling many applications in biomedical research."

This award is given annually to an individual "to recognize an individual(s)
for outstanding achievement, contribution(s), and/or innovation in a technical
area of biomedical engineering" by the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and
Biology Society (EMBS), the world's largest international society of
biomedical engineers. It consists of a $1,500 honorarium and reimbursement of
up to $1,500 for travel, registration and accommodation expenses to attend the
awards presentation ceremony to be held during the opening ceremony of
EMBC'19.

A leader in the fields of microfluidics, acoustofluidics and lab-on-a-chip
technologies, Huang explores ways of using sound waves to precisely manipulate
and detect fluids and particles—such as cells, DNAs, RNAs and proteins—inside
fluids. His goal is to develop these technologies into new diagnoses and
treatments for various diseases. Some of his recent work includes developing
an acoustic microfluidic platform that can gently and quickly separate
circulating tumor cells from blood samples, a technique that uses soundwaves
and oil to avoid contamination for reusable lab-on-a-chip devices, and an
acoustic whirlpool device that effectively concentrates nanoparticles to
gather proteins and other biological structures from blood, urine or saliva
samples for future diagnostic devices.

Huang's other recent awards include the Analytical Chemistry 2017 Young
Innovator Award, the 2014 IEEE Sensors Council Technical Achievement Award,
the 2012 Outstanding Young Manufacturing Engineer Award from Society for
Manufacturing Engineering, the 2011 JALA Top Ten Breakthroughs of the Year
Award, and the 2010 National Institutes of Health Director's New Innovator
Award.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

