

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Hungry for Innovation: Notable Project Stems from MEDx Dinner

August 12, 2019

Students and clinicians collaborated to design a newly-patented tool that
makes it easier, and more comfortable, for physicians to use endoscopes

**_This story was written by Alexis Kessenich and originally published on
theDuke MEDx site. _**

On a chilly December evening in Durham guests arrived at The Restaurant at The
Durham Hotel with a hunger for food and innovation. Seated around a U-shaped
table, gastroenterology and engineering professionals brainstormed engineering
solutions to medical problems. What started as a small working dinner hosted
by MEDx quickly took on a life of its own.

With empty plates and full minds, guests left The Durham eager to put their
ideas to work. Attendees formed countless connections and projects that
originated at The Durham continue to flourish. One in particular, a Duke-
patented and licensed ergonomic improvement for endoscopes, embodies the
collaborations MEDx was created to foster.

The idea for the dinner began when Andrew Muir, M.D., chief of
gastroenterology, approached Geoff Ginsburg, M.D., Ph.D., director of MEDx,
for advice on how to develop collaborations between his department and the
Pratt School of Engineering. Ginsburg proposed that MEDx host a dinner for
faculty in each department. “One of my major goals has been to connect my
people with the amazing faculty and programs at Duke,” said Muir. “This
connecting is the spirit of MEDx.” Muir invited his faculty to submit ideas to
improve the medical field, and Donna Crenshaw, Ph.D., executive director of
MEDx, invited engineering faculty that had expertise in those areas.

A member of Muir’s team, gastroenterologist Darin Dufault, proposed improving
the device used during endoscopies. During an endoscopy, a tool called an
endoscope is used to examine a patient’s digestive tract. Articulating dials
located on the handle of the endoscope are used to control its position during
procedures. With these dials, the operator moves the tip of the endoscope up,
down, left or right with one hand. But this design imposes significant
physical stress on the operator, including pain, discomfort and stress-induced
injuries. The handles also impose ergonomic challenges as they are not
designed to adapt to varying hand sizes and grip strengths.

Dufault arrived to the MEDx dinner with an idea for a new device that would
address these limitations. Over dinner, he formed a connection with Mark
Palmeri, a professor of the practice of biomedical engineering, who felt he
could help bring Dufault’s idea to life. Palmeri then introduced Dufault to a
team of engineering graduate students to help.

“An ergonomics-based project appealed to me because we had never really done
that before.” said Palmeri, “Dufault brought in anecdotal experience in how
the ergonomics of their equipment is subpar, but since there’s nothing else
out there to use, you are at the mercy of it.” Dufault and the team of
students advised by Palmeri experimented with around 100 different iterations
over the course of several months before finally settling on a design.

The winning device, a tool that snaps on to the dials of an endoscope,
addresses the current limitations with customizable attachments and extensions
for the articulating dials that are compatible with standard endoscopes. “The
device has two purposes,” says Dufault. “First, it reduces the reach necessary
to manipulate the ‘little’ dial – the one that moves the scope from left to
right – making it easier for people with smaller hands and reducing strain on
the hand for all users. Secondly, it increased the radius of the ‘little’
dial, which further reduces the strain necessary to manipulate the ‘little’
dial.”

Duke patented the group's device, and the patent has been licensed by a
venture capital company, OBX Associates, which focuses on specialized mobile
devices. Plans are already underway to begin manufacturing and distribution in
the U.S. and abroad.

For Dufault and Palmeri, the collaboration won’t stop here. The pair already
has plans to meet and discuss new and innovative ideas.

“Through these types of collaborations, engineers are brought problems they
may otherwise not know about,” says Dufault, “and clinicians can contribute to
the solution in ways that would not be possible without engineers.”

Palmeri hopes that as Duke’s design classes keep growing, medical and
engineering professionals will come together regularly to figure out what’s
ripe for the picking to tackle in these classes. “By getting wins like this
one,” he says, “clinicians get even more excited about engaging with us. MEDx
serves as a really great icebreaker for us to do so.”

“The human connection of meeting face-to-face at dinners like this one is
important,” says Dufault. “No doubt in my mind it fosters collaboration and
interest in working together.”

Palmeri says he appreciates that the MEDx dinner brought together junior- and
senior-level people in each department to the same environment. “Young faculty
are typically not folks we get the opportunity to collaborate with on
projects, but this allowed us to see really neat or new ideas from the
enthusiastic, young clinical faculty.”

MEDx hopes to host more dinners like this in the future. “There is so much
latent potential at Duke for these types of collaborations to happen,” said
Ginsburg, “which is why MEDx can be so strategic at turning a small investment
on our end into potentially revolutionary designs – a small investment can
result in a huge impact.”

_Clickhere to learn more about other projects from Duke BME's two-semester
design program, led by Mark Palmeri. _

_If you are interested in having a collaborative event with members from your
department and the adjacent school, contactMEDx._

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

