

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Hurricanes Key to Carbon Uptake by Forests

May 2, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

Increases in carbon uptake by southeast U.S. forests in response to tropical
cyclone activity alone exceed carbon emissions by American vehicles each year

While hurricanes are a constant source of worry for residents of the
southeastern United States, new research suggests that they have a major
upside—counteracting global warming.

Previous research from Duke environmental engineer Ana Barros demonstrated
that the regular landfall of tropical cyclones is vital to the region’s water
supply and can help mitigate droughts.

Now, a new study from Barros reveals that the increase in forest
photosynthesis and growth made possible by tropical cyclones in the
southeastern United States captures hundreds of times more carbon than is
released by all vehicles in the U.S. in a given year.

The study was published online on April 20, 2016, in the Journal of
Geophysical Research - Biogeosciences.

“Our results show that, while hurricanes can cause flooding and destroy city
infrastructure, there are two sides to the story,” said Barros, the James L.
Meriam Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering at Duke University.
“The other side is that hurricanes recharge the aquifers and have an enormous
impact on photosynthesis and taking up carbon from the atmosphere.”

In the study, Lauren Lowman, a doctoral student in Barros’s laboratory, used a
hydrological computer model to simulate the ecological impacts of tropical
cyclones from 2004-2007. The earlier years of that time period had a high
number of tropical cyclone landfall events, while the latter years experienced
relatively few.

By comparing those disparate years to simulations of a year without tropical
cyclone events, Lowman was able to calculate the effect tropical cyclones have
on the rates of photosynthesis and carbon uptake in forests of the
southeastern United States.

“It’s easy to make general statements about how much of an impact something
like additional rainfall can have on the environment,” said Lowman. “But we
really wanted to quantify the amount of carbon uptake that you can relate to
tropical cyclones.”

According to Barros and Lowman, it is difficult to predict what effects
climate change will have on the region’s future. Even if the number of
tropical cyclones that form in the Atlantic increases, that doesn’t guarantee
that the number making landfall will also rise. And long-term forecasts for
the region’s temperature and rainfall currently show less change than normal
year-to-year variability.

But no matter what the future brings, one thing is clear—the regularity and
number of tropical cyclones making landfall will continue to be vital.

“There are a lot of regional effects competing with large worldwide changes
that make it very hard to predict what climate change will bring to the
southeastern United States,” said Barros. “If droughts do become worse and we
don’t have these regular tropical cyclones, the impact will be very negative.
And regardless of climate change, our results are yet one more very good
reason to protect these vast forests.”

This research was funded in part by the National Science Foundation Coupled
Human and Natural Systems Program (CNH-1313799) and an earlier grant from the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NA08OAR4310701).

###

“Interplay of Drought and Tropical Cyclone Activity in SE US Gross Primary
Productivity.” Lauren E. L. Lowman and Ana P. Barros. JGR Biogeosciences,
2016. DOI: 10.1002/2015JG003279

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

