

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# IBM-Duke Day Connects Students and Faculty with Opportunities

November 1, 2022

Duke ECE and CS co-hosted the half-day event, which brought IBM researchers
together with Duke faculty and students

The Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering (ECE) in Duke’s Pratt
School of Engineering and Duke Computer Science (CS) hosted an IBM-Duke
University Day to introduce faculty and students to IBM, highlighting the
technologies and solutions the company is developing with the career
opportunities it offers. The event was also supported by the Office of
External Partnerships.

The half-day event opened with remarks from Duke Partnership Executive & IBM
General Manager Steve Robinson, Duke ECE Chair Hai "Helen" Li and Duke CS
Chair Jun Yang.

Technical sessions followed with presentations from IBM technical executives
including Raj Nagaratnam, IBM Fellow and CTO for Cloud Security; Suj Perepa,
IBM Distinguished Engineer and IBM CIO Office, AI & Machine Learning CTO; Nate
Earnest-Noble, IBM Quantum Research; and Suman Gopinath, CTO, Z Hybrid Cloud.
Following each IBM talk, Duke faculty presented on their related research.
Duke presenters included professors Tingjun Chen and Neil Gong from ECE with
presentations on Cloud and Security, Jen Vizas and Mark McCahill representing
Duke CODE+, and a presentation on Duke Quantum Computing by ECE professor
Crystal Noel. The talks outlined areas of collaborative opportunities, with a
call for funded faculty proposals at the end of the afternoon.

In parallel, various IBM teams provided an afternoon of activities for
students, including networking and career information sessions. IBM hosted
tables and demos in the Fitzpatrick Center Atrium on the many technologies and
solutions being developed at the IBM Research Triangle Park (RTP) site, along
with programs and opportunities that would be of interest to both students and
faculty. Students learned about the immediate job opportunities and careers
available at IBM in RTP (and around the world). The student information
session topics included the IBM WebSphere Team (Cloud) - Building Solutions
and Careers, an IBM Quantum Information Session, and an IBM CIO presentation.
The afternoon student sessions wrapped up with a presentation on IBM
Internship Opportunities.

After the technical and student sessions ended, faculty, students and IBM
representatives continued conversations and networking with an eye toward
future collaboration, engagement and workforce opportunities.

## Related News

November 01, 2022

### TechConnect and Career Day Connect Students with Opportunities

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

