

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke's Inaugural Class of A. James Clark Scholars Graduate With Rave Reviews

May 11, 2022

The intensive undergraduate scholarship program launched at Duke in 2018
focuses on leadership, service, and business and entrepreneurship

The inaugural class of A. James Clark Scholars at Duke graduated on May 8 with
the Class of 2022.

Pioneering the ambitious scholarship program at Duke, these 10 bright and
promising graduates helped kick off the curriculum focused on leadership,
service, and business and entrepreneurship.

Created in 2018 with a $15 million investment from the A. James & Alice B.
Clark Foundation, the Clark Scholars Program is the foundation's engineering
education program. Clark Scholars at Duke University receive up to $10,000 per
year to follow their passion for making an impact through innovation. Ten
students are chosen from each entering class. Eligible applicants are incoming
first-year students at Duke who qualify for need-based financial aid and are
interested in founding new ventures at the intersection of business and
engineering.

The program mirrors the vision and values of construction-industry leader A.
James Clark, with its focuses on engineering, business, leadership and
community service.

Hailing from six states with a wide range of experiences and achievements
before entering the program, Duke's Class of 2022 Clark Scholars shared an
experience defined by personal mentoring, enrichment opportunities, and a
focused summer program in entrepreneurship and management.

Hear the new graduates talk about their experience in the program in the
video, including leadership lessons, service events for underserved students,
finding a group to belong to and why the curriculum is valuable for any
engineering student, regardless of whether they go into business.

More about Duke's Clark Scholars

## Related News

September 12, 2019

### Class of 2023 A. James Clark Scholars Arrive at Duke

August 20, 2018

### 10 of Nation's Brightest College-Bound Students Selected as Inaugural A.
James Clark Scholars at Duke

April 02, 2018

### Duke Launches Engineering Scholars Program with $15M Gift

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

