

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Inaugural Vest Scholar Works to Protect Water Purity

September 10, 2014 | By Ken Kingery

Duke’s first Vest Scholar, Laura Underwood, will seek ways to prevent
bacterial buildup in water treatment devices

This fall, Duke welcomes its first Charles M. Vest NAE Grand Challenges for
Engineering International Scholar to campus. Reminiscent of a reverse Rhodes
Scholarship, the award gives international graduate students the opportunity
to spend a year at one of nine universities in the United States conducting
research addressing the U.S. National Academy of Engineering’s Grand
Challenges for Engineering.

Duke’s inaugural Vest Scholar is Laura Underwood, a PhD candidate studying at
the University of Edinburgh, Scotland. While stateside, Underwood will be
working in the laboratory of Mark Wiesner, the James L. Meriam Professor of
Civil and Environmental Engineering, on solving worldwide issues of water
quality with nanoparticles.

“Today’s water treatment systems rely almost entirely on facilities with giant
footprints mostly using very old technology with a few new innovations
sprinkled in,” said Underwood, who has worked on water quality in a variety of
ways since her days as an undergraduate student. “We’re trying to help create
a small filter that can streamline processes and make systems more efficient.”

No stranger to the United States, Underwood was born in Delaware and moved
around the country quite a bit before earning her undergraduate degree in
chemistry from the College of Wooster in northeastern Ohio. After working for
a few years, she decided she wanted to pursue more applied technologies, which
led her to enroll in an engineering master’s degree program from the
University of Edinburgh.

After graduation, Underwood spent three months in an internship in Paris at
the headquarters of the United Nations Education, Scientific, and Cultural
Organization (UNESCO). The experience only made her thirst for pursuing novel
water purification technologies grow stronger, and she returned to the
University of Edinburgh to pursue a PhD focusing on the development of
nanomaterials that can act as a modular pre-filter to protect membranes and
ensure water quality.

One of the biggest obstacles in water filtration is biofouling. As a filter is
used to collect water contaminants, bacteria and other microorganisms tend to
build up and grow on it. Underwood hopes to develop an inexpensive method to
stop this buildup from happening using novel nanoparticles.

Wherever her research at Duke takes her, she’s looking forward to the
experience.

“Duke is well-known for water treatment research and the field I want to
research,” said Underwood, who said she was already familiar with Wiesner’s
work in the subject and was drawn to his research group in particular. “It’s a
great opportunity also to see how another laboratory works and experience what
graduate school is like in the U.S. I hope to take back to Edinburgh new
international connections and ideas so that we can better collaborate together
to solve some of the largest issues facing our collective planet.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

