

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Innovative Gift Supports Medicine-Engineering Collaborations at Duke

April 17, 2017 | By Jeni Baker

Commitment from Alan and Carol Kaganov will enable new research, education
initiatives to improve lung disease outcomes

A generous gift from Duke Engineering alumnus Alan L. Kaganov, E’60, MBA, MS,
ScD and his wife, Carol, aims to advance the diagnosis, treatment and outcomes
of pulmonary diseases by fostering new collaborations across engineering and
medicine at Duke University.

The Kaganovs’ $3 million commitment sponsors two innovative collaborations:

A $2 million gift will create the **Kaganov Research Initiative in Pulmonary
Medicine and Engineering** , which will fund collaborative research between
Duke’s engineering and medical schools aimed at tackling and ultimately curing
lung diseases such as pulmonary fibrosis.

Additionally, a $1 million endowment will support the **Alan L. and Carol M.
Kaganov BioDesign Fellowship** , through which Pratt School of Engineering
undergraduate recipients will partner with School of Medicine clinicians on
real-world design projects that primarily target respiratory function, disease
and treatment.

Both initiatives will launch in Fall 2017, with the program administered
through Duke MEDx.

## Philanthropy critical to reaching next level in lung disease outcomes

The Kaganovs – who have supported Duke Engineering in multiple ways over the
years – hope their latest gift will promote breakthroughs in screening,
diagnosis, treatment and cures for lung diseases.

> **A History of Generosity**
>
> Alan and Carol Kaganov’s past gifts to Duke Engineering include an endowed
> professorship in engineering, currently held by Ashutosh Chilkoti; a
> scholarship that has delivered more than $300,000 in support for nearly 20
> BME undergraduates since 1998; a conference room in the Fitzpatrick Center
> for Interdisciplinary Engineering, Medicine and Applied Sciences; and
> ongoing support through the Engineering Annual Fund, among other gifts.

“There’s potential across the entire spectrum of pulmonary disease to get to
the next level of available therapies through increased funding and focus,”
explains Alan Kaganov. “From earlier diagnosis and better technologies to
improved treatments and outcomes, we want to help advance every step along the
way.”

Ravi Bellamkonda, Vinik Dean of the Pratt School of Engineering, believes the
Kaganovs’ gift will play a vital role in fostering progress.

“Thanks to Alan and Carol’s support, our students will have a chance to
develop solutions to real clinician-derived problems, which will increase
their awareness of health care issues in the field and create a pipeline of
future leaders in biomedical engineering design,” he says.

“Philanthropy is also increasingly critical to our faculty’s ability to pursue
innovative ideas that could result in significant breakthroughs in areas such
as pulmonary disease and cancer,” Bellamkonda says. “We are deeply grateful to
the Kaganovs for their vision of bringing together faculty from diverse
backgrounds to give rise to this kind of creative and transformative
research.”

## A legacy of impact

That vision has been present throughout Alan Kaganov’s long career, which has
seen him involved in virtually every aspect of medical-device development.

Holder of 15 U.S. patents, he has helped develop treatments for conditions
including heart, peripheral vasculature, spine and urologic disease. His many
roles have included project engineer, R&D director, CEO, and board chairman;
for the past 20 years, he has been a successful venture capitalist in health
care. He has also served on the Pratt School’s Board of Visitors, which
honored him with a 2005 Distinguished Alumnus Award.

“Alan has thought a lot about how he can apply his knowledge and experience to
the unmet needs in the field of pulmonary medicine,” says Carol Kaganov, a
former writer and editor. “Although millions of people suffer with lung
disease, it’s a bit of a stepchild in terms of research dollars and
entrepreneurial efforts.”

Ashutosh Chilkoti, the Alan L. Kaganov Professor and chair of the Department
of Biomedical Engineering, is grateful for both the expertise and support.

“This incredibly generous gift reflects Alan’s longstanding interest at the
nexus of engineering and medicine that has defined his professional career, as
well as his commitment to improving the treatment of pulmonary disease,” he
says.

“The Kaganovs’ gift will not only deepen the research ties between Pratt and
the School of Medicine, it will also educate a new generation of students in
Alan's image – adept at using the tools of engineering to solve problems in
medicine.”

Mary Klotman, Department of Medicine chair and incoming School of Medicine
dean, agrees about the importance of collaboration.

“Because advances in engineering are also rapidly advancing medicine, we at
Duke are keen to foster more partnerships between our medical and engineering
schools,” she says. “This generous gift will help to unite two areas of great
strength: our Division of Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care Medicine and
the Department of Biomedical Engineering.”

Knowing Duke as well as they do, the Kaganovs are hopeful about their gift’s
potential. “Duke’s culture of collaboration – coupled with the work already
being done between the engineering and medical schools – facilitates
engineers, medical doctors, surgeons and researchers putting their minds
together to take the next steps in pulmonary medicine,” they say.

“This commitment allows us to do something lasting in that regard, and we know
that Duke can create those next steps with value-added collaborations.”

The Kaganovs intend to further this legacy in their estate plans by creating a
permanent endowment to continue the research initiative and symposia for years
to come.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

