

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# New Handle for Controlling Electromagnetic Properties Could Enable
Spintronic Computing

April 13, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

The magnetic transition of troilite causes instabilities in the “space
metal’s” structure that transforms it from a conductor to an insulator

Materials scientists at Duke University have shown the first clear example
that a material’s transition into a magnet can control instabilities in its
crystalline structure that cause it to change from a conductor to an
insulator.

If researchers can learn to control this unique connection between physical
properties identified in hexagonal iron sulfide, it could enable new
technologies such as spintronic computing. The results appear April 13 in the
journal _Nature Physics_.

Commonly known as troilite, hexagonal iron sulfide can be found natively on
Earth but is more abundant in meteorites, particularly those originating from
the Moon and Mars. Rarely encountered in the Earth’s crust, most troilite on
Earth is believed to have originated from space.

Despite its relative rarity, troilite has been studied since 1862 without much
fanfare. A recent theoretical paper, however, suggested that there might be
novel physics at play between the temperatures of 289 and 602 degrees
Fahrenheit—the temperature range at which troilite becomes both magnetic and
an insulator.

“The paper theorized that the way the atoms shift in their crystalline
structure is impacting the mineral’s properties through a pretty complicated
effect that hasn’t been seen before,” said Olivier Delaire, associate
professor of mechanical engineering and materials science, physics and
chemistry at Duke. “The most important aspect is this interaction between
magnetic properties and atomic dynamics, which is a subject that has not been
investigated a lot before but is opening up new possibilities in computing
technologies.”

To get to the heart of the material’s odd behavior, Delaire and his colleagues
turned to Haidong Zhou, assistant professor of experimental condensed matter
physics at the University of Tennessee, for the difficult task of growing
perfect crystals of troilite. The researchers then took samples to Oak Ridge
National Laboratory and Argonne National Laboratory to blast them with
neutrons and x-rays, respectively.

When particles such as neutrons or x-rays bounce off the atoms inside a
material, researchers can take this scattering information to reconstruct its
atomic structure and dynamics. Because neutrons have their own internal
magnetic moment, they can also reveal the direction of each atom’s magnetic
spin. But because neutrons interact weakly with atoms, x-rays are also very
handy for resolving a material’s atomic structure and atomic vibrations in
tiny crystals. The researchers compared results from the two different scans
using quantum mechanical models created on a supercomputer at Lawrence
Berkeley National Laboratory to make sure they understood what was happening.

> “This is the first clear example that the alignment of magnetic spins can
> control the instabilities of a material’s crystal structure. This is the
> type of material that’s exciting in terms of enabling new types of devices.”

After watching the changes that occur through troilite’s phase
transformations, the researchers discovered previously unseen mechanisms at
work. At high temperatures, the magnetic spins of troilite atoms point in
random directions, making the material non-magnetic. But once the temperature
drops below 602 degrees Fahrenheit, the magnetic moments naturally align and a
magnet is born.

The alignment of those magnetic spins shifts the vibration dynamics of the
atoms. That shift causes the entire crystalline atomic structure to deform
slightly, which in turn creates a band gap that electrons cannot jump across.
This causes the troilite to lose its ability to conduct electricity.

“This is the first clear example that the alignment of magnetic spins can
control the instabilities of a material’s crystal structure,” said Delaire.
“And because these instabilities lead to a connection between the crystal’s
magnetic and conductivity properties, this is the type of material that’s
exciting in terms of enabling new types of devices.”

The ability to tune a material’s magnetic state by applying electrical
currents, and vice versa, would be essential for the realization of
technologies such as spin electronics, Delaire said. Known as spintronics for
short, this emerging field seeks to use an electron’s intrinsic spin and
associated magnetic moment to store and manipulate data. Combined with an
electron’s traditional role in computing, this would allow computer processors
to become denser and more efficient.

Through this paper, Delaire and his colleagues have identified the magnetic
controls of the distortion mechanisms of the crystal structure, giving
researchers a handle to manipulate one with the other. While that handle is
currently based in temperature changes, the next step for researchers is to
look at applying external magnetic fields to see how they might affect the
material’s atomic dynamics.

Whether or not troilite becomes the new silicon for the next generation of
computing technology, Delaire says finding this unique mechanism in such a
well-known material is a good lesson for the entire field.

“It’s surprising that, even though you have a compound that is relatively
simple, you can have this fancy mechanism that could end up enabling new
technologies,” said Delaire. “In a sense, it’s a wakeup call that we need to
reconsider some of the simpler materials to look for similar effects
elsewhere.”

This research was supported by the Department of Energy (DE-SC0016166, DE-
SC0019978, DE-AC02-06CH11357, DE-AC02-05CH11231, DE-AC05-00OR22725) and the
National Science Foundation (DMR-1350002).

CITATION: “Magnetically-Driven Phonon Instability Enables the Metal-Insulator
Transition in h-FeS,” Dipanshu Bansal, Jennifer L. Niedziela, Stuart Calder,
Tyson Lanigan-Atkins, Ryan Rawl, Ayman H. Said, Douglas L. Abernathy,
Alexander I. Kolesnikov, Haidong Zhou, and Olivier Delaire. Nature Physics,
April 13, 2020. DOI: 10.1038/s41567-020-0857-1

# # #

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

