

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# It's Spring Already? Physics Explains Why Time Flies as We Age

March 20, 2019 | By Ken Kingery

A slowdown in image processing speeds up our perception of time passing as we
age

A Duke University researcher has a new explanation for why those endless days
of childhood seemed to last so much longer than they do now—physics.

According to Adrian Bejan, the J.A. Jones Professor of Mechanical Engineering
at Duke, this apparent temporal discrepancy can be blamed on the ever-slowing
speed at which images are obtained and processed by the human brain as the
body ages.

The theory was published online on March 18 in the journal European Review.

“People are often amazed at how much they remember from days that seemed to
last forever in their youth,” said Bejan. “It’s not that their experiences
were much deeper or more meaningful, it’s just that they were being processed
in rapid fire.”

Bejan attributes this phenomenon to physical changes in the aging human body.
As tangled webs of nerves and neurons mature, they grow in size and
complexity, leading to longer paths for signals to traverse. As those paths
then begin to age, they also degrade, giving more resistance to the flow of
electrical signals.

These phenomena cause the rate at which new mental images are acquired and
processed to decrease with age. This is evidenced by how often the eyes of
infants move compared to adults, noted Bejan—because infants process images
faster than adults, their eyes move more often, acquiring and integrating more
information.

The end result is that, because older people are viewing fewer new images in
the same amount of actual time, it seems to them as though time is passing
more quickly.

“The human mind senses time changing when the perceived images change,” said
Bejan. “The present is different from the past because the mental viewing has
changed, not because somebody’s clock rings. Days seemed to last longer in
your youth because the young mind receives more images during one day than the
same mind in old age.”

“Why the Days Seem Shorter as We Get Older.” Adrian Bejan. European Review,
2019. DOI: 10.1017/S1062798718000741

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

