

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Jeffrey Vinik

May 3, 2014

Chairman, President, and CEO of Vinik Asset Management

**Graduation Year:** 1981

**Degree at Duke:**  
Bachelor of Science

**Major/Program:**  
Civil Engineering

**Career Highlights:**

  * Former manager of the world's largest mutual fund, Fidelity Magellan

It wasn't long ago that Jeff Vinik helmed Fidelity Magellan, the high-
performing fund that grew to gargantuan proportions and legendary status in
the '90s. Today, he's still widely acknowledged in financial circles as a man
who moves markets. His brilliant navigation of the turbulent waters of high
finance has made investors hundreds of millions of dollars and made him one of
the most influential investors ever. "My proudest accomplishment is my
consistent performance over the past 12 years," Vinik says. "Through up and
down markets, crashes and crises, I've delivered excellent performance, with
few down periods and minimal risk to my investors."

Vinik, who gathers data and makes investment decisions on some 25 companies a
day, takes a steadfastly non-emotional approach to market analysis. "The stock
market is not purely rational, so it's resistant to purely analytical models,"
he says. "But if you structure your variables properly, you have a high
probability of getting a productive answer and making a good decision.
Emotions are usually wrong, so I don't try to examine what I'm feeling so much
as look at what other people are doing, analyze their actions, and then go in
the opposite direction."

Vinik says his renowned ability to make accurate-and lucrative-market calls
has been bolstered by the education he received at Duke. "An engineering
education seemed like the right foundation for whatever I wanted to do," he
says. "I was drawn to the use of mathematical and scientific principles to
achieve solutions." Not that all of Vinik's most vivid memories are set in the
lab or the classroom. "I took a surveying course in the second half of my
freshman year, which happened to be the coldest winter in Durham's history,"
he recalls. "We were working in slush, snow, and bone-chilling air, and you'd
better believe that we learned to survey well and do it quickly."

Vinik also still remembers the semester he spent with a professor and team of
fellow students engineering the water runoff in the Duke Gardens. "We broke
down the problem, analyzed it piece by piece, and figured out the best
approach," he says. "In that regard, it really wasn't that different from what
I do now."

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

