

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Jennifer West on the evolving BME PhD

May 7, 2019

Beyond mentoring her own students, Jennifer West helps PhD students across the
school develop the necessary skills for success both inside and outside the
lab

As the Fitzpatrick Family University Professor of Engineering at Duke,
Jennifer West leads a vibrant lab focused on biomaterials and tissue
engineering. Beyond mentoring her own doctoral students, West serves as
associate dean for PhD Education for the Pratt School of Engineering, where
she helps PhD students across the school develop the necessary skills for
success both inside and outside the lab.

#### Are you seeing a shift in the kinds of careers Duke BME graduate students
are pursuing?

We have noticed an interesting trend at Duke. Previously, about 52 percent of
students would go on to careers in industry and nearly 40 percent would go on
to academia, whether that was a faculty position or a post-doctoral fellow
position. Now, we’re seeing more and more students want to become
entrepreneurs. It’s interesting to see how that translates to their research
projects. In addition to impressive research publications, students are now
pursuing projects that they can use as the basis for a startup, and they’re
trying to collect data that they could present to a venture capitalist.

#### How does the department support this growing entrepreneurial interest?

Last year Duke BME launched BRiDGE [the Bioengineering Research Initiative to
Develop Global Entrepreneurs] to provide resources to lower the activation
barrier to get a company off the ground. This incubator allows students and
faculty more breathing room to develop their idea rather than spend all of
their time raising the capital themselves, which is helpful for new
entrepreneurs. Recent graduates, like Kelli Luginbuhl, PhD’17, have moved into
the space to launch their own companies and learn from faculty entrepreneurs.

Duke BME also does a lot of work with the Duke Innovation & Entrepreneurship
Initiative, which is another resource that helps bring innovations from the
lab to the bedside.

#### What sets Duke BME apart from other biomedical engineering PhD programs?

Students usually don’t begin their thesis research until they’ve completed the
first year of their PhD program. But at Duke, our students can begin their PhD
thesis research right away, and that makes our program fairly unique. We let
students dive into their work right away, and we offer them a flexible
curriculum that they can tailor to their intended career path. If they’re
interested in medicine they are encouraged to work with colleagues in the
medical school; if they’re interested in entrepreneurship they can use the
various resources across Duke to get a startup running. And our Engineering
PhD Plus program connects them to a really impressive array of professional
development tools that can help them prepare for whatever path they want. It’s
a truly collaborative environment, both within the Pratt School of Engineering
and across Duke as a whole.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

