

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Jessilyn Dunn: Gaining Insights from Biomedical Big Data

June 5, 2018

New faculty member Jessilyn Dunn explores how to use biomedical data sets to
model and guide personalized therapies

Jessilyn Dunn will join the faculty of Duke University’s Department of
Biomedical Engineering (BME) and Department of Biostatistics & Bioinformatics
(B&B) beginning January 1, 2019. With research centered on using large-scale
biomedical data sets to determine positive health outcomes, Dunn will
contribute to the growing focus on biomedical and health data sciences at
Duke.

Today, people are most familiar with health data due to the rising popularity
of wearable technology, like fitness trackers or smart watches. These tools,
which measure daily activity, workouts and sleep patterns, provide users with
a general idea about their overall health and help them to form healthier
lifestyle habits. Physicians use information that they collect from medical
records and clinical chemistry tests, which identify biomarkers for complex
diseases or disorders, to decide on the optimal treatment plans for patients.
Large biomolecular data sets like genomics, proteomics and metabolomics are
used largely by biomedical researchers, and their role in healthcare is
expected to grow in the future as their clinical value is demonstrated. There
has been little to no integration across these diverse types of biomedical
data for research or healthcare to date.

In her new role at Duke, Dunn aims to draw novel health insights and
actionable conclusions by integrating data from these three sources (wearable
devices, electronic health records, and multi-omics). A major focus of the
Dunn Lab will be generating predictive models for different diseases using
statistical and machine learning methods with the ultimate goal of developing
effective and customized treatment plans tailored to individual patients.

“I’m excited to bring a new facet of health and data science to Duke BME and
B&B,” said Dunn. “By integrating diverse types of biomedical data, we can
develop more precise ways to catch who is sick and who will become sick, and
then develop appropriate therapeutic interventions. My goal is to turn data
sources, like wearable technology, from an information delivery system into an
insight delivery system to help people lead healthier lives.”

Although data science is useful across a broad spectrum of diseases, Dunn has
focused her efforts on two areas: cardiometabolic disease and pre-term birth
and pregnancy.

Cardiometabolic disease is a combination of disorders that includes both
cardiovascular conditions, like heart disease, and metabolic diseases, like
type 2 diabetes. Because many of these disorders share common symptoms,
physicians typically use similar therapeutic treatment plans to treat a
variety of cardiometabolic disorders. Through her work, Dunn hopes to use
patient data to better inform and customize treatment plans.

“We’re still trying to work out what kind of data is the most useful for
creating a treatment plan for cardiometabolic disorders,” said Dunn. “Consumer
wearables hold promise because we’re able to collect high-resolution data over
long periods of time. That constant stream of data may be more useful when
monitoring and treating cardiometabolic disease than blood tests and vital-
sign testing that only occur infrequently at doctor’s visits.”

In the realm of pregnancy, Dunn is using biomedical data to predict and
prevent dangerous issues like preterm birth, which affects children born
before the 37th week of pregnancy. Each year, more than one million newborns
die from complications relating to preterm birth, and children who survive are
more likely to develop health complications like breathing problems or
developmental delays.

“There are lots of problems that can occur during pregnancy that we don’t
fully understand, and because of that we don’t always have effective methods
for early intervention,” said Dunn. “One of the ways we’ve tried to
incorporate data involved a wearable device to monitor EMG signals from the
uterine wall. This type of data could help us develop computational models
that are useful for predicting complications.”

Dunn, who is currently a postdoctoral fellow at Stanford University, obtained
a PhD in BME from Georgia Tech and Emory and a BS in BME from Johns Hopkins
University. During that time, she studied the transcriptome and the epigenome
of certain types of vascular cells to understand how these cells changed
during disease processes. This research, she says, ignited a strong interest
in the potential of data science, especially surrounding the potential of
wearable technology to detect disease at different biological scales.

“It was always exciting to see how our findings changed as we layered in
different types of data from multiple sources,” said Dunn. “When I started at
Stanford, I was thinking about what data we could add to information in
medical records and biomolecular data sets that would have an impact. Wearable
technology was the obvious next step.”

Now, as Dunn prepares to make the transition to Duke, she looks forward to
growing the field of data science with collaborators across the university.

“Duke is at an exciting transition point, where there is a wide interest in
using data science to revolutionize healthcare,” said Dunn. “I’m excited to
build up the data science community within BME and drive Duke’s reputation as
a premier institution in this fascinating and growing field.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

