

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Jonathan Viventi Receives $7 Million to Engineer Flexible Brain Interfaces

January 5, 2022 | Michaela Kane

In three separate projects, Jonathan Viventi will explore how to optimize
electrode arrays to improve neuroscience research, enable better neural
prostheses and study epilepsy after brain injuries

Jonathan Viventi, an assistant professor in Duke University’s Department of
Biomedical Engineering, has been awarded multiple grants from the National
Institutes of Health and the Department of Defense, totaling more than $7
million in funding. These grants will support Viventi and his team as they
develop and optimize flexible brain interfaces for multiple uses.

Traditionally when researchers study brain activity or neurological disorders,
they use electrodes that are individually wired to a separate, far-away
recording device. The sheer amount of wiring in a constrained space means that
researchers can only use about 100 electrodes, so they’re often required to
choose between obtaining a high-resolution reading by focusing on a small area
of the brain or collecting low-resolution readings over a large area of the
brain.

But Viventi has sidestepped this limitation by designing thin, flexible
electrode arrays that require a fraction of the wiring and dramatically
increase the number of sensors available for use.

In three new projects, Viventi and his team will explore how they can further
optimize these tools for improved uses in neuroscience research, for a
wireless speech prosthetic, and in post-traumatic epilepsy.

In the first NIH project, called Neuro-CROWN, Viventi and his collaborator Dr.
Hui Fang at Dartmouth College’s Thayer School of Engineering, are developing
flexible, three-dimensional electrode arrays that will enable neuroscientists
to sample brain activity with improved coverage and resolution. The team will
receive $3 million over four years to advance the project.

While Viventi’s prior electrode arrays are flat, two-dimensional, flexible
shapes that can be placed on the brain, the team developed an entirely new
electrode array using an ultra-flexible neural interface dubbed the Neuro-
CROWN (CMOS-based, rollable, low-noise neuroelectronics). The electrodes,
multiplexing electronics, and wiring for the Neuro-CROWN device will be
fabricated in a flexible form factor, and then rolled into a tight, small
cylinder with shanks at one end. Thousands of sensors will be placed along
these shanks, which can then be easily inserted into targeted areas throughout
the brain so researchers can collect a variety of brain measurements.

“There are existing tools where you can have hundreds of electrodes along a
single penetrating shank so you can collect information at different depths
within the brain, but you can’t see what else is going on across the brain,”
says Viventi. “Other arrays are like a bed of nails, where they cover a wider
brain region, but the electrodes only reach one depth within the brain. Our
effort will combine both together to have simultaneous recordings at multiple
depths, from multiple locations throughout the brain.”

According to Viventi, this new array could house more than 2,000 sensors and
use fewer than 20 external wire connections. The limited use of wires would
help make it an ideal array for long-term experiments to study the behavior of
freely behaving animals.

“This project will be useful for BRAIN Initiative Investigators and the
broader neuroscience community as they perform very large-scale recordings in
animal models,” says Viventi. “We’re optimistic that the technology that we
develop in this project can also be rapidly translated to humans in the
future.”

In their second NIH project, which is supported by an R01 grant and provides
the team with $3.8 million in funding for five years, Viventi and his team
will develop and optimize wireless electrode arrays that can be used for
speech neural prostheses.

Patients who suffer from neuromuscular diseases such as locked-in syndrome,
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) or muscular dystrophy have difficulty
communicating through speech, which negatively impacts their quality of life.
The most common speech aids for these disorders can track a patient’s eye
movement to spell and read out words, but these signals and spellers are often
slow and inconsistent. Researchers have long explored how they can use neural
prostheses to translate brain signals into speech, but these efforts have
faced numerous technological limitations.

“Our goal is to develop a speech prosthetic where a patient could imagine
saying words, and the computer can produce a voice for them,” says Viventi.
“Previous teams have shown that this is possible with just 128 individually
wired electrodes, but our goal is to develop an array with 1000s of electrodes
that are fully implanted and wireless. This would allow for higher performance
decoding and would also support natural language speech that is both faster
and more efficient.”

To accomplish this, Viventi has been working with Dr. Gregory Cogan, an
assistant professor in the Department of Neurosurgery at the Duke University
School of Medicine, to study speech patterns and the speech areas of the brain
during surgery. They’ve already shown that early prototypes of their electrode
arrays can quickly and efficiently decode speech signals after just 10 minutes
of recording.

“Our focus is on developing the electrode arrays and the recording system,
while Greg’s lab will develop the decoding algorithms that translate the
electrical signals into speech,” explains Viventi. “These arrays include their
own electronic components, so they can be packaged and sealed up without
requiring any external wiring.”

According to Viventi, these arrays would be implanted on targeted areas in the
brain and then wirelessly communicate with an external component on the
patient’s head, like a cochlear implant. The external component would then
send the data to a computer, where it would translate the signals into speech.
The external component would also be rechargeable and wireless. Viventi and
his team will work with Blackrock Neurotech throughout the study to ensure
that the technology they develop can be FDA-approved and commercialized at the
end of the project.

“We are grateful for the partnership with Dr. Viventi and Duke University in
our efforts to develop devices that help people who have lost function and so
urgently need new solutions,” says Dr. Florian Solzbacher, co-founder and
Chairman of Blackrock Neurotech. “Further, this new technology platform has
the potential to revolutionize how smart implants are designed, manufactured
and tested. It fits perfectly into Blackrock’s strategic technology portfolio,
which we are building to increase options for future neural interface products
that leapfrog existing technologies.”

In their final project, which is supported by the US Department of Defense and
provides $715,000 over three years, Viventi and his collaborators will develop
a wireless electrode array that can help researchers and physicians diagnose
and manage epilepsy disorders caused by traumatic brain injury (TBI).

TBI affects more than 2.8 million people a year, and it is especially common
among veterans. One of the main consequences of a traumatic brain injury is
posttraumatic epilepsy. So far, researchers have been unable to pinpoint what
brain signals trigger epilepsy, and it’s difficult to predict if and when
patients will develop epilepsy, as they can have their first seizure more than
a year after their TBI.

“We have developed wireless and implantable arrays that would enable long-term
brain recordings for patients with TBI who are at an increased likelihood of
developing epilepsy,” explains Viventi. “This tool would give physicians and
researchers unprecedented access to human electrophysiological data, and it
would ideally help them gain a better understanding of how and why epilepsy
develops in these patients.”

According to Viventi, these electrode arrays would be sensitive enough to
allow physicians to localize the neural circuits that trigger their seizures,
and they could provide data that would guide surgical interventions. Because
these arrays are also self-contained and wireless, they could be left in the
brain for up to a year, limiting any complications, such as infections, from
external wire connections.

“These wireless arrays would allow patients to live their lives at home rather
than be confined to a hospital bed for a month,” says Viventi. “By tracking
long-term data, we can learn more about when we need to intervene to prescribe
medication or surgery, and we can learn how to treat epilepsy more effectively
overall.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

