

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Junjie Yao: Listening into the Body through Light

May 19, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

New faculty member Junjie Yao will begin a photoacoustic tomography program at
Duke

Junjie Yao has joined the faculty of the Biomedical Engineering Department in
Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering. A pioneer in the emerging field
of photoacoustic tomography (PAT)—a powerful new imaging technology—Yao will
bring together Duke’s expertise in clinical photonic and ultrasound
applications to study the brain as well as develop new cancer diagnostics and
therapies.

As the two terms in photoacoustic tomography implies, the technology combines
the imaging capabilities of photons and ultrasound waves.

And that ultrasound wave carries a lot of valuable information about the
tissue.

“PAT has two major advantages, unique scalability over a wide range of sizes
and the strong ability to gather functional and molecular information,” said
Yao, who comes to Duke from a postdoctoral research associate position at
Washington University in St. Louis, where he also earned his PhD. “A lot of
other imaging technologies like X-ray, CT or MRI mostly provide large-scale
anatomical images. But this technology can image at length scales from a
single cell all the way up to an entire body, and it can pull functional
information about a tissue’s composition.”

If Yao’s research’s main title is photoacoustic tomography technology, then,
he says, his work has three main subtitles.

The first is in functional brain studies, especially for fundamental neuron
science. Yao plans to develop imaging technologies that interact with
different elements within the brain, such as neurons, blood vessels and other
supporting structures. By developing wearable devices for small animal models,
PAT can precisely map their neural network and determine what neurons respond
to various external stimuli.

The second two subtitles have a common theme—cancer. PAT can provide a variety
of anatomic and functional information, such as where a tumor is and whether
or not a treatment worked as well as planned. But it can also be the treatment
itself by guiding a surgeon’s hand during surgery or precisely controlling the
temperature rise of a deep-tissue tumor to kill the cancerous cells.

“It’s safe to say that PAT is still in its early stage because most of the
work is still focused on technology development,” said Yao. “But the field is
developing fast and people are trying hard to push the technology into health
care and hospitals, which is what I hope to accomplish at Duke.”

Yao says that a big draw for him to come to Duke is its strengths in both
ultrasound and optical imaging. Faculty members like Gregg Trahey, Kathy
Nightingale and Olaf Von Ramm have spent the past decade developing ultrasound
imaging techniques and devices that are currently being used in clinical
settings. And others, like Joe Izatt, Adam Wax and Sina Farsiu have developed
optical coherence tomography for surgical eye procedures, low-coherence
optical spectroscopy to observe cellular structure, and advanced signal and
image processing methods to improve the optical imaging quality, respectively.

“All of these optical and ultrasound imaging researchers are going to be my
best friends,” said Yao. “There’s nowhere else that has such strong resources
in both fields, and I want to connect them even more deeply. And I love to
work with physicians, so having a strong medical school just across the street
is exciting because this type of technology development cannot be successful
without their input and help.

“I’m very excited to get to Duke as soon as possible to start my work,”
continued Yao. “All the students are excellent. I’ve been very impressed by
their motivation in research and strong interest in science. I think Duke will
be a perfect place to begin as a junior faculty member. I’ll be starting the
photoacoustic imaging program from zero, but with fantastic students and
collaborators I think we can do something great.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

