

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# K-12 Outreach: Let There Be LITE

April 19, 2022 | Elizabeth Witherspoon

The Light, Infrared and Thermal Energy workshop by Po-Chun Hsu’s lab group
engaged local high school students in optics, photonics and materials science

Students from the North Carolina School of Science and Mathematics (NCSSM) in
Duke's hometown of Durham recently got to see firsthand how different
materials emit different amounts of infrared light (IR), which is ordinarily
invisible to the naked eye. In the process, they also got glimpses of the Duke
campus labs and materials science facilities—so they could envision themselves
as future engineers.

Po-Chun Hsu, assistant professor of mechanical engineering and materials
science at Duke, and members of his lab group created and hosted a one-day
outreach event called LITE: Light, Infrared and Thermal Energy.

“Our goal was to educate and inspire higher educational career paths in the
fields of optics and materials science for sustainable energy among ninth- and
tenth-graders,” Hsu said.

The idea of having a workshop dedicated to light and thermal radiation
originated around five years ago when Hsu was a PhD student, he said. The
field to control light and heat for sustainable energy applications involves a
tremendous amount of cross-disciplinary work and he started noticing some gaps
across different fields. You might say this event was about shedding light on
the importance of collaboration across fields for students who seem destined
for careers in science, technology, engineering or mathematics (STEM) by
virtue of their enrollment in this rigorous STEM high school.

The eager participants began the Saturday event by assembling thermal-imaging,
virtual-reality (VR) Google cardboard goggles—like the ones used in the movie
_Predator_ —in which they inserted their cell phones and “viewed” IR in the
form of heat signatures while learning about blackbody radiation, emissivity
and radiative cooling.

Throughout the day, they used their goggles to view different objects in IR,
including an aluminum suit worn by Hsu Lab member Keyu Wang that reflects IR
and Leslie cubes, which have each side coated with a different material, such
as matte black, matte silver, shiny silver and bronze. Each of these materials
emits different levels of IR, explained Genesis Higueros, a PhD candidate in
the Hsu Lab who organized and led much of the workshop and even designed the
logo printed on their t-shirts.

The students also toured Duke’s Shared Materials Instrumentation Facility
(SMiF) and the Hsu Lab before watching an outdoor demonstration of a solar
energy device presented by a Duke Engineering undergraduate senior capstone
team.

“The experience was amazing,” said Gerri Cole, associate director of STEM
Outreach at NCSSM, who accompanied the students. “I was asking the students
about their experience, and a lot of them are inspired and want to join Duke
in the future.”

Ethan Moreno, a ninth-grader, said using the Leslie cube was his favorite
workshop activity.

Fellow ninth-grader Adrian Tejada said the scanning electron microscope was
his favorite instrument on the SMiF tour for “seeing the small details of
items from nature and those created in the lab.”

“It is nice to see what type of research they are doing and how they have
different facilities to do so, especially the inert glove boxes for air-
sensitive materials. Seeing actual temperature in the thermal camera was so
cool as well,” said tenth-grader Victoria Thompson.

Higueros said she is very happy with how the program went and credits the hard
work of her lab mates. The event was especially meaningful after the long wait
through the pandemic to have it in person. They plan to host others like it in
the future.

The Hsu Lab gratefully acknowledged funding support from:

  * National Science Foundation, Award No. ECCS 2145933
  * SPIE Education Outreach Grants Program  

  * Maclin Community Connection Grant, administered by the Pratt School of
    Engineering's Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Committee  

  * Duke University Stores

Duke Engineering in Service to Society

## Related News

January 25, 2022

### Hsu Wins NSF CAREER Award to Develop Energy-Saving Wearable Device

December 02, 2020

### Nanomaterials Enable Passive Dual-Mode Heating and Cooling Device

September 07, 2018

### Po-Chun Hsu: Engineering Nanostructured Materials to Keep You Cool

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

