

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Ken Gall Named Chair of Duke’s MEMS Department

April 24, 2015

Ken Gall has been named chair of the Department of Mechanical Engineering and
Materials Science in the Pratt School of Engineering at Duke University.

  * Watch video of Ken Gall's New Faculty Lecture

Ken Gall has been named chair of the Department of Mechanical Engineering and
Materials Science in the Pratt School of Engineering at Duke University. An
interdisciplinary scientist whose work focuses on developing and understanding
advanced materials for biomedical applications, Gall is currently a professor
at the Georgia Institute of Technology. He will join Duke June 1 and assume
the role of chair on July 1, 2015.

“In our national search, Ken distinguished himself as someone of tremendous
energy, exceptional teaching and leadership ability, and broad talents in
engineering and entrepreneurship,” said Tom Katsouleas, Vinik Dean of the
Pratt School of Engineering. “We believe he not only provide a boost to Duke
MEMS but to several other of our school’s strategic priorities, including
enhancing innovation and entrepreneurship in collaboration with the Duke I&E
Initiative, creating a joint initiative between Engineering and Medicine, and
developing a nationally recognized program that builds upon our strengths in
materials science.”

Gall founded the medical device company MedShape, which commercializes new
polymers and alloys that can change shape on demand to actively mold to human
tissue—a useful trick in many medical procedures including reconstructive
surgery. MedShape has five products cleared through the FDA and used in
orthopedic surgeries, including a fusion system that keeps ankle joint bones
together while healing and soft tissue fasteners to help graft tendons onto
the skeleton. All of the materials used by MedShape were a focus of strong
basic research efforts in Gall's lab before being translated to clinical use.

With a joint appointment in Georgia Tech’s departments of mechanical
engineering and materials science and engineering, Gall is well-prepared to
lead a department that unites the two.

“Duke is strong in both materials science and mechanical engineering, and
having the two fused together into a single department presents unique
opportunities for collaboration,” said Gall. “With a deep pool of talented
young faculty joining a solid foundation of experienced senior faculty, the
department is currently in a sweet spot that I find very attractive.”

Gall also sees opportunities to leverage ties to Duke’s world-class medical
school and leading biomedical engineering department—opportunities his own
work demonstrates.

Gall’s research has arms in both basic research and applied science. In the
former, he explores how material structure influences the properties of
biomaterials, and how that structure can be used to make a stronger material
or give it a unique mechanical or biological response. He also works with
materials that can spontaneously change to a different shape.

In translating his basic research into new applications, Gall works closely
with clinicians to create better solutions for helping the human body mend
itself after injury or surgery. For example, he helped create an active
intramedullary nail (a metal rod placed within the bone) to replace
traditional static materials used during fusion surgeries in the foot and
ankle. Unlike its rigid predecessors, the nail’s material contracts along with
the body’s tissue during healing—reducing failure rates for the fusion surgery
from the typical 50 percent down to around 5 percent. Another device,
currently in review at the FDA, is based on a new porous, high strength
plastic discovered in his lab that better integrates spinal discs during
fusion procedures to help relieve back and neck pain. While existing metal
devices on the market stay in place well, they can’t be imaged with MRI;
traditional plastic devices, on the other hand, can be imaged but don’t hold
well. The porous plastic material in the new device checks both boxes.

The ankle “nail” technology, coincidentally, is being studied in a clinical
trial at Duke Medicine.

“I feel like there’s a huge interest at Duke in bringing new technologies to
market,” said Gall. “Here, innovation and entrepreneurship isn’t something
extra that faculty have to work at on the side—it is actively encouraged. I
like that basic research that is translated into devices that directly benefit
people can be a part of what you do as a professor. It will be a big thrust of
mine, and of course not everybody has to follow that path, but I want to make
sure they all have the opportunity.”

Whatever path faculty choose to take under Gall’s leadership, it will be
something they’re passionate about.

“I definitely want to help people work on things they’re most excited about,”
said Gall. “Five years from now, I’d love for the department to have grown
substantially in size and to help my colleagues work in state-of-the-art areas
that not only attract new funding, but also new attention and recognition to
the department.”

That in turn will help fuel another of Gall’s priorities; strengthening
educational opportunities for graduate and undergraduate students. “One thing
that really appealed to me was how passionate Duke Engineering faculty are
about teaching and engagement with students,” he said. “I want to support that
so that every one of our students leaves Duke having had a very positive
experience that prepares them for success.”

Gall succeeds Earl Dowell, who has served as chair of Duke MEMS since 2010.
Dowell, a former dean of Duke Engineering, will continue on the faculty as the
William Holland Hall Professor of Mechanical Engineering.

### Video (shows slides with audio)

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

