

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Kielb Receives ASME’s R. Tom Sawyer Award

December 10, 2020 | Elizabeth Witherspoon

American Society of Mechanical Engineers bestows highest award for
contributions to gas turbines

Bob Kielb, professor of the practice in the Thomas Lord Department of
Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science (MEMS), has won the 2021 R. Tom
Sawyer Award given by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.

The honor recognizes outstanding contributions to advance the field of the gas
turbine and service to the International Gas Turbine Institute (IGTI) over a
substantial period, and is the highest honor bestowed by the IGTI.

ASME established the award in 1972 to honor R. Tom Sawyer, known in the
industry as the “Father of the Diesel Locomotive” and “Mr. Gas Turbine” and
who, for over four decades, toiled zealously to advance gas turbine technology
in all its aspects.

The same can be said of Kielb, whose 48-year career has spanned academic,
industrial and government research laboratory experience in turbomachinery
propulsion. This includes eight years with the U.S. Air Force, 10 years with
NASA Lewis Research Center, and 12 years with GE Aircraft Engines as manager
of aeromechanics technology, before joining Duke University in 2000.

“I always thought of myself as someone who might nominate someone else, not
one who would win this award,” said Kielb. “My first thought was, ‘I am just
not worthy.’ Turbine engineers around the world are my extended family. I
can’t find the adjectives to say how grateful I am for being selected for this
prestigious award.”

Kielb then recalled his first job in 1971 at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base,
east of Dayton, Ohio. He was awed that only 15 meters away was the office of
Hans von Ohain, a German physicist and designer of the first operational jet
engine. Ohain is a previous recipient of the R. Tom Sawyer Award.

Torsten Fransson, professor and chair (retired) of Heat and Power Technology
at the Swedish Royal Institute of Technology (KTH), nominated Kielb for the
award. Five other colleagues in the discipline also submitted letters of
support, including Earl Dowell, the William Holland Hall Distinguished
Professor in MEMS and former dean of the Pratt School of Engineering.

“His continuous interest and unyielding support for new approaches towards
aeroelasticity in gas turbines resulted in a completely new way of looking at
the influences of different blades towards their vibration characteristics,”
wrote Fransson, who included input from additional global industry leaders and
specialists in aeromechanics.

“As my boss at GE Aviation, he was one of my most inspiring and influential
leaders in my 33-year career,” wrote Eric Ducharme, chief engineer and general
manager at GE Aviation.

“His most important contributions have been on our understanding of how the
blade mode shape affects flutter behavior and the development of tools to
analyze forced-response,” wrote Paul Petri-Repar, director at RPMTurbo,
Australia. “Bob is also an excellent communicator and teacher. These soft
skills have allowed him to pass on his vast knowledge to many students and
engineers through his university teaching and industrial training courses."

> “Consistent in his professional life are his love of turbines and a
> determination to better understand the fundamental aeromechanical phenomena
> in turbines and their consequences for better design.”
>
> **Earl Dowell**  
>  William Holland Hall Distinguished Professor

Kielb is the director of the 30-year-old GUIde Consortium, an acronym for
Government, University and Industry working together on aeromechanical issues,
which consists of 12 companies, five universities and two government
organizations. Since 2008, he has served as Duke coordinator for the European
Union-funded THRUST MEng Program, a two-year Master of Engineering program
during which students spend a year at Duke and one at the Swedish Royal
Institute of Technology (KTH). He also is an affiliated professor of KTH.

“He has conducted and pursued basic research, applied research, component
development, applications, failure analysis, consulting and education,
virtually all related to turbines. Although most of his career has focused on
aircraft engines, he has also worked on turbine machines from ram air
turbines, to power turbines, to space shuttle main engine turbopumps,” wrote
Dowell. “Consistent in his professional life are his love of turbines and a
determination to better understand the fundamental aeromechanical phenomena in
turbines and their consequences for better design.”

This is Kielb’s fourth major ASME award. Other major honors include the Gas
Turbine Award, the Melville Award and the John P. Davis Award, plus the ASME
Dedicated Service Award and four Best Paper of the Year Awards, among others.

## Related News

April 27, 2016

### Duke AERO: Giving Lift to Students’ Careers

August 19, 2013

###  Aeroelasticity at Duke: Why Fear Flutter?

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

