

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Kunshan Workshop Explores Water Impacts Of Unconventional Energy Production
In China

October 21, 2015

Researchers, policymakers, environmental managers and other stakeholders
gathered at Duke Kunshan University for a two-day workshop.

_Story originally appeared on the Nicholas School for the Environment news
site_

Researchers, policymakers, environmental managers and other stakeholders
gathered at Duke Kunshan University for a two-day workshop last week to
explore the potential impacts of increased unconventional energy exploration
on China’s water supply, including Marc Deshusses, professor of civil and
enviornmental engineering.

About 100 people attended the 2nd Water-Energy in China Workshop, Oct. 14-15.
The event featured presentations by some of the world’s leading experts in the
fields of water quality, geochemistry, environmental engineering, resource
economics and environmental policy.

The rapid growth of unconventional energy exploration – especially shale gas
and tight sand oil – has the potential to transform water and energy economies
globally. For China, the onset of unconventional shale gas exploration has the
potential to alter China’s dependence on coal and reduce its greenhouse gas
emissions. Yet unconventional shale gas exploration brings with it an array of
environmental and regulatory challenges, especially high rates of water use
and the generation of large volumes of wastewater.

To explore these issues, participants at the workshop reviewed the latest
scientific findings on the risks posed by oil and gas wastewater to China’s
water supply, based on recent U.S. experiences. They also learned about new
water treatment technologies that could help reduce these risks, and legal and
regulatory policies that will be needed to help China navigate a safe
transition from coal-based energy production to unconventional energy
development.

For example, Deshusses talked about opportunities to recover energy from waste
treatment, in particular when treating high strength wastes such as animal
wastes from confined animal feeding operation or sewage sludge treatment.
Examples from his research were provided.

Joining Deshusses as presenters and co-chairs of the workshop were Avner
Vengosh, professor of geochemistry and water quality at Duke and Duke Kunshan,
and Erika Weinthal, Lee Hill Snowdon Professor of Environmental Policy at
Duke.

Other presenters included scientists and managers affiliated with 15 Chinese
research institutions, three U.S. universities and one Israeli university.

“Feedback was very positive. Our goals were to spur the exchange of ideas,
establish Duke and Duke Kunshan as resources that Chinese stakeholders can
trust on water and energy issues, and lay the foundation for future research
collaborations,” Vengosh said. “I feel we definitely succeeded on all counts.”

You can view the workshop agenda and list of presenters online here.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

