

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Including Small, Sharp Landscape Contrasts Refines Weather Forecasts

October 28, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

Landscape spatial patterns have an outsized effect on the accuracy of climate
and weather models

By leveraging a popular weather forecasting model, environmental engineers at
Duke University have demonstrated that sharp contrasts in relatively small
land features play an outsized role in local weather developments, which can
in turn influence larger climate trends. The study indicates that the addition
of such detailed data, which is currently overlooked in climate and weather
forecast models, should make such predictions more accurate.

The results appear online October 27 in Journal of Advances in Modeling Earth
Systems (JAMES).

“Our research illustrates that landscape heterogeneity, such as croplands next
to a city, or a lake next to a forest, can lead to more powerful
thunderstorms,” said Nathaniel Chaney, assistant professor of civil and
environmental engineering at Duke.

“What makes this important is that the scale at which these patterns happen is
smaller than what we can include in current global models,” added Jason Simon,
a postdoctoral associate working in Chaney’s laboratory and first author of
the paper.

Whether making long-term global climate predictions or short-term weather
predictions, climatologists and meteorologists turn to a handful of global
models (e.g., the United States uses the Global Forecasting System). One of
the limitations of these models is the scale at which they make their
calculations. To avoid months of simulation runtime, these models split the
Earth’s surface into boxes measuring between 10 to 100 kilometers (62.1 miles)
per side. Variables such as temperature, wind speed and moisture are directly
calculated at each node where the corners of these boxes meet but are
interpolated or averaged for all the space between them.

“That’s a large distance between points, in which there’s plenty of patterns
causing changes on their own,” Simon said. “It’s a whole aspect of weather
that’s being missed. And if it involves clouds, then it’s going to have a
large impact on the energy balance in relation to climate change on a global
scale.”

In their study, Chaney and Simon used a higher-resolution weather model, the
Weather and Research Forecasting model (WRF) to see what effect sharply
defined changes in soil moisture at a 100-meter spatial resolution have on
cloud formation. They focused on a 100-kilometer box over north-central
Oklahoma on three summer days, considering landscape patterns where small
lakes and rivers lay next to forests or thunderstorm-drenched plains, for
example. Acquiring actual ground data from specific days ensured that the
small-scale features they used were accurate representations of the real
world.

After running the simulations, the results showed that sharp differences in
landscape at these scales can have a disproportionately large effect on the
formation of clouds. For example, a drier, hotter area next to a cooler,
moister area — like an area where plains and city meet — will create surface
atmospheric pressure differences between the dry and moist regions that
triggers secondary circulations in the atmosphere. These circulations, in
turn, lead to the enhanced formation of clouds.

While this is not the first study to reveal these sorts of dynamics, it is the
first that uses realistic land surface data versus statistically simulated
spatial patterns that may or may not reflect reality. It is also novel in its
spatial resolution, which was shaved down to just 100 meters in the Weather
and Research Forecasting model.

Chaney and Simon say that it would take a lot of work to get global models
like the Global Forecasting System to be able to run simulations with this
scale of land surface data included. But according to their new results, it
could be possible if researchers adopted the tricks used by Chaney’s group to
simulate high-resolution landscape spatial patterns.

“Whether it’s a multi-year global climate model or a local daily forecast,
incorporating this level of detail would improve their accuracy,” Simon said.

“In the summer months — especially in North Carolina — we don’t know if it’s
going to storm until it’s almost raining on us,” added Chaney. “Using this
approach in a forecasting model could help us know several hours in advance.”

This research was funded by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration (NA19OAR4310241, NA19OAR4310242).

CITATION: “Semi-coupling of a Field-scale Resolving Land-surface Model and
WRF-LES to Investigate the Inﬂuence of Land-surface Heterogeneity on Cloud
Development,” Jason S. Simon, Andrew D. Bragg, Paul A. Dirmeyer, and Nathaniel
W. Chaney. Journal of Advances in Modeling Earth Systems, Sept. 12, 2021. DOI:
10.1029/2021MS002602

Open Access paper:
https://agupubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1029/2021MS002602

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

