

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Taking a Landslide’s Temperature to Avert Catastrophe

June 15, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

A new model for deep-seated landslides that takes into account the temperature
of a thin, unstable layer of clay could help stop catastrophes in their
tracks.

Engineers from Duke University have developed a comprehensive new model of
deep-seated landslides and demonstrated that it can accurately recreate the
dynamics of historic and current landslides that occur under various
conditions.

Peering past the standard measurements of velocity and water levels, the model
points to the temperature of a relatively thin layer of clay at the base of
the landslide as critical to its potential for sudden cataclysmic failure. The
approach is currently being used to monitor an evolving landslide in Andorra
and suggests methods for mitigating the risk of its escalation as well as any
other future deep-seated landslides.

The results appear online on June 15 in the Journal of Geophysical Research –
Earth Surface.

“I published a paper more than a decade ago that explained what happened at
the Vajont Dam, one of the biggest manmade disasters of all-time,” said
Manolis Veveakis, assistant professor of civil and environmental engineering
at Duke. “But that model was extremely limited and constrained to that
specific event. This model is more complete. It can be applied to other
landslides, providing stability criteria and guidance on when and how they can
be averted.”

The disaster Veveakis is referring to occurred at the Vajont Dam, one of the
tallest in the world at 860 feet, in northern Italy in 1963. After years of
attempting to mitigate a slow, incremental landslide of roughly an inch per
day in the adjoining mountainside by lowering the water level of the lake
behind the dam, the landslide suddenly accelerated without warning. Nearly 10
billion cubic feet of rock plummeted down the gorge and into the lake at
almost 70 miles per hour. That created a tsunami more than 800 feet tall that
crashed over the dam, completely wiping out several small towns below and
killing nearly 2,000 people.

Before the catastrophe occurred, scientists did not believe any potential
landslide would result in a tsunami more than 75 feet tall. They remain
puzzled at how this landslide had moved so violently and so suddenly.

In 2007, Veveakis put the pieces together and developed a model that fit the
scientific observations of the disaster. It showed how water seeping into rock
above an unstable layer of clay caused a creeping landslide, which in turn
heated up and further destabilized the clay in a feedback loop until it
rapidly failed.

“Clay is a very thermally sensitive material and it can create a shear band
that is very susceptible to friction,” said Carolina Segui, a PhD candidate in
Veveakis’s laboratory and first author of the new paper. “It’s the worst
material to have in such a critical place and is a nightmare for civil
engineers constructing anything anywhere.”

This early model, however, used only the last month of data from the Vajont
Dam, when the water level was almost constant. It ignored any sort of
groundwater variation, essentially assuming that the external loading remained
constant. While that model worked to explain the unexpected failure of the
Vajont landslide, the model’s assumptions made it impossible to offer real-
time assessments or use in other scenarios.

In the new study, Veveakis, Segui and Hadrien Rattez, a postdoctoral
researcher in Veveakis’s laboratory, plug the old model’s holes and provide
the ability to incorporate a combination of time-dependent external loading
and internal degradation. The resulting model is able to recreate and predict
observations taken from very different, deep-seated landslides.

“Traditional landslide models have a static internal material strength, and if
you exceed it the landslide fails,” said Veveakis. “But in examples such as
these, the landslide is already moving because its strength has already been
exceeded, so those models don’t work. Others have tried to use machine
learning to fit the data, which has worked sometimes, but it doesn’t explain
the underlying physics. Our model incorporates the properties of soft
materials, allowing it to be applied to more landslides with different loading
characteristics and provide an operational stability criterion by monitoring
its basal temperature.”

Besides using the model to recreate the movements of the Vajont slide and
explaining the mechanisms underpinning its motion for more than two years,
Veveakis and Segui show that their model can accurately recreate and predict
the movements from the Shuping landslide, another slow-moving landslide at the
Three Gorges Dam in China, the largest dam in the world. But while that
landslide is also the result of a manmade lake beside a dam, that’s where the
similarities end.

Before the Vajont Dam failed, there was a fairly linear relationship between
the lake level and the velocity of the creeping landslide. The lower the lake
level, the slower the landslide. The Shuping landslide, however, behaves in
the opposite manner — the lower the lake level, the faster the landslide. And
while the relationship between lake level and velocity was roughly linear at
the Vajont Dam, the velocity of the Shuping landslide is non-linear,
responding to additional sources of water and loading, such as seasonal
monsoons. It is also composed of different materials.

Despite these differences, the researchers’ new model is able to accurately
reproduce the Shuping landslide’s movements over the past decade.

In this case, the researchers do not have direct access to measurements taken
from the shear band, which is less than one meter of brown breccia soil and
silty clay. They have to make assumptions about the levels of friction and the
internal temperatures to make their model work.

In the mountains of Andorra, however, the slow-moving El Forn landslide
threatens the safety of a nearby village called Canillo and is being closely
monitored by the government. Unlike China or Italy, there is no dam or lake
involved — this landslide is being accelerated by melting snow feeding the
groundwater levels in the mountains above the city.

Even though the conditions are completely different from the previous two
landslides, the researchers are confident their model is up to the task.

Thanks to numerous boreholes that have been taken to gain a better
understanding of the El Forn landslide, Veveakis and Segui have been able to
insert thermometers directly into the shear band of a small lobe that is
sliding faster than the rest. With this level of data available, the
researchers expect to validate and refine their model even more, and even
provide advice as to how to avoid a potential catastrophe should one begin to
develop.

“One could imagine pumping water out of the ground, or circulating another
cold fluid through the shear layer to cool it down and slow the landslide,”
said Segui. “Or at the very least, if we couldn’t stop it, to provide enough
warning to evacuate. That is exactly why we are there.”

This research was supported by the National Science Foundation (CMMI-2006150).

CITATION: “On the Stability of Deep-Seated Landslides. The cases of Vaiont
(Italy) and Shuping (Three Gorges Dam, China),” C. Seguí, H. Rattez, and M.
Veveakis. Journal of Geophysical Research – Earth Surface, e2019JF005203,
2020. DOI: 10.1029/2019JF005203

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

