

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Joins $115 Million Quantum Systems Accelerator

September 1, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

Five-year project seeks to energize the nation’s research community to ensure
U.S. leadership in quantum R&D and accelerate the transfer of quantum
technologies

Duke University is joining 14 U.S. institutions in a five-year, $115 million
effort to forge the technological solutions needed to harness quantum
information science for discoveries that benefit the world.

Funded by the Department of Energy, the Quantum Systems Accelerator (QSA) will
be led by Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (Berkeley Lab) and energize
the nation’s research community to ensure U.S. leadership in quantum R&D and
accelerate the transfer of quantum technologies from the lab to the
marketplace. The center is one of five new Department of Energy Quantum
Information Science (QIS) Research Centers announced on August 26.

“The global race is on to build quantum systems that fuel discovery and make
possible the next generation of information technology that greatly improves
our lives,” said Berkeley Lab’s Irfan Siddiqi, the director of the Quantum
Systems Accelerator. “The Quantum Systems Accelerator will transform the
enormous promise of quantum entanglement into an engineering resource for the
nation, forging the industries of tomorrow.”

The center’s multidisciplinary expertise and network of world-class research
facilities will enable the team to co-design the solutions needed to build
working quantum systems that outperform today’s computers in certain arenas.
The goal is to deliver prototype quantum systems that are optimized for major
advances in scientific computing, discoveries in fundamental physics, and
breakthroughs in materials and chemistry. This foundational work will also
give industry partners a toolset to expedite the development of commercial
technologies.

Led by Chris Monroe, who joins Duke as a professor of electrical and computer
engineering and physics in January 2021 and directs the Duke Quantum Center,
Duke’s role in the project will be supported by nearly $11 million over five
years. Joining Monroe in the pursuit of quantum advantage are Jungsang Kim,
professor of electrical and computer engineering and physics; Ken Brown,
associate professor of electrical and computer engineering, physics, and
chemistry; and Iman Marvian, assistant professor of electrical and computer
engineering and physics.

As a leading node in QSA, the Duke Quantum Center housed at the Chesterfield
Building in downtown Durham will lead the design and fabrication of quantum
computer systems based on trapped ions, which are the most reliable systems
currently being developed. Duke experts will work closely with collaborators
at the University of Maryland, Sandia National Laboratory, MIT Lincoln
Laboratory, Harvard University, the University of Colorado and NIST-Boulder to
improve their next-generation quantum computer systems by developing optical
elements for ion trap chips, faster quantum gate operations, a smaller system
footprint to increase performance reliability, and piping around individual
photons between ion-trap chips to increase the modular scalability of the
technology.

The process of co-designing quantum computing systems and learning how they
will be used through partnerships with national laboratories, industry and
other universities is a trademark of the DQC and will be featured prominently
in the LBNL QSA. For example, while many quantum theorists currently
collaborate on designs remotely, Monroe envisions tightening this interaction
by having them on-site and in the laboratories.

“This is maybe the most exciting aspect of the DQC user facility plan,” said
Monroe. “It will produce science 10 times faster than we can do now, and it
will steamroll with the better performance in successively higher-performing
generations of systems. The DQC is standing up the most capable research
operation in the world for the design, fabrication and use of the highest-
performance quantum computers.”

## Related News

August 20, 2020

### Chris Monroe: Realizing Ion-Trap Quantum Computers to Solve Unsolvable
Problems

August 07, 2018

### Duke to Lead $15 Million Program to Create First Practical Quantum
Computer

June 08, 2017

### From the Abacus to Supercomputers to Quantum Computers

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

