

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Leading Computer Reliability for 40 Years

September 5, 2017

Duke ECE computer reliability and availability expert Kishor Trivedi publishes
his fourth textbook

When Kishor Trivedi came to Duke University in 1975 as a newly hired faculty
member, he was asked to teach a course on Probability for Computer Science and
Engineering—the art of calculating the likelihood that a computer’s hardware
or software system will perform as required and not break down too frequently.

The only problem was that he’d never taken a course on the subject himself.

That did not stop Trivedi, however, from diving headfirst into the literature
and learning it on his own. But as he did, Trivedi noticed there was no
existing textbook that covered the topic.

So he wrote his own.

_Probability and Statistics with Reliability, Queuing and Computer Science
Applications_ was published in 1982, followed by a full and complete revision
in 2002 and a comprehensive manual containing 300 problem solutions soon
after.

That textbook tackled a large swath of territory on a fairly basic level; its
revision remains widely used today. After its success, Trivedi decided to
delve even further into the subject, completing more advanced tomes on various
aspects of the field—including, in August 2017, his fourth book, _Reliability
and Availability Engineering: Modeling, Analysis and Applications_.

“I felt like we were never going to finish it for a while,” said Trivedi of
the book that he began with coauthor Andrea Bobbio in 2002. “But as far as
computer systems have advanced in the past 15 years, the methods used to
predict their reliability don’t change as much.”

To identify potential problems in hardware and software, researchers break
systems down into individual components and create probabilistic models that
describe a large system consisting of many interacting components through a
set of equations. They then work to solve those equations as efficiently as
possible.

“The beauty of all this is when you try to apply these methods to real
systems, you discover their difficulties,” said Trivedi, now the Hudson
Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Duke. “You have to find
ways to solve these difficulties, implement the novel solutions into the tools
and then apply the tools once again. That’s the cycle. And our tools are being
used by many companies.”

Trivedi’s books teach this process by providing real-world problems to solve.
One of his own most memorable came in the mid-2000s when he was asked to
analyze the current return subsystem on the Boeing 787 Dreamliner.

The engineers had replaced the metal used in the airframe with composites,
which meant they couldn’t simply tweak the old models to analyze it. They had
to start from scratch and were having trouble using Trivedi’s tool—called
SHARPE—to analyze the system.

Trivedi had an idea as to how they could solve the problem, so he sent one of
his doctoral students to help. Four months later, an entirely new algorithm
had been written to solve the equations. But that wasn’t good enough for the
Federal Aviation Administration, which required that such tools used for the
analysis follow a standard laid out in a 600-page document called D0178B.

“I’d never even heard of it, so we had solved the problem but we had not
solved the problem,” said Trivedi. “So I dumped everything that was in my mind
about what was done to ‘validate’ the tool SHARPE into a document detailing
why my methods were sound and sent it to them. They finally approved it, and
I, my graduate student and Boeing engineers patented the new algorithm.”

There are many other problems detailed in the books, which Trivedi is very
proud of. But perhaps one of his proudest moments came from the hands of
former students, friends and colleagues who authored a “festschrift” in honor
of Trivedi’s 70th birthday. Titled _Principles of Performance and Reliability
Modeling and Evaluation_ , the work is a volume of essays on research into the
performance and reliability aspects of dependable fault-tolerant systems.

“When I was new to Duke and just starting my academic career, I would travel
to universities to give talks--and the first thing people would do, before
anything else, was ask whether I knew Kishor Trivedi and then start praising
him,” said Krishnendu Chakrabarty, chair of ECE at Duke. “I was so impressed
that I told myself that one day I will be like Kishor. Such has been his
influence on me!”

There has been an abundance of similar praise of Trivedi’s long and
distinguished career at Duke University, which originally began in the
Department of Computer Science in 1975. Then, in 1991, Trivedi made the move
to the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, which he says has
changed tremendously since that time.

“EE was more teaching-oriented and not as heavy into research at the time,”
said Trivedi, who spent many years as chair of the department’s search
committee for bringing in new faculty members. “Back then, my research used to
bring in more support than the rest of the department combined. But now the
department has doubled in size and my work is just a drop in the bucket.”

As for what’s next, Trivedi doesn’t have any plans on slowing down. He
continues to add to the list of 46 doctoral students he has successfully
mentored, many of whom go on to work at industry giants such as Boeing and
IBM. And he’s still writing, now working with his coauthor on a solution
manual for problems in his latest book.

“Hopefully it won’t take quite as long to finish as the last one,” said
Trivedi. “But since I don’t type very fast, you never know.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

