

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Training Enormous AI Models in Health Care While Protecting Data Privacy

September 7, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

New platform draws data from multiple institutions while protecting privacy

Researchers at Duke University and the University of Pittsburgh have developed
a platform that allows multiple hospitals and research centers to share
private patient data securely to better train machine learning models. The
technology could provide single institutions access to advanced predictive
tools they could never develop on their own to both advance research and
improve patient outcomes.

Called “LEARNER,” researchers summarized the platform’s development at the
National Science Foundation’s Convergence Accelerator Expo 2021, an event that
shares the program’s research portfolio in an exhibition format, like a big
science fair.

“AI has incredible potential to improve health data analysis and diagnosis,
but it requires a vast amount of data to reach a standard that is acceptable
to use in real-life decisions,” said Helen Li, the Clare Boothe Luce Professor
of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Duke. “And whenever you talk about
health care data, there’s always a high level of privacy concerns. LEARNER
allows health data from many sources to be used to train an AI model without
actually sharing any of the sensitive data.”

When a machine learning algorithm is trained, it compares the decisions it
arrives at to the correct answers, attempts to tweak its inner workings to fix
the errors, and repeats the process over and over again until it is no longer
improving. These tweaks to its inner workings are referred to as weight
parameters.

LEARNER is based on a concept called “Federated learning.” In this setup, a
single AI model is housed in a central cloud that is provided to users in
multiple locations. Each location runs the AI model with its own data and
produces a new set of weight parameters, which is in turn sent back to the
cloud. The central AI model then uses all of the new weight parameters to
develop a single updated algorithm. The process is repeated until the AI model
is as good as it can get.

> "Whenever you talk about health care data, there’s always a high level of
> privacy concerns. LEARNER allows health data from many sources to be used to
> train an AI model without actually sharing any of the sensitive data.”
>
> helen li

Because only the weight parameters and not the actual data is being shared
with the cloud, this technique sidesteps any concerns about data privacy, but
the final trained model still represents data from all the entities involved.

“The original information remains hidden on local computers,” explained Li.
“For a large model, the process typically requires about 50-100 rounds of
training between the local entities and the cloud, which sounds like it might
take a long time, but in fact only takes a matter of hours.”

Built in collaboration with Heng Huang, the John A. Jurenko Endowed Professor
at the University of Pittsburgh, the LEARNER prototype demonstrated its
usefulness in single-cell multi-omic data and electronic health records. In
the former, researchers showed that LEARNER could use scRNA sequencing data to
predict the protein markers for associating mRNA sequences with protein
production. In the latter, they were able to use health record data to predict
the probability of heart failure patients being readmitted within 30 days of
being released.

But if all goes according to plan, that’s only the beginning. The researchers
are developing a user-friendly interface to encourage researchers and doctors
to use the platform. Not only would this help LEARNER develop new and better
AI health models, the platform also would eventually provide users with
hundreds, if not thousands, of pre-trained AI models that they could use in
their own laboratories and hospitals.

“We hope LEARNER will be a platform for health experts who want to take
advantage of AI but maybe don’t know a lot about AI themselves,” said Li. “We
also hope it will help AI researchers who want to delve into health care and
biomedical fields collaborate with one another on large-scale projects.”

Li and her colleagues are in talks with a North Carolina-based AI company to
continue to develop and potentially commercialize the LEARNER platform.

This research was supported by the National Science Foundation (OIA-2040588).

## Related News

September 17, 2020

### Duke-Led Team to Develop Privacy-Minded AI Health Learning Platform

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

