

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Learning System Dynamics to Support Policy Research, No Advanced Math
Required

June 25, 2018

The Modeling Health & Environment Graduate Working Group trains graduate
students to use software to build graphically complex models

from Duke Interdisciplinary Studies

For students exploring policy research, skills in systems thinking and
computer modeling can be a valuable asset. However, many modeling tools are
only accessible to those with advanced mathematical backgrounds.

The Modeling Health & Environment Graduate Working Group, organized by
Shashika Bandara (M.Sc. in Global Health) and Varun Mallampalli (Ph.D. in
Civil & Environmental Engineering), provided an opportunity for Duke students
from multiple disciplines to learn about system dynamics modeling and build
complex models relevant to their research.

> As a Ph.D. student in engineering, I was able to improve my teaching skills
> and collaborative skills by being part of this working group. Being exposed
> to issues related to global health and the potential avenues for
> collaborative research was a great learning experience for me.
>
> VARUN MALLAMPALLI, CEE PHD STUDENT

System dynamics is a modeling method that allows the user to create complex
graphic representations of systems and identify policy intervention points.

Bandara and Mallampalli received a Duke Support for Interdisciplinary Graduate
Networks (D-SIGN) grant from the Office of the Vice Provost for
Interdisciplinary Studies for 2017-2018. Their faculty sponsors were Kevin
Schulman and Mark Borsuk.

Here are excerpts from their year-end report:

We had a working group consisting mainly of engineering, global health, and
public policy students. Our strategy was focused around exposing graduate
students in global health and public policy to system dynamics modeling and
exposing engineering students to the world of practical policymaking.

We used STELLA software that allows students to graphically build complex
models. We chose this software as all students do not have the advanced
mathematical background required by many modeling software.

We provided basic training on STELLA software for graduate students,
opportunities to learn more about the use of modeling in research
environments, and self-learning tools and relevant lectures from the project
on an online platform. We also created course material based on the working
group sessions.

The first session centered around an interactive exercise where students
actively engaged in building a model to ward off a hypothetical flu epidemic
at Duke. Students responded by saying, “I would take a course on this” and
“This was very useful.” The interactive environment meant students exchanged
ideas and identified different ways to address the flu epidemic at Duke. Below
is a diagram of the system students built over a two-hour interactive learning
session.

In the second and third sessions we invited guest lecturers from Duke to
outline the practical aspects of policymaking and modeling. Professors Mark
Borsuk and Kevin Schulman talked about practical use of modeling in the
context of environmental and health systems respectively. Professor Gavin
Yamey from the Duke Global Health Institute engaged students on evidence-based
policymaking and improving writing skills.

The fourth session was an interactive learning session around modeling
predator-prey systems in the environmental sciences. The fifth session was a
webinar with Professor Georgia Mavrommati, Assistant Professor of Ecological
Economics at the University of Massachusetts, Boston. She spoke to students
about sustainability in coupled human natural systems, specifically looking at
coastal and lake systems and their ecological health as a consequence of human
interaction.Based on the feedback from the working group and requests we
received from undergraduate students, we decided to create an online resource
for students to learn system dynamics modeling. Thus, our current steps
include building a series of instructional videos. We will make these videos,
guest lectures and other resource material available on a website dedicated to
this project. We also aim to develop course materials integrating all our
lessons learned during the five sessions. We hope this course will serve as a
guide to students to engage more deeply with this subject.

As two graduate students from different fields, this project provided us with
the opportunity to understand potential collaborative opportunities between
global health and engineering. Also, it gave us the opportunity to reach
across and beyond the campus to gain expert opinions on the use of modeling.

CEE Graduate Studies

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

