

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Let’s Build an Artbot

December 22, 2021

Could a team of undergraduates program simple robots to use a more painterly
stroke? ECE Professor of the Practice Tyler Bletsch wanted to find out

Last summer, Professor of the Practice Tyler Bletsch was fiddling with a CNC
router, curious to know what effects he could achieve by swapping its carving
component with a pen. The earliest results looked like something an old dot
matrix printer would spit out, but they gave Bletsch an idea.

“Who wants to make an artbot?” he posted to Muser, a site for Duke
undergraduate students seeking interesting research opportunities.

Four engineering students—one of them a volunteer who participated for fun
instead of class credit—and a computer science/linguistics major raised their
hands for the project, which Bletsch characterized as fairly open-ended.

“We just wanted the robot to paint with a more human-like stroke,” he said.

It’s a challenge that’s more complicated than it sounds.

“At first we were just researching. Why start (writing code) from scratch if
there’s something out there already that you could use?” asked Evan Kenyon
ECE/CS’23. The most serviceable material he found was an old algorithm that
could transform a digital image into a set of computer mouse strokes for use
in Microsoft Paint. The mouse strokes mapped over to the artbot’s pen tool
fairly well, but when the team gained enough facility to graduate from pen to
paintbrush, its thicker strokes posed all kinds of problems. Sharp details
disappeared, for instance, as the artbot repeatedly painted over its own
initial lines and saturated the paper with paint.

To solve that problem, the team culled a large amount of material from the
order of operations so that the brush made fewer strokes. But then there was
also the issue of changing colors. Jonathan Sandoval ECE/CS’22, who said he
was drawn to the project because it bridged artistic expression and
engineering, created a map matching the original pixel colors to the colors in
their tray of paint and figured out how to rinse the brush with each change of
color.

“It uses what’s essentially an odometer to tell it when to stop, rinse in the
3D-printed basin, dip into the next color, and move back into position,”
explained Bletsch.

Mechanical engineering student Allison Taub ME’24 used the others’ re-
architected algorithm as a starting point for a second artbot—a “stringbot”
programmed to draw on a whiteboard with a marker, using a system of motor-
controlled pulleys and weights, to keep constant tension in the belts and
ensure the pen maintains contact with the board’s surface. Her robot’s pulleys
slacken and tension at different proportional rates, making her motion problem
much trickier. And the stringbot can’t change colors by itself—she halts the
program, changes the marker, and then commands the bot to resume drawing. “I
sat here until 2 a.m. one night, waiting for it to finish drawing a dog,” she
said ruefully.  

All of these early hiccups offer the team entry points into new projects and
tools for improvement; Miriam Shams-Rainey CS/Linguistics’23, for example,
developed a visualizer tool to predict whether the team’s code would work as
intended, saving them from additional all-nighters, if not speeding up the
process.

Fortunately, Bletsch wasn’t concerned with speed anyway.

“I was looking for motions similar to what a human artist might use, and the
algorithm that shook out was a combination of pointillism and guiding
strokes—it was a more organic style than what we started with. I could imagine
an artist using a similar style,” said Bletsch.

All four of the students who took the course for credit agreed that gaining
competency in GCode, which is commonly used to generate instructions for 3D
printers, was a very valuable skill to learn over the course of the semester.
Sandoval added that the experience of managing the handoff among team members
will be useful to him in the future if he heads to a development job.  And
Shams-Rainey got her first taste of the engineering design process. “In
computer science you write a lot of code and learn to design software, but I
haven’t gotten a lot of experience with how that interacts with circuitry and
mechanics,” she said. “It was cool to see how the things I’m studying
interface with engineering.”

Bletsch also serves as advisor to the Duke Combat Robotics club. Check out
these highlights from the 2021 tournament.

More News from Duke ECE

## Related News

November 15, 2021

### A New Classroom Strategy: Flipped+

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

