

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Li Named Distinguished Member of the Association for Computing Machinery

November 8, 2017

Hai "Helen" Li was recognized for her contributions toward developing the next
generation of computer hardware

The Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) has recognized Hai “Helen” Li,
associate professor of electrical and computer engineering at Duke University,
as a Distinguished Member for outstanding contributions to the field.

Li’s research focuses on developing the next generation of computer hardware
based on the fastest, most efficient example we know of—the human brain. Along
with 42 of her colleagues, the group is responsible for an extraordinary array
of achievements, reflecting the many distinct areas of research and practice
in the computing and information technology fields.

“Computing technology is becoming an increasingly dominant force in our daily
lives and is transforming society at every level,” said Vicki L. Hanson,
president of the ACM. “In naming a new roster of Distinguished Members each
year, ACM underscores that the innovations which improve our lives do not come
about by accident, but rather are the result of the hard work, inspiration and
creativity of leading professionals in the field. We honor the 2017 class of
ACM Distinguished Members for the essential role their accomplishments play in
how we live and work.”

The 2017 ACM Distinguished Members work at leading universities, corporations
and research institutions around the world, including Australia, Belgium,
Canada, France, Hong Kong, Italy, The Netherlands, Portugal, Qatar, Singapore,
South Africa, South Korea and the United States. These innovators have made
contributions in a wide range of technical areas including accessibility,
computational geometry, cryptography, computer security, computer science
education, data structures, healthcare technologies, human-computer
interaction, nanoscale computing, robotics and software engineering —to name a
few.

The ACM Distinguished Member program recognizes up to 10 percent of ACM
worldwide membership based on professional experience as well as significant
achievements in the computing field.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

