

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Pratt Students Engineer a Softer, Gentler Cart Ride for Duke Libraries' Rare
Books

January 23, 2019 | by Aaron Welborn, Duke University Libraries

A team of students in Duke Engineering's First-Year Design Course were
challenged to device a better book cart that was gentler on both the books and
the ears of everyone in the building

_From Duke Today_

_Video produced by Sonja Likness from film shot by Trudi Abel_

The most enduring technologies are often the simplest, as well as the easiest
to take for granted. Consider the humble book cart. It's basically a shelf on
wheels. Yet for moving lots of books around, its efficient design would seem
to offer little room for improvement. That is, unless you've ever tried
maneuvering one across a floor of Duke stone.

For some time now, staff in the Rubenstein Rare Book & Manuscript Library have
struggled with a basic design problem. The same stone that gives Duke's campus
its timeless Gothic charm turns out to make a bumpy road for books.

Its hard, uneven surface transforms a routine cruise down the hall with a cart
full of books into a teeth-rattling steeplechase. This is especially
problematic when the books on the move are rare, fragile and of inestimable
value. And then there's the noise. A decibel meter recently clocked a rackety
Rubenstein book cart at roughly the same volume as a lawnmower. Far be it from
us to shush anybody.

So what's a poor librarian to do? Rubenstein Research Services Archivist Trudi
Abel recently turned to an unlikely source for help—Ann Saterbak, director of
the new "First-Year Design" course at the Pratt School of Engineering.

Each incoming class of Pratt undergrads is required to take "First Year
Design." The course divides students into teams and matches them with
"clients" around campus and the local community who have real-world design
problems in need of solutions. In her proposal, Abel laid out the library's
dilemma and challenged the future Duke engineers to devise a better book cart.

One group of students was up to the task. Keyu Han, Aneesh Gupta, Joey Zhou,
Vineet Alaparthi, and Kevin Kerner dubbed themselves the All-Terrain
Manuscript Team. After visiting the Rubenstein Library and test-driving the
book carts for themselves, they began isolating the key engineering problems
of vibration, load displacement, and noise. Over the course of several weeks,
they researched existing design solutions—including carbon fiber loop wheels,
dampers, and shock absorbers—and began the long iterative process of design,
trial, error, and redesign.

Their new-and-improved cart had to meet strict criteria. It needed to be easy
to use, capable of bearing 500-600 pounds, no more than 32 inches wide,
audible only to the person operating it, durable enough to last ten years, and
affordable at under a thousand dollars. And it should provide such a smooth
ride that a book in transit wouldn't budge more than a single inch. Easy,
right?

At the end of the semester, the All-Terrain Manuscript Team unveiled their
prototype. Its lightweight steel frame was mounted on a chassis with a simple
suspension system and pneumatic tires, which could traverse bumpy stone and
elevator-floor transitions with cushiony ease. Protective railings around the
shelf area would keep priceless tomes from falling off, while a thin layer of
acid-free, conservation-quality foam provided additional grip and padding.
Every design requirement was neatly checked off the list. Best of all, they
kept the cost to around $500, within the general project budget.

The cart made its relatively noiseless debut to resounding appreciation by
Rubenstein Library staff. Although it's too early to say whether the students'
design can be produced at scale, it was a worthwhile learning opportunity all
around. Library staff were impressed with the engineering students' elegant
solution to a vexing problem, while several of the students admitted they had
no idea Duke held such literary treasures. Indeed, they were surprised at the
level of public access allowed. "You mean we have books worth $2 million," one
of them said, "and anyone can just ask to see them?"

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

