

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Light and Sound Gauge the Temperature of Deep Tissues

February 13, 2019 | By Michaela Kane

Non-invasive imaging technique could greatly enhance cancer therapies

Measuring a fever is usually pretty simple: place a thermometer under a
patient’s tongue and get an accurate temperature reading within 30 seconds.
But that simplicity does not translate when it comes to measuring the
temperatures of specific tissues deep inside the body.

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have demonstrated how photoacoustic
imaging can take the temperature of deep tissue more quickly and accurately
than current techniques. This discovery is expected to play an important role
in advancing thermal-based therapies to treat cancer. The research appears
February 12 in the journal Optica.

Tracking the temperature of internal tissues is essential for many biomedical
studies and thermal therapies of cancers, often affecting a treatment’s
efficiency or side effects.

“If we use MRI or ultrasound, we’re looking at relative temperature and
operating under the assumption that the patient has a baseline temperature of
98 degrees Fahrenheit, which isn’t always the case,” said Junjie Yao,
assistant professor of biomedical engineering at Duke. “We found a way to
measure absolute temperature by using photoacoustic imaging to probe the
thermal memory of the tissue.”

As the name implies, photoacoustic imaging allows researchers to combine the
properties of light and sound. This technique allows researchers to convert
light beamed through tissue into ultrasound waves that can then be analyzed to
create high-resolution images.

"It's basically compressing one second's worth of summer-noon sunlight over a
fingernail area in a single nanosecond," said Yao, who has been working with
the technology for nearly a decade. "When the laser hits a cell, the energy
causes it to heat up a tiny bit and expand instantaneously, creating an
ultrasonic wave. It's analogous to striking a bell to cause it to ring."

According to Yao, researchers have wanted to use photoacoustic imaging to
measure temperature for a long time, but they’ve consistently experienced
technical roadblocks.

“The conversion efficiency between light and sound is temperature-dependent,
so we know it’s possible to measure temperature by listening to soundwaves
generated by light,” Yao said. “However, we haven’t previously been able to
measure absolute temperature because the process itself needs to know how many
photons are reaching the tissue, which is technically challenging.”

To get around this missing information, Yao is working with Pei Zhong, a
professor in the department of mechanical engineering and materials science
who has generated deep tissue heating using high intensity focused ultrasound
(HIFU). Their team devised a new approach named thermal-energy-memory-based
photoacoustic thermometry, or TEMPT, which uses photoacoustic imaging to
measure the tissue’s “thermal memory.”

With TEMPT, researchers take a baseline temperature reading before bombarding
the tissue with a burst of nanosecond-long laser pulses. The pulses
temporarily increase the tissue’s temperature, which is then measured using
another photoacoustic pulse.

The research team was able to use these measurements and a mathematical model
to estimate the absolute temperature without knowing how many photons were
delivered.

The ability to more precisely measure the temperature of tissues deep in the
body has important implications for treating cancer with thermal ablation,
which involves heating up tumor cells using HIFU or radio waves until they
die. Although thermotherapy is a newcomer in the battle of fighting cancers,
researchers are very enthusiastic about this treatment because it doesn’t
cause the serious side-effects associated with radiotherapy and chemotherapy.

“One of the challenges with thermotherapy is that we need to keep the
temperature in the most efficient range,” Yao said. “If the temperature is too
high, we can damage the surrounding tissues, and if it’s too low, we’re not
causing enough damage to the tumor. The TEMPT technology could be incorporated
into the treatments to hone in on the perfect temperature.”

Yao said researchers are eager to explore the most precise temperature range
for efficiently killing tumor cells. Beyond the therapeutic potential, Yao and
his collaborators are also examining how their work can be applied to other
fundamental research questions.

“We’re already forming new collaborations, both with physicians and engineers,
to continue to advance this new technology in the lab and beyond,” Yao said.
“This is very exciting because it can potentially be translated to clinical
impacts and benefit cancer patients ”

This research was supported by the Duke MEDx Basic Science Pilot Grant, Duke
Center for Genomic and Computational Biology Faculty Pilot Research Grant, the
American Heart Association Collaborative Sciences Award (18CSA34080277);
National Key R&D Program of China (2016YFC0102200); National Natural Science
Foundation of China (NSFC) (81471665 and 81561168023) and National Institutes
of Health (R37-DK052985-21).

CITATION: “Thermal Memory Based Photoacoustic Imaging of Temperature,” Yuan
Zhou, Mucong Li, Wei Liu, Georgy Sankin, Jianwen Luo, Pei Zhong, and Junjie
Yao. Optica, February 12, 2019.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

