

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Light-Based Cancer Therapy Moves Through Clinical Trials

September 26, 2017

A major interdisciplinary collaboration led by Duke CTSI yields a novel cancer
therapy using light-activated compounds

_From the Duke Clinical and Translational Science Institute_

In 2016, a dog named Eliza made the national news after a miraculous recovery
from a terminal cancer diagnosis. The 13-year-old Labrador retriever had been
given five weeks to live when she received "immunolight therapy," an
experimental treatment developed through a collaboration of Duke University
researchers and biotech company Immunolight LLC.

It worked, and Eliza lived cancer-free for more than two years before she died
of natural causes. A veterinary oncologist told the Raleigh News & Observer
that the tumor "melted away."

Eliza was one of several canines to receive the treatment at the North
Carolina State University College of Veterinary Medicine as part of a
compassionate use trial. Immunolight therapy has since been used to treat a
human patient on a compassionate basis, and multiple Phase II clinical trials
are underway in companion animals at NCSU. Plans are being made for a multi-
center clinical trial in humans.

These dramatic achievements point toward a promising advance in the fight
against cancer, but with a large web of researchers involved, the journey to
this point was long and winding, with success far from guaranteed.

"This is probably the biggest and most complicated project I've ever seen,"
says Harold Walder, President of Immunolight. "Real breakthrough innovation
does not happen within one discipline. It happens at the intersection of
disciplines, and to make this happen we needed expertise from many different
scientific research domains."

## Making light inside the body

Immunolight therapy is based on the notion that a light-activated compound
called psoralen can be used to trigger an immune response against tumors.
Psoralen is a botanically-derived drug used to treat a variety of skin
disorders, but it had never been applied in this way before.

"The whole challenge for us was, 'How do we get this drug activated?'" says
Wayne Beyer, Vice President of Chemistry and Biological Sciences at
Immunolight. "How do we make light inside the body?"

The Immunolight team's idea was to use nano-particle phosphors that could
convert sub-therapeutic doses of x-ray into light, activating the psoralen
inside the tumor, where light can't normally reach. The phosphors and psoralen
would be injected into the tumor and exposed to x-rays, precipitating a series
of biological reactions capable of destroying the tumor. But the team needed
help perfecting the chemistry, biology, and physics while ensuring
biocompatibility with the body, so they spent a year searching for a suitable
partner before signing sponsored research agreements with Duke in 2008.

Walder says, "The main thing that brought us to Duke was the interdisciplinary
environment. Having access to world-class researchers in chemistry, radiation
physics, photonics, and clinical research was crucial."

But that same access brought with it another set of challenges. As the web of
involved researchers grew larger, the number of logistical stumbling blocks
grew as well.

"A project like this requires multiple labs to function at a level of
cooperation that isn't readily achievable in the typical single-investigator
university environment," says Barry Myers, professor of biomedical engineering
at Duke. "It needed a different approach."

Issues such as joint management of funds, transfer of technology between labs,
and ability to identify investigators with the necessary capability hampered
their early progress. But rather than allow the project to stall, the team
looked within the Duke Health ecosystem for support.

They found it in the Duke Clinical and Translational Science Institute (CTSI),
which was then known as the Duke Translational Research Institute. Created
expressly to aid and accelerate academic health research on its journey from
the lab to the patient's bedside, CTSI provides funding, resources, and
logistical support to projects in a variety of health-related fields.

"This was the perfect opportunity for CTSI to bring in project management and
oversight," says Myers, who is the Director of Innovation at CTSI. "We really
did drive this thing forward. We brought in clinicians, provided scientific
direction, managed finances, and handled tech transfer."

Beyer says this intervention was key. "If anything, we got to where we're at
now because of CTSI."

## Sharing the load

CTSI support helped sustain what is now a nearly decade-long collaboration,
and allowed the many labs involved in the project to focus on what they do
best.

Researchers from across the Duke ecosystem contributed their expertise at
crucial junctures. For example, Dr. Michael Therien's group in the Department
of Chemistry determined the amount of energy necessary to activate the
nanoparticles, and nanophotonics expert Dr. Tuan Vo-Dinh, the R. Eugene and
Susie E. Goodson Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering, developed
multiple generations of energy converting particles. Dr. Neil Spector,
associate professor in the Duke School of Medicine, helped the team map out
the treatment's effectiveness with many different types of cancer cells at a
molecular level. Dr. Mark Dewhirst, the Gustavo S. Montana Professor of
Radiation Oncology in the School of Medicine, studied the efficacy of the
technology in cells and animal models.

Additional collaborators joined from outside Duke, such as Dr. Mike Nolan at
the NCSU College of Veterinary Medicine, who treated Eliza and other
critically ill dogs.

Now, they are moving forward with human trials spanning a range of cancer
types, including sarcoma, melanoma, breast cancer, and head and neck cancers.

"It's been a great collaboration among this large network of multiple
institutions, and it continues with respect to sponsored research activities
in addition to enabling human clinical trials," Walder says.

Beyer notes that the long and winding road has led them to exactly where they
hoped to be. "Our intent all along was to enable clinical trials at a place
like Duke, which is at the forefront of both cancer treatment and research."

_This research was supported in part by Duke's Clinical and Translational
Science Award, NIH grant number UL1TR001117._

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

