

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Lisa Wu Wills: Designing Custom Processors to Accelerate Health Care
Research

September 4, 2019

New faculty member Lisa Wu Wills creates customized computer architectures to
efficiently process large volumes of research data

Lisa Wu Wills has joined the Departments of Electrical & Computer Engineering
and Computer Science at Duke University. An expert in tailoring computer
architectures to efficiently process large volumes of data, Wills plans to
apply her skills to collaborations with a direct impact on health care.

Traditional, mass-produced computer processors are excellent jacks of all
trades, able to handle a wide variety of tasks. As the saying goes, however,
this often means that they are a master of none. When dealing with large
volumes of data, processing times can stretch from hours into days.

One way to counter this challenge is through hardware accelerators—specially
tailored processor architectures that perform specific functions more
efficiently than a general-purpose central processing unit, or CPU. The
downside of this approach is that these accelerators take a long time to
develop, are expensive to produce and are difficult to update; they usually
are not worth the investment for individual research projects.

But times are changing. With the advent of reprogrammable logic devices such
as field-programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), specialized architectures no longer
need to be set in stone. Now, because there are FGPAs that are programmable,
developers don't even have to purchase any hardware—they can rent time on
virtual FPGAs through companies such as Amazon Web Services for a fraction of
the cost.

After spending several years in the private sector, Wills decided to return to
academia so she could focus on projects affecting human health. After three
years as a postdoctoral research fellow at the University of
California–Berkeley, she joined Duke's faculty on July 1, 2019.

"Duke has an excellent medical school and a vibrant portfolio of health care
research," said Wills. "But there are a lot of researchers in this area who
are putting up with slow software tools for data processing. I'm forming
collaborations to implement custom hardware accelerators to expedite their
research and make a difference for society."

> "There are a lot of researchers in this area who are putting up with slow
> software tools for data processing. I'm forming collaborations to implement
> custom hardware accelerators to expedite their research and make a
> difference for society."
>
> -Lisa WU WILLS

One example of Wills's work is a high-performing hardware accelerated genomic
analytics system that runs on FPGAs in the cloud. When DNA is sequenced, it is
roughly aligned to reference the genome, but the alignment must be corrected
before variations in the genome can be identified. It is a necessary but slow
process, taking almost two full days.

For clinicians testing newborns in the NICU for genetic diseases, however,
time is of the essence. Early diagnoses are critical to effective treatment,
and any delay can negatively affect the health of the infant. The system
developed by Wills's team at Berkeley—a hardware accelerator they built from
scratch and implemented in a development framework—is 80 times as fast and 32
times less expensive as the standard software.

Wills plans to make the accelerator development framework open-source. "Open-
source software has been a boon to many startup companies that can simply
build on top of what others have already done," she said. "But if you want to
create a hardware startup that can quickly do the same thing, forget it. There
are very few hardware components that are open-source. Licensing fees are
high, and manufacturing costs are even higher. We are developing an open-
source framework to take care of the cumbersome, repeated steps so that others
can focus on whatever it is they want to accelerate."

To jumpstart her students' knowledge base of an up-and-coming FPGA programming
language called Chisel, Wills is hosting a bootcamp on Friday, September 6,
which is also open to all students and industry hardware architects in the
area.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

