

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Lynch Wins Office of Naval Research Young Investigator Award

April 8, 2016

Researchers at Duke University have received a grant to engineer microbes to
make explosives.

“Well, precursors to energetic materials,” explained Mike Lynch, assistant
professor of biomedical engineering and chemistry at Duke. “These compounds
are traditionally produced from petroleum sources, many outside of the United
States and everyone is trying to move away from using petroleum and toward a
domestic supply. Plus the current processes creates a lot of unwanted
hazardous waste.”

The grant comes in the form of a 2016 Young Investigator Award from the Office
of Naval Research. The $510,000, three-year awards support researchers in
their first or second full-time tenure-track or tenure-track-equivalent
academic appointment who show exceptional promise for doing creative research.

Lynch’s creative approach is much like that of the farmer who prunes an
orchard to encourage trees to direct their energy toward producing fruit
rather than growing branches. By culturing microbes at industrial scales as
quickly as possible before dynamically shutting down growth, Lynch can channel
all the microbes’ energy toward product formation. This approach also reduces
the complexity of a cell’s biochemical reactions to a few dozen processes that
can be tailored to produce the compound in question.

In this instance, Lynch will be tailoring bacteria to produce butanetriol and
phloroglucinol, which are precursors to several energetic materials, among
numerous other products. Not only will this help the nation’s long-term energy
and national security by moving away from petroleum while securing a domestic
supply for these materials, it will also eliminate the toxic wastes and
negative environmental impacts of current manufacturing approaches. The
explosives eventually produced by these two compounds are also much safer and
more stable than many others currently in use. These materials are routinely
used not only by the Department of Defense but also by NASA, the Department of
Energy and many in the private sector.

“There are also other numerous interesting applications for butanetriol and
phloroglucinol in other final products including pharmaceuticals including
antispasmodics (Flopropione) and cholesterol lowering drugs (Crestor and
Zetia), as well as dyes and potentially novel advanced materials,” said Lynch.
“This is a good way to start moving in several exciting areas, another reason
I am excited about this project.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

