

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Mark Borsuk: Valuing the Invaluable, Predicting the Unpredictable

July 7, 2016

New faculty member Mark Borsuk builds data-based models to inform
environmental policy

Duke University alum Mark Borsuk G’01 will return to his alma mater September
1, 2016 to join the faculty in the Department of Civil and Environmental
Engineering. With a distinctive record of probabilistic modeling of the
environment and non-economic valuation of natural resources, Borsuk aims to
influence environmental policy by developing models that can inform decisions
despite high levels of uncertainty.

The practice of risk evaluation is well-developed in fields such as insurance
and finance. Corporations have made billions of dollars by accurately
assessing how much risk is worth taking, whether by establishing the terms for
a start-up’s new business loan or by setting an insurance premium for an
oceanfront property.

These sorts of decisions aren’t made on hunches; they rely on statistical
decision theory to predict the likelihood of different possible outcomes and
their corresponding costs or benefits. Such decisions are critically dependent
on the decision-maker’s tolerance for risk. But while these methods have been
around for some time, they have not been fully exploited in the area of
environmental policy.

“People use uncertainty in scientists' predictions of the exact consequences
of climate change as an excuse for inaction,” said Borsuk, who returns to Duke
after four years at the Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Science and
Technology (EAWAG) and eleven years at Dartmouth College. “My goal is to help
to recognize the possible consequences of action, and then weigh them against
the risks of not acting.”

For example, Borsuk recently contributed to a cost-benefit analysis of carbon
emission reductions used to inform Federal regulations. According to Borsuk,
many models focus on the most likely consequences of climate change over the
coming decades, while failing to account for the less likely, but more
catastrophic, possibilities in the longer term. This leads to overlooking the
“insurance value” of early action to mitigate emissions, as opposed to a
“wait-and-see” approach.

A separate ongoing study looks at the regulations governing water quality in
America’s small streams. The Clean Water Act has historically been interpreted
as exclusively protecting relatively large, navigable rivers, resulting in
smaller tributaries being largely ignored. But the land management around
these smaller flows can affect the larger downstream water bodies, and they
are inherently socially and ecologically important in themselves.

Part of Borsuk’s work involves determining the cultural, aesthetic, and
recreational value of small streams to local citizen stakeholders using
methods that do not rely on monetary units. In this way, their full benefits
can be more appropriately assessed in relation to local farming and industrial
practices. This work should help support the Environmental Protection Agency
and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers as they seek to more clearly define and
protect tributaries impacting the health of downstream waters.

“The watershed we are investigating that leads to the Great Bay Estuary in New
Hampshire has been developed rapidly over the past decades, and our work looks
at balancing these economic developments against downstream environmental
risks,” said Borsuk. “It actually has a lot in common with the rivers in North
Carolina over that same time period, and I think a lot of the lessons we’re
learning in New Hampshire will translate well to North Carolina.”

Borsuk’s research is necessarily interdisciplinary in nature. With a BS in
civil engineering from Princeton followed by an MS in statistics and decision
science and PhD in environmental science and policy from Duke, he works with
experts in natural science, mathematics, statistics, business, law,
engineering and many other fields. That’s part of the reason for his move to
Duke, where he sees a lot of potential for working with the Nicholas School of
the Environment, the School of Law and the Fuqua School of Business.

He also sees interdisciplinary programs such as Bass Connections and the
Information Initiative at Duke’s Data+ program as natural places for his work
to thrive.

“I’m excited by Pratt’s commitment to solving grand challenges and Duke’s
mindset of service to society,” said Borsuk. “My students will get a broader
interdisciplinary experience at Duke and will learn a lot about how to be
ambitious, because Duke is an institution that takes risks and is always on
the forefront of new ideas and technologies.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

