

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Marvian Wins National Science Foundation CAREER Award

June 29, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

Prestigious five-year award will help develop a fundamental understanding of
quantum mechanical phenomena such as quantum chaos and quantum thermodynamics

Iman Marvian, assistant professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering and
Physics at Duke University, has been awarded a prestigious National Science
Foundation Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) Award. The award supports
outstanding young faculty members in their efforts to build a successful
research enterprise

For the next five years, the $510,000 award will support Marvian’s efforts in
Quantum Information Science to use insights gained from developing models for
quantum computing algorithms and quantum circuits to understand other quantum
physical phenomena such as quantum chaos and thermodynamics. This research is
also expected to lead to new techniques for protecting quantum computers
against noise.

As researchers continue to close in on stable, large-scale quantum computers,
parallel work is being pursued to understand their power and limitations. This
effort has also shed new light into the underlying fundamental theoretical
physics and has created ideas that can be applied to study other phenomena.

“The tools and ideas developed in quantum information science have found
diverse applications in different areas of physics”, said Marvian. “For
instance, the idea of quantum circuits was originally introduced in analogy
with the classical logic circuits, to model the computation performed by
quantum computers. But over the years, this framework has found many other
applications. For example, random quantum circuits have now become a standard
model in theoretical physics for studying quantum chaos.”

One important aspect of this line of research is how quantum-mechanical
systems with multiple interacting components behave in the presence of
symmetries. Symmetries and conservation laws are fundamental concepts both in
classical and quantum physics. For example, classical physics can calculate
how fast an ice skater will spin with arms outstretched versus tucked because
their angular momentum must be conserved. Similarly, quantum mechanics also
adhere to a notion of rotational symmetry that implies conservation of angular
momentum. These conservations laws can be used to make predictions of how
quantum systems will behave in different circumstances. For instance, they
determine allowed electron transitions in atoms and molecules and, hence,
explain why different materials have different colors.

Symmetries of quantum-mechanical systems and their consequences have been
extensively studied in modern physics. However, Marvian’s recent work has
revealed new, unexpected behavior of composite quantum-mechanical systems in
the presence of symmetries. The results of better understanding this problem
are expected to have applications and implications in areas such as quantum
control, quantum simulation and quantum thermodynamics.

While the project is mainly theoretical, it also contains an experimental
component, which will be carried out in collaboration with Marvian’s
colleagues at the Duke Quantum Center. When completed, Marvian hopes to not
only have gained a much better understanding of a wide range of quantum
mechanical systems, but also to have helped pushed forward the field of
quantum simulation, which is one of the main applications of quantum
computers.

## Related News

October 26, 2017

### Iman Marvian: Harnessing Quantum Mechanics for Tomorrow’s Technologies

February 11, 2016

### Building the World’s First Quantum Computer

January 06, 2016

### Grant Targets Quantum Computing's Error Control Challenge

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

