

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Matthew Becker: Designing Functionalized, Degradable Biomaterials for
Healing

September 5, 2019

An expert in organic polymer chemistry, Matthew Becker’s research is focused
on developing bioactive polymers for regenerative medicine and drug delivery

Matthew Becker has joined the faculty of the Department of Chemistry and the
Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science at Duke University.
An expert in organic polymer chemistry, Becker's research is focused on
developing bioactive polymers for regenerative medicine and drug delivery.

> Becker's approach relies on the precise placement of bioactive molecules on
> degradable polymers.

Becker's approach relies on the precise placement of bioactive molecules on
degradable polymers. After working to understand the clinical presentation of
a problem such as bone or tissue damage, Becker tailors the molecular makeup
and structure of his materials to deliver the necessary physical-chemical and
mechanical properties to address the unmet medical need.  
One of Becker's focal points is developing new degradable polymers that can be
3D-printed to create biomedical devices. Not only must these materials be able
to be reabsorbed by the body, they must also support heavy biomechanical loads
and be chemically functionalized to carry and release biomolecules to induce
healing or prevent infection. Becker's laboratory has created a library of
functional materials that addresses these issues and several have been
licensed by 21MedTech for its first clinical trials.

Another project with recent success is developing degradable materials out of
amino acids—the building blocks of our proteins. These so-called poly(ester
urea)s—or PEUs for short—are proving to overcome previous limitations in
stiffness and strength while having excellent blood and tissue compatibility
and producing no toxic byproducts. These materials were successfully used to
repair bones in a sheep model in a US Army project that ultimately seeks to
help soldiers with serious bone injuries due to high-velocity projectiles and
improvised explosive devices.

Becker's laboratory is also working with electrospun nanofibers, tissue
engineered vascular grafts, functional hydrogels to control human stem cell
differentiation, and biomaterials with high concentrations of peptides and
growth factors to trigger certain cellular responses.

Becker earned his undergraduate degree in chemistry at Northwest Missouri
State University and his PhD in organic chemistry at Washington University in
St. Louis as an NIH Chemistry Biology Interface Training Fellow. In 2003, he
moved to the Polymers Division of the National Institute of Standards and
Technology for a NRC Postdoctoral Fellowship. He joined the permanent staff in
2005 as a project leader for bioimaging and tissue engineering before moving
to The University of Akron in 2009, where he was the W. Gerald Austen Endowed
Chair in Polymer Science and Engineering.

Becker is the founder of three start-up companies—3D BioResins, 3D BioActives
and Fortem—under the holding company 21st Century Medical Technologies. He was
one awarded the Macromolecules-Biomacromolecules Young Investigator Award in
2015; was a National Finalist in Chemistry for the Blavatnik Award in 2017;
and was awarded the 2019 Carl S. Marvel Award in Creative Polymer Chemistry
from the American Chemical Society. Becker is a Kavli Fellow and a Fellow of
the Royal Society of Chemistry, the American Institute of Medical and
Biomedical Engineering, and the PMSE Division of the American Chemical
Society.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

