

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Mercury from Gold Mines Accumulates Hundreds of Miles Downstream

January 9, 2015 | By Ken Kingery

Duke University researchers have found hazardous levels of mercury hundreds of
miles downstream from Peruvian gold mines.

Researchers have determined that the health risks taken on by artisanal,
small-scale gold miners extend far beyond the miners themselves.

Based on a study of gold-mining operations in Peru, the miners’ practices not
only contaminate local soil, sediment and water resources with mercury, they
create hazardous levels of the neurotoxin in the food chain at least 350 miles
downstream.

The study, led by Heileen Hsu-Kim, professor of civil and environmental
engineering at Duke University, William Pan, professor of environmental
science and policy and the Duke Global Health Institute, and Sarah Diringer, a
Ph.D. candidate mentored by the pair, was recently published online in the
journal Environmental Science: Processes & Impacts.

The Duke team looked at the wide-reaching effects of mercury contamination
from gold-mining operations in Peru’s southern Amazon region of Madre de Dios.
However, the same mining practices are present throughout South America, as
well as in Africa and Asia.

As the price of gold has soared during the past decade, thousands of
Peruvians—mostly from the Amazon and sierra region of Cusco—have embraced
artisanal small-scale gold mining to supplement their income. Mercury is used
to bind loose flakes and bits of gold ore into hard chunks that can be more
easily extracted from soil and sediment, and then burned off with blowtorches
once the chunks are in hand.

The study found that the miners and their families are highly vulnerable to
the impacts of mercury, with limited knowledge of mining’s environmental or
human health effects. Rarely do they have adequate safeguards to limit the
release of mercury into the air, soil or water, the researchers said.

Once in river sediments, mercury is taken up by microorganisms that convert it
to a highly neurotoxic form. As other animals consume the microorganisms, the
levels of the neurotoxin accumulate in larger predators, such as carnivorous
fish, according to the study.

“We’ve known that the use of mercury presents health risks to miners and their
families, but it also releases a lot of contamination that ends up
downstream,” said Hsu-Kim. “Some of that mercury ends up in fish that other
communities depend on as part of their diets, and that risk was not documented
at all. We had heard anecdotal evidence, but this was the first scientific
study to document the actual contamination.”

In the study, Hsu-Kim, Pan and their colleagues took samples from river
sediment, water and fish at 62 sites near 17 communities over a 350-mile
stretch of the Madre de Dios River and its major tributaries. The results
showed an increase in mercury concentrations in the mining areas as well as
downstream, where concentrations in fish now exceed World Health Organization
guidelines for safe consumption for children and women of maternal age.

“The calculations were made assuming that people ate two fish meals per week,”
Hsu-Kim said. “However, we have preliminary data from household health surveys
indicating that fish consumption is actually much higher in many communities,
which could increase the body burden and exceed safety limits even for healthy
adults.”

While mercury can be dangerous to adults, the primary concern is how it can
impair neurological development in children, infants and fetuses. Because
mercury can cross the placental barrier if it is ingested by the mother, the
metal can affect the development of a baby's cardiovascular and nervous
systems.

According to the Environmental Protection Agency, impacts on cognitive
thinking, memory, attention, language and fine motor and visual spatial skills
have been seen in children exposed to the neurotoxin in the womb.

The Madre de Dios region, home to some of the Amazon’s largest remaining
swaths of virgin rainforest, is thought to host among the highest number of
mammal, bird and amphibian species in the world. Animal and plant life there
is so diverse that Peruvian law proclaims it to be the world’s “Capital of
Biodiversity.”

“We recognize that these gold mining practices are a beneficial economic
activity for families and have the potential to be environmentally
sustainable,” Pan said. “To identify pathways toward sustainability, we have
begun working with the Ministry of Health in Peru and local NGOs in Madre de
Dios to raise awareness about the impacts of mining as well as engaging
families, communities and other regional stakeholders to find mutually
beneficial solutions for the humans and the environment."

This research was supported by the Inter-American Institute for Global Change
Research (CRN3036).

# # #

CITATION: " River Transport of Mercury from Artisanal and Small-Scale Gold
Mining and Risks for Dietary Mercury Exposure in Madre de Dios, Peru,"
Diringer, S. Feingold, B. Ortiz, EJ. Gallis, JA. Araujo-Flores, JM. Berky, A.
Pan, WK. Hsu-Kim, H. Environmental Science: Processes & Impacts, Dec. 19,
2014.

DOI: 10.1039/C4EM00567H

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

