

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Gold-Plated Crystals Set New Standard for Natural Gas Detectors

April 6, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

New metamaterials-based technology could replace infrared sensors used for gas
leaks, agriculture and recycling

Materials scientists and engineers have developed a sensor that is fast,
sensitive and efficient enough to detect specific wavelengths of
electromagnetic energy while on the move. The technology could actively scan
areas for methane or natural gas leaks, monitor the health of vast fields of
crops or quickly sort plastics for recycling.

Working closely with the optoelectronic materials company SRICO, engineers
from Duke University have built a prototype detector that beats the existing
competition in size, weight, power, speed and, most importantly, cost.

The new technology relies on metamaterials—engineered structures made of
carefully designed repeating cells that can interact with electromagnetic
waves in unnatural ways. By combining seemingly simple patterns of metal with
extremely thin slices of perfect crystals, the engineers created a streamlined
device able to detect invisible infrared signatures emitted by various kinds
of gasses, plastics and other sources.

The results appeared on February 20, 2017, in the journal Optica.

“The benefit of using metamaterials is that different components required in a
detector can be combined into one feature,” said Willie Padilla, professor of
electrical and computer engineering at Duke. “That simplification gains you a
lot of efficiency.”

In a typical thermal detector, infrared light waves are absorbed and converted
into heat by a black substance, essentially soot. That heat is conducted to a
separate component that creates an electrical signal that is then read out.
This setup creates speed limitations, and only by overlaying filters or a
complex system of moving mirrors, can specific wavelengths be singled out.

The new metamaterial sensor skirts both of these issues.

Each tiny section of the detector consists of a pattern of gold sitting on top
of lithium niobate crystal. This crystal is pyroelectric, meaning that when it
gets hot, it creates an electrical charge. Like shaving a piece of cheese off
a block, engineers at SRICO use an ion beam to peel a slice of crystal just
600 nanometers thick. This technique eliminates potential defects in the
crystalline structure, which reduces background noise. It also creates a
thinner slice than other approaches, allowing the crystal to heat up more
quickly.

Ordinarily, this crystal is so thin that light would simply travel through
without being absorbed. However, researchers tailor the top layer of gold into
a pattern that combines with the properties of the crystal to cause the pixel
to absorb only a specific range of electromagnetic frequencies, removing the
need for separate filters. When the crystal heats up and generates an electric
charge, the gold then does double duty by carrying the signal to the
detector’s amplifier, eliminating the need for separate electrical leads.

“These designs allow this technology to be 10 to 100 times faster than
existing detectors because the heat is created directly by the crystal” said
Jon Suen, a postdoctoral associate in Padilla’s laboratory. “This lets us
create devices with fewer pixels and also presents the ability to sweep the
detector across an area or capture images in motion.”

“This is such a good marriage of technologies,” said Vincent Stenger, an
engineer at SRICO and coauthor of the paper. “Working with Duke has been one
of the most ideal situations I’ve had with technology transfer. We can focus
on making the material and they can focus on the device structure. Both sides
have been contributing with a clear product in mind that we’re now working on
marketing.”

The researchers can fabricate the device to detect any specific range of
electromagnetic frequencies simply by redesigning the details of the gold
pattern.

Stenger and his colleagues at SRICO have already created a single-pixel
prototype as a proof of concept. They are currently working to find funding
from industry investors or possibly a follow-on government grant.

The researchers are optimistic as their device has many advantages over
existing technologies. Its fast detection time would allow it to quickly scan
over an area while looking for methane or natural gas leaks. The simplicity of
its design makes it lightweight enough to carry into fields to assess the
health of agricultural crops.

“You could even make this into a low-cost lab instrument for spectroscopy for
medical samples,” said Padilla. “I’m not sure what the eventual price point
would be, but it’d be a lot less than the $300,000 instrument we currently
have in our laboratory.”

This research was supported by the U.S. Army Research Laboratory
(W311SR-14-C-0006).

Jonathan Y Suen, Kebin Fan, John Montoya, Christopher Bingham, Vincent
Stenger, Sri Sriram, Willie J. Padilla. “Multifunctional metamaterial
pyroelectric infrared detectors.” Optica, 2017. DOI: 10.1364/OPTICA.4.000276

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

