

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# “Meta-Mirror” Reflects Sound Waves in Any Direction

March 7, 2019 | By Ken Kingery

New device perfectly controls the angle of reflection of sound waves

Researchers at Duke University and Aalto University (Finland) have constructed
a “meta-mirror” device capable of perfectly reflecting sound waves in any
direction. The proof-of-principle demonstration is analogous to looking
directly into a mirror and only seeing the person next to you instead of your
own face.

The research appeared online on February 15 in the journal Scientific
Advances.

“When you look into an everyday mirror, the light follows the Law of
Reflection: the light must bounce off of it at the same angle that it came in
at,” said Junfei Li, a doctoral student in electrical and computer engineering
at Duke University. The same rules generally apply to sound, but “we wanted to
see if we could instead send a wave off in a different direction.”

To break the law of reflection with sound waves, the researchers had to
engineer a device that could precisely control amplitude (loudness) and speed
throughout the entire wave, which is even more difficult than it sounds.

“One way we could achieve this is by magically launching a precisely
controlled sound wave that ‘strikes’ the incoming sound wave like balls on a
pool table,” said Li. “But trying to do that would cause so much trouble that
it’s not a practical idea.”

Instead of resorting to magic, Li and his colleagues turned to
metamaterials—artificial materials that manipulate waves like light and sound
through their structure rather than their chemistry. For example, while the
particular metamaterial that the researchers designed is made out of plastic,
it’s not the properties of the plastic that are important; it’s the shapes of
the device’s features that allow it to steer sound waves in any direction.

The surface of the metamaterial looks much like a wave itself, etched with a
series of channels of various depths. Those depths are engineered to precisely
control the speed at which the sound wave reflects off various points of the
meta-mirror. Their wave-like positioning controls the sound wave’s amplitude.

“Because a soundwave carries energy, you have to give it a kick to redirect
it,” said Steve Cummer, professor of electrical and computer engineering at
Duke. “But to do this perfectly, you either have to actively redistribute the
energy along the surface of the meta-mirror, which isn’t feasible, or you have
to cleverly choose a shape where the energy distribution ends up being the
same everywhere.”

As a sound wave hits the meta-mirror, it reflects off of its curved surfaces
and interferes with itself. Between the meta-mirror’s shape and the depth of
its channels, this interference pattern results in the sound wave reflecting
in a desired direction without any of its energy being absorbed or scattered
in an unwanted direction.

In the proof-of-concept demonstration, the metamaterial device takes a
soundwave traveling directly toward it at 3,000 Hertz, a very high pitch not
dissimilar to getting a “ringing in your ears,” and perfectly reflects it at
an angle of 70 degrees.

While the prototype device is specifically tailored to one frequency and angle
of reflection, the researchers plan to pursue a dynamic device that could
change shape to reflect different frequencies in different directions. They
also plan to work on similar devices for underwater acoustics applications.

A similar device could also be created to control light waves, though its
features would have to be engineered on a much smaller scale, because light
wavelengths are shorter. Such a device would not only be able to reflect light
in different directions, however, it could also split a single wave into two
arbitrary directions.

“Not only did we figure out a way to design highly efficient metasurfaces, we
can also adapt the design for different functionalities,” said Ana Díaz-Rubio,
a postdoctoral researcher at Aalto University who led the work on the
project’s underlying theory. “These metasurfaces are a versatile platform for
arbitrary control of reflection.”

This work was supported by the Academy of Finland and by a Multidisciplinary
University Research Initiative grant from the Office of Naval Research
(N00014-13-1-0631).

“Power flow–conformal metamirrors for engineering wave reflections.” Ana Díaz-
Rubio, Junfei Li, Chen Shen, Steven A. Cummer and Sergei A. Tretyakov. Science
Advances, 2019. DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.aau7288

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

