

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Michael Tadross: Targeting Neuropharmacology with Molecular GPS Technologies

October 27, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

New faculty member Michael Tadross brings to Duke an emerging technology to
deliver drugs to specific cell types

Michael Tadross will join the Department of Biomedical Engineering at Duke
University beginning July 1, 2017. Developer of a potentially revolutionary
technology that can precisely deliver drugs to any specific cell type, Tadross
will use his breakthrough to better understand how pharmaceuticals affect the
human brain.

“Most of the neurologically active drugs prescribed today were discovered by
chance,” said Tadross. “For example, monoaminergic drugs—including selective
serotonin reuptake inhibitors, or SSRIs—are used to treat depression and are
now the number one prescribed neuropsychiatric drug in the world. Their
discovery can be traced back to a side-effect observed in a clinical trial for
a tuberculosis treatment in the 1950’s, and we still don’t have a good
understanding of how they work. We now know that they affect serotonin, but
very little about how they affect neural circuits in the brain.”

In the past decade, a new technique called optogenetics—genetically
programming cells to respond to light—has revolutionized how neural circuits
are examined. In numerous studies, neurobiologists have used optogenetics to
cause a precise group of neurons to fire or remain silent in an attempt to
understand their roles in the greater network.

But according to Tadross, much more needs to be done. Though revolutionary,
optogenetics has only scratched the surface of how neurons work. From the
standpoint of the cells being manipulated, optogenetics can be thought of as a
first-pass binary manipulation—a sledgehammer that completely silences or
activates cells. But drugs can be a lot more nuanced in their effects – indeed
they had to be.

“Drugs act simultaneously on all cells, and there would be little value in
silencing or activating the entire brain,” said Tadross.

Tadross’s goal, then, is to bridge the gap between the cell-type-specific but
binary nature of optogenetics and the molecularly nuanced, yet untargeted
nature of pharmacology.

“We’ve developed a way to take traditional drugs and deliver them to
particular cell types in the brain of a behaving animal,” said Tadross. “It’s
a wonderful opportunity to connect the two worlds in a way that could give us
new insights and lead to new targeted treatments.”

Tadross received his bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering from Rutgers
University and his MD/PhD in biomedical engineering at the Johns Hopkins
School of Medicine. He then completed a postdoc at Stanford University before
moving to the Howard Hughes Medical Institute. There, a research-dedicated
pre-faculty position allowed Tadross to focus entirely on developing his drug-
targeting technique.

The technology works by genetically programming a specific cell type to
express a sort of GPS beacon. An enzyme borrowed from bacteria, the beacon is
inert and does nothing more than sit on the cell. Nothing, that is, except
attract drugs loaded with a special homing device.

“We deliver drugs at such low doses that they might as well not be there,”
said Tadross. “But the homing device and GPS beacon are so efficient that the
concentration of the drug on the tagged cells’ surfaces rapidly accumulates to
become 1,000 times higher than anywhere else within a few minutes.”

Tadross has already demonstrated the technology’s ability in two separate
trials with mice and is now eager to put it to work in multiple collaborations
on Duke’s campus.

“Duke is a perfect fit for this,” said Tadross. “It has one of the strongest
biomedical engineering programs in the country. The potential collaborators
are perfectly aligned for this project. And my laboratory will be situated
close to my main users, the neurobiology community. We’ll be at the interface
of both the technology’s development and its use in answering biological
questions.”

Wasting no time, Tadross already has several collaborations under way with
Duke faculty members. He is collaborating with Greg Fields, a neurobiologist
working on retinal research; has submitted an R01 grant with neurobiology’s
Kaf Dzirasa aimed at understanding depression; and is formulating a
collaboration with Warren Grill, professor of biomedical engineering, on
research related to Parkinson’s disease.

Aside from the numerous collaborators, Tadross said he chose to come to Duke
because of its willingness to take risks—especially on him.

“I applied for positions well before this work was published,” said Tadross.
“Nobody knew about it, and many places wanted to wait and see how successful
it would become before investing. Duke really saw the vision right away and
aggressively pursued it. It shows that they have great vision and are willing
to take a few risks.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

