

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Michael Lynch: Bending Microbial Metabolisms to Generate New Chemicals

November 5, 2014

Genetically altering microbial metabolism to produce commercial products from
plastics to pharmaceuticals

Michael Lynch, an expert in genetic engineering and using microbes to produce
useful chemicals, has joined the Department of Biomedical Engineering at Duke
University as a tenure track assistant professor, effective November 1.
Previously the founder and chief science officer at OPX Biotechnologies, Inc.,
Lynch will continue his research into engineering microbial metabolism to be
useful in a variety of applications.

Modern science uses microbes for everything from converting plant matter into
biofuel to mass-producing pharmaceutical drugs. Lynch wants to build a
standardized system that optimizes these processes and spans the range of
industrial microbial applications. His innovation involves allowing microbial
cultures to grow at industrial scales as quickly as possible before using
genetically engineered pathways to shut down growth and channel all the
microbes’ energy toward product formation.

“The yeast that ferment sugars for wine and beer are producing ethanol through
metabolic processes that are needed to keep them alive and growing,” said
Lynch. “Only looking into processes that are required for life or growth is
very limiting. We are engineering dynamic metabolic control. Once the microbes
are grown, we can change their metabolism on demand, stop growth and do a
variety of things. We are no longer limited to processes required for growth.”

Lynch and his research team are focusing on four major applications:
bioenergy, chemicals production, new pharmaceuticals and the microbiome—the
trillions of microbial cells that live in and on every person in the world.

In the bioenergy arena, Lynch currently has a project running to convert
methane or natural gas into longer-chain fuels and higher value chemicals. The
idea is to understand the best-case scenario for biofuels—how good could they
ever be? For chemicals production, the process is being tailored to specialty
and commodity chemicals; renewable sugars or other feedstocks can be converted
into plastics, clothing or other consumer products.

Another exciting application is using microbes to produce new potential
pharmaceuticals derived from natural sources such as plants. “We hope to
rapidly produce enough of these interesting potential drugs to better
understand how they work and identify new clinical candidates more quickly,”
said Lynch.

And in the microbiome arena, Lynch is engineering microbial cells to effect
changes in our body’s microbial makeup. “We’re looking at everything from
well-understood, near-term adjustments to microbial populations to blue-sky
dreams like engineering skin microbes to make sunscreen molecules,” said
Lynch.

Before beginning this line of research and co-founding OPX Biotechnologies,
Lynch earned an undergraduate degree in anthropology as well as an
undergraduate and master’s degree in biomedical engineering from Washington
University in St. Louis. He then completed a dual MD/PhD program at the
University of Colorado.

His thesis involved work to better understand microbial biofilms and
antibiotic resistance. Along with his advisor, Lynch helped develop tools to
rapidly dissect how bacterial populations work and how cells respond and
evolve. Those tools opened the door to his current research and the founding
of OPX Biotechnologies in 2007.

In 2012, Lynch left the company to focus on the career path he would have
followed had the start-up opportunity not presented itself.

“At the end of my tenure at OPX, I spent a lot of my time not doing science,”
said Lynch of his decision to leave. “I figured the farther down that road I
went, the harder it would probably be to get back into basic research.”

Eric Toone, vice provost and director of the Duke Innovation and
Entrepreneurship Initiative, was a colleague of Lynch’s and invited him to
visit campus. After a couple of trips, Lynch was hooked. Initially joining the
biomedical engineering department in 2012 as an assistant research professor,
Lynch recently accepted a tenure-track assistant professorship and will begin
mentoring graduate students.

“Duke is a great fit for me because there are programs like the Energy
Initiative that have allowed me to work on topics with which I have recent
history and expertise, while also enabling me to return to more intensive
biomedical research,” said Lynch. “Looking back at my ambitions before
starting the company, I wanted to focus on medical applications. And here at
Duke, that’s a huge part of what happens in the biomedical engineering
department. With the medical school so close, you can’t help but bump into
people who want to do medically relevant research. It’s impossible to avoid.”

Meet our new 2014-2015 faculty members

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

