

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Microbial Communities Stay Healthy By Swapping Knowledge

August 29, 2022 | By Ken Kingery

High levels of horizontal gene transfer could help researchers engineer useful
microbiomes independent of unstable population dynamics

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have demonstrated a microbial
community phenomenon that essentially equates to teaching neighbors how to
complete necessary tasks by ripping out and sharing parts of the brain.

The process allows microbiomes to keep themselves and their environments
healthy and could help scientists create robust, bespoke microbial systems for
applications ranging from cleaning toxins from the environment to producing
biofuel and other consumer products.

The research appears online September 1 in the journal Nature Chemical
Biology.

Large, complex microbial communities live everywhere in the world, from rivers
and mountains to humans and houses. But whether comparing microbiomes on
snowcapped peaks in Asia or within the stomachs of identical human twins, the
composition of species within these communities can vary widely.

No matter how different these microbiomes may appear to be on the surface, if
they live in similar environments, they’re likely going to fill the same
functions. One way of evaluating what processes they’re carrying out is
focusing on the genes that encode the functions rather than the species
themselves.

“If you count the number of the copies of genes that encode some function,
their numbers can remain stable even if the species composition of the
community changes dramatically,” said Lingchong You, professor of biomedical
engineering at Duke. “One important route to this level of stability is
through horizontal gene transfer.”

Horizontal gene transfer is the process by which bacteria constantly share
genetic recipes for new abilities by swapping packages of genetic material
called plasmids. At a conceptual level, it’s not entirely dissimilar to
creating a copy of a collection of neurons that knows how to make lasagna,
ripping it out of your head and giving it to a friend to use.

In the new paper, You and his colleagues show that this gene transfer plays an
essential role in keeping microbiomes healthy and ensuring critical tasks are
completed. Starting with two different species of bacteria, the researchers
controlled the levels of horizontal gene transfer and showed that higher rates
led to more stable concentrations of these genes.

> “If you count the number of the copies of genes that encode some function,
> their numbers can remain stable even if the species composition of the
> community changes dramatically. One important route to this level of
> stability is through horizontal gene transfer.”
>
> lingchong you

The team then constructed a community of up to 72 bacteria swapping up to 13
different genes simultaneously and measured the genes’ stability. As with the
simpler model, the genes that were traded more frequently maintained a
steadier level within the microbiome as a whole.

“These results have been speculated about before, but never quantified within
living communities,” You said. “The other route to this level of redundancy is
to have multiple species that can perform the same function. But a high level
of horizontal gene transfer is a much more robust method to achieve the same
results.”

Put another way, a construction crew could be extremely resilient to
electricians quitting if the plumbers on site also knew how to wire a
building. But the same crew would be even more resilient if the remaining
electricians could simply transfer their expertise to anyone on the job when
needed, no matter their profession.

Moving forward, You hopes to study natural microbial communities to prove
definitively that this phenomenon is important to a microbiome’s health
outside of a laboratory. He also plans to implement this dynamic division of
labor through horizontal gene transfer in engineered microbial systems.

“There are cases where complex metabolic pathways are difficult to engineer in
a single bacterial species where it’s easier to have different populations
carrying out different steps of the process,” You said. “This study suggests
we can implement that strategy through gene transfer so that we don’t have to
worry about the specific composition of species. We can just let the community
find the best balance for itself while still knowing it will continue to get
the job done.”

This research is supported by the National Institutes of Health (R01AI125604,
R01EB031869) and the National Science Foundation (MCB-347 1937259).

CITATION: “Horizontal Gene Transfer Enables Programmable Gene Stability in
Synthetic Microbiota,” Teng Wang, Andrea Weiss, Ammara Aqeel, Feilun Wu,
Allison J. Lopatkin, Lawrence A. David, Lingchong You. Nature Chemical
Biology, Sept. 1, 2022. DOI: 10.1038/s41589-022-01114-3

Nature Link: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41589-022-01114-3

## Related News

February 17, 2022

### The Surprising Structural Reason Your Kitchen Sponge is Disgusting

August 03, 2020

### AI May Offer a Better Way to ID Drug-Resistant Superbugs

April 22, 2016

### Time Cues Help Keep Humans Looking Human

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

