

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Mikhail Nikiforov: Connecting Subcellular Disruptions to Diseases to
Discover Treatments

November 22, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

New faculty member Mikhail Nikiforov studies fundamental biological puzzles
while building bridges between disciplines to see where the pieces he’s
discovered fit

Mikhail Nikiforov will join the faculty of Duke University with a joint
professorship in the Departments of Biomedical Engineering and Pathology
beginning January 1, 2022. An expert in decoding how changes to fundamental
biological processes are tied to diseases such as melanoma and multiple
myeloma, Nikiforov will look to translate his work into clinical treatments
through new and existing collaborations at Duke.

Complex organisms such as humans are, at their core, an inseparable tangle of
countless small, individual biological processes. While the macroscopic
effects of diseases such as cancer are easy to see, the myriad of changes such
diseases cause on a subcellular level are much more difficult to tease out.

Nikiforov’s scientific pursuit is to study these basic processes in depth and
then collaborate with other disciplines to see if his findings connect to
their challenges. And more often than not, he’s focusing on the most
fundamental cellular process there is—metabolism.

“Metabolism is a very basic process that every living thing in the world has,
and cells affected by a disease such as cancer often have a very different
metabolism than healthy cells,” said Nikiforov. “But you have to understand
what is most important to both types of cells. Because while a specific enzyme
might be crucial for a cancer cell, it might also be necessary for a healthy
cell, and disrupting it would kill the person with the disease.”

One example of Nikiforov’s work involves the endoplasmic reticulum, which is a
sort of roadway within cells that transports proteins and other biomolecules.
If the system is working at highway speeds rather than neighborhood speeds,
however, the proteins being transporting don’t have enough time to fold
correctly, causing them to get stuck and create a traffic jam. This is one of
the underlying symptoms of multiple myeloma, otherwise known as bone marrow
cancer.

> “The intellectual level of potential collaborators at Duke is unparalleled.
> Both the biomedical engineering and Medical School Research are ranked third
> in the country, so I wanted to come here to be part of the best of the
> best.”
>
> mikhail nikiforov

While researchers studying fatty liver disease had also seen this sort of
symptom in action and knew how to treat it, experts from the two fields hadn’t
made the connection—at least not until Nikiforov realized that the two
symptoms were essentially one and the same.

“This is one of the best examples of how knowledge of a basic pathological
process that had already manifested in one field can be combined with
knowledge from a different field to reveal a novel method of treatment,” said
Nikiforov. “For example, causing endoplasmic reticulum stress in multiple
myeloma via alterations in lipid metabolism could perfectly complement the
effects of the drugs that induce the same stress by preventing proteins to
fold properly.”

Similarly, Nikiforov recently developed a way of measuring GTP within a cell.
Unlike its well-studied cousin ATP—a biomolecule responsible for delivering
energy to cells—GTP has received significantly less attention from the
scientific community. When it has been studied, researchers have only been
able to take average measurements of the biomolecules within a cell. This is,
as Nikiforov puts it, about as helpful as taking the average temperature of
all patients within a hospital.

But in 2017, Nikiforov’s group described intracellular sensors that could, for
the first time, detect changes of GTP and its levels of concentration in
various parts within a cell. He’s now using these sensors to see if changing
gradients of GTP within melanoma cells affect how this aggressive form of
cancer metastasizes throughout the body.

“We are once again trying to understand a basic biological process and how it
changes in cancer cells,” said Nikiforov. “And then if it does change, we can
try to understand why and find a way to inhibit the change to create a
prototype treatment.”

Another prong of Nikiforov’s research entails developing miniature 3D
environments that mimic the complexities of an organ. Dubbed organoids, these
emerging platforms can be used to culture diseases and test potential
treatments without the need for risking a patient’s health.

Getting multiple myeloma cells to grow in these organelles, however, is very
difficult. Nikiforov and colleagues have managed to culture them for up to two
weeks, which is enough time to test multiple drug combinations to see which
might work best for an individual patient.

There are, of course, many scientists working on various types of organoids,
including quite a few at Duke. The potential for collaboration is part of the
draw for Nikiforov.

“The intellectual level of potential collaborators at Duke is unparalleled,”
said Nikiforov. “Both the biomedical engineering and Medical School Research
are ranked third in the country, so I wanted to come here to be part of the
best of the best.”

After earning his master’s degree in biochemistry and molecular biology at
Lomonosov Moscow State University, Nikiforov earned his PhD in genetics at the
University of Illinois at Chicago. He then completed postdoctoral fellowships
at the University of Rochester and Princeton University. After stints on the
faculty of the University of Michigan and Roswell Park Cancer Institute, he
was a professor of cancer biology at Wake Forest School of Medicine for three
years before joining Duke.

“Even during my interviews, I was excited by the level of questions I was
being asked,” Nikiforov continued. “Obviously I knew about the excellence of
the community before, but after experiencing it for myself, I’m definitely
looking forward to having many challenging and inspiring conversations.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

