

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Mikkelsen Named Army Research Office Young Investigator

October 5, 2016

Maiken Mikkelsen, the Nortel Networks Assistant Professor of ECE and assistant
professor of physics, has won two new highly competitive research awards—the
ARO Young Investigator Program award and a $2 million NSF Emerging Frontiers
in Research and Innovation (EFRI) award

Maiken H. Mikkelsen, the Nortel Networks Assistant Professor of Electrical and
Computer Engineering and assistant professor of physics at Duke University,
has won two new highly competitive research awards—the Young Investigator
Program award from the Army Research Office (ARO) and a $2 million Emerging
Frontiers in Research and Innovation (EFRI) award from the National Science
Foundation (NSF).

The Army Young Investigator award recognizes outstanding young university
faculty members to support their research and to encourage their teaching and
research careers. Mikkelsen’ research is focused on creating hybrid nanoscale
materials to realize unique optical properties that cannot be found in the
natural world.

The ARO award will provide $150,000 over the next three years to support
Mikkelsen’s research on a project titled “Reconfigurable optical properties in
the near-IR enabled by bottom-up assembly of nanoengineered materials.” This
project will build upon a recent breakthrough where Mikkelsen set a new speed
record in ultrafast light emission by creating semiconductor quantum dots that
emit light at speeds greater than 90 gigahertz. She achieved this by
localizing light to deep subwavelength scales using localized surface plasmons
on small metal nanoparticles. The research was published in Nature Photonics
8, 835 (2014) and in Nature Communications 6, 7788 (2015).

The new ARO award will help Mikkelsen and her laboratory add real-time tunable
properties to the system and extend its abilities into the near infrared. The
project is expected to enable entirely new and extreme material responses and
pave the way for vast performance improvements of existing devices including
light sources, sensors and detectors in the near-infrared, as well as bring
devices with new functionalities, such as quantum networks, closer to reality.

With this award, Mikkelsen adds to her long list of young investigator award
recognitions, which includes the CAREER award from the National Science
Foundation, the Air Force Office of Scientific Research Young Investigator
award, the Cottrell Scholar Award from the Research Corporation for Science
Advancement and the Ralph E. Powe Junior Faculty Award.

In addition to the ARO award, the new NSF award provides $2 million over the
next four years to support a new collaboration between Mikkelsen and
colleagues at the University of Washington and Princeton University to move
toward solid-state quantum information networks operating at room-temperature.
This is part of an NSF-initiative on Advancing Communication Quantum
Information Research in Engineering (ACQUIRE) where researchers will confront
major challenges in a four-year quest to engineer a quantum communication
system on a chip.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

