

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Miroslav Pajic: Making Smart Systems That Interact with the Physical World

April 2, 2015

Connecting electronics embedded in everything around us to make the world a
better place.

Miroslav Pajic, an expert in cyber-physical systems, which merge physical
processes with information systems, will join Duke University’s Department of
Electrical and Computer Engineering as an assistant professor in July 2015.
With a history of making the electronics embedded in the world around us
connect and work together to safely interact with the physical world, Pajic
will continue his focus on biomedical and automotive environments.

From your watch to your refrigerator to your dog, it’s becoming increasingly
difficult to find things in the modern world without some sort of sensor or
microprocessor embedded into them. Even people, with medical technology like
pacemakers and neural stimulators, are becoming more digitized.

According to Pajic, just five years ago there were 30 embedded microprocessors
in the environment per person—a global average that is continuously rising. As
the trend escalates and modern systems become more complex, it’s critical to
create reliable systems that can guarantee desirable levels of service, he
says.

“We’re moving into a new era of societal changes like the introduction of
smart cities, autonomous vehicles and closed-loop medical devices,” said
Pajic, who joins the Duke faculty from the University of Pennsylvania. “But if
these systems are going to interact with and—even more challenging—control the
world around us, they need to be built in a way that is safe, reliable and
secure.”

Two examples of Pajic’s work are in the medical device and automotive
industries.

In the medical arena, one of his efforts has been to improve the design of
cardiac pacemakers to guarantee correct operation.

“Software-based control of life-critical devices has become increasingly
complex, especially in medical systems used for physiological closed-loop
control,” explains Pajic. “For example, implantable cardiac pacemakers have
over 80,000 lines of code responsible for maintaining the heart within safe
operating limits. Existing design methods caused almost 2,000,000 software-
based devices recalls in the past decade.”

Rather than the proven but simplistic models of the past few decades, he is
working to create devices that gather data and tailor their action to
individual people and situations without compromising performance and—more
importantly—patient safety, all within the constraints of the existing
technology. And for healthcare settings, he is designing networked and
interoperable medical systems that dole out the drugs patients need to control
pain, without risking an overdose.

Pajic also has his foot in the door of the autonomous automotive industry. For
driverless cars to ever be adopted, they must provide a certain level of
performance guarantees even when the system has been compromised; if the GPS
is damaged or attacked, the car must be able to adapt.

“We want autonomous cars, but we don’t want them to be safe and secure only 95
percent of the time,” says Pajic. “As these vehicles heavily rely on embedded
processors, we have to get past the point where errors are fixed by rebooting
the system and starting from scratch. If components fail or are attacked, the
system still has to work, maybe with reduced but satisfactory performance.
Those are the kinds of guarantees we want to provide.”

Pajic began his studies at the University of Belgrade in Serbia, where he
earned undergraduate and master’s degrees in electrical engineering. He then
moved for his PhD and postdoctoral work to the University of Pennsylvania,
where he was a postdoctoral researcher in the PRECISE Center (Penn Research in
Embedded Computing and Integrated System) before accepting the offer to join
the Duke engineering faculty.

“Duke is an amazing school that is very committed to research and has great
students” says Pajic. “There are many people doing great work in computer
engineering, signal processing, materials and robotics, and of course the
medical school is a big plus. It has a great environment, and while the school
is doing very well now, I think it will be even better in the future.”

## Watch Miroslav Pajic's New Faculty Lecture:

Meet our new 2014-2015 faculty members

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

