

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Mona Dai: Treating Contaminated Drinking Water in Uganda

October 8, 2014 | By Mona Dai

##### NAE Grand Challenge Scholar Profile

  * **Major:** Civil & Environmental Engineering
  * **Grand Challenge:** Providing Access to Clean Water
  * **GC Advisor:** Dr. David Schaad
  * **Project Title:** Introducing Effective Portable Water Purification to
    Rural Communities in Sub-Saharan Africa

As part of the NAE Grand Challenge Scholars Program, I am focusing on the
challenge of providing clean drinking water access to all. My research project
focuses specifically on the impact of using ceramic water filters (CWF) to
treat contaminated drinking water in Uganda.

Ceramic water filters are point-of-use water treatment systems that, while
efficient, simple and economic, are quite slow. My goal last semester was to
design a new CWF type with a faster flow rate, which I tested using a small
prototype I made following current methods and materials practiced by
factories in countries such as South Africa and Nicaragua. I traveled to
Uganda to research the depth of the drinking water problem and how useful an
innovation such as a CWF could be. In the village of Kaihura, I sampled water
sources and tested them for bacteria, collected data on the severity of
waterborne diseases and observed the installation of a new well in the
community—the most popular water solution used by the government and NGOs. The
trip was eye-opening.

> "Meeting these people, I knew I was needed. I knew I could potentially have
> the solution to improving their lives and that made me realize what enormous
> weight lies behind being an engineer."

The Grand Challenge experience has helped me better understand both the
gravity of the drinking water challenge as well as the frustration inherent to
making change. My prototype was both slow and tiring; we pounded clay powder,
combined and kneaded it by hand, and designed our own hand press and shaped
our filter with no mechanical parts. Working in Uganda, I felt frustration due
to the difference in education and health. Some villages had only one shallow
drinking water source for over 20 families. Since it could take years to
receive a well, the people drank their water unboiled despite warnings. The
community did not understand “dirty” as tiny, wiggling bacteria invisible to
the human eye. They only knew the word “dirty” in the sense of visible dust or
grime.

At the same time, they were eager to learn about new technology. They asked
for new ideas that could help make their water better because they knew
something was wrong with the quality. Meeting these people, I knew I was
needed. I knew I could potentially have the solution to improving their lives
and that made me realize what enormous weight lies behind being an engineer. I
have the ability to alter how people live their lives and I am excited to be a
part of that.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

