

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Sophomores Aim to Transform Cold Storage in India

April 30, 2018 | by Aashna Aggarwal

Student team will vie for $1 million in the Hult Prize Accelerator at Ashridge
Castle in the UK

_From Duke Today  
_

The Hult Prize, the world’s largest social entrepreneurship competition for
college students, advertises itself as the “Nobel Prize for social
entrepreneurs.”

Now a Duke team is heading to the Hult finals with an idea to address India’s
shortage of agricultural cold storage solutions by offering a novel storage
and distribution network that compensates farmers and simplifies the supply
chain.

The opportunity before them: A final prize of $1 million to fund the winning
social venture.

Having triumphed in the campus Hult competition, team mPower pitched their
business idea in Mexico City last month, winning one of 14 regional rounds
across the world. This achievement will catapult them to an 8-week summer
start up accelerator alongside 50 other teams at Ashridge Castle in London.

Traditionally, Indian farmers must sell their produce to middle men for a much
lower price than its actual market value — around 25 percent lower, by some
estimates. mPower plans to change this by purchasing produce directly from
farmers, storing the produce with its cold storage technology, and
distributing it to markets. This can create new jobs and empower existing
communities, the team explained during its pitch.

mPower’s cold storage technology is a custom solar-powered modular
refrigeration unit. Their units’ design focuses on passive cooling, reducing
energy consumption and differentiating their product from others on the
market.

Like other Duke student teams who’ve logged recent victories in energy
competitions, the mPower team packs interdisciplinary punch:

  * Saheel Chodavadia, an economics and psychology major;
  * Sherry Feng, a computer science and political science major;
  * Jason Wang, a computer science and mechanical engineering major; and
  * Harshvardhan Sanghi, a mechanical engineering major also pursuing an
    economics minor and the I&E Certificate.

mPower was especially equipped to answer this year’s challenge on energy
because of their involvement in the energy space at Duke. Sanghi and Wang both
live in the Duke Smart Home, and Sanghi regularly takes part in Duke
University Energy Initiativeprograms, is a member of Duke’s Energy Club for
undergraduates, and is working on energy access research through a Bass
Connections project.

“Although my background is technical, this year I’ve really gotten interested
in the social entrepreneurship side as it relates to energy,” Wang said. “I’ve
discovered that working in the energy space is real, meaningful work.”

Sanghi, who is from India, and Chodavadia, who has family living there, knew
firsthand of energy access challenges and inefficient agricultural processes
in that country. They decided to target this population with their Hult Prize
project.

“Energy access is broader than just giving people energy,” Sanghi said,
pointing out that their solution also addresses poverty and agriculture.
“Energy affects all aspects of a person’s life.”

Team mPower’s approach has evolved throughout the course of the competition.
After winning at Duke, they reached out to Indian farmers through Facebook
groups, seeking to better understand the real problems farmers face. Based on
this information, they made adjustments to achieve greater scalability and a
more impactful approach. They branched out from a traditional business model
scalability and added the modular refrigeration strategy.

> “Energy access is broader than just giving people energy. Energy affects all
> aspects of a person’s life.”

“We leveraged our resources at Duke, including the Innovation and
Entrepreneurship Initiative as well as the newly launched Energy Access
Project,” said Sanghi. “Our network of mentors helped us flesh out minute
details within our business model, clarify logistics, and improve the
viability of our proposed technology.”

The experience of competing at regionals was also instructive. “At regionals,
we were exposed to different perspectives and made friends from 17 other
countries who were gathered to solve similar challenges and make an impact on
the world,” said Chodavadia. “It was also extremely encouraging to hear from
the CEO of Hult Prize, Ahmad Ashkar, that our idea could be the next big
thing,” he added.

Feng noted, “The Hult Prize Regionals gave me a different perspective toward
career paths. Social entrepreneurship never felt a real pursuit to me until
the regionals. It is not a fun exercise anymore, it feels so much more real.
It made me reassess my priorities in life.”

Winning regionals came with some tradeoffs. To join the Accelerator program in
the UK and continue in the competition, team members had to reassess prior
summer commitments and internships. “It was a difficult decision to make, but
we decided that we had to take this opportunity to work on something that
could change the world and make real impact,” Feng shared.

Team members are eagerly anticipating the Accelerator program, where global
experts will lead them through an 8-week MBA course covering topics like risk
assessment, partnerships, marketing, sustainability, and launch strategy.
After this accelerator, the top 6 teams are invited to pitch at the UN for the
chance to win $1 million.

“After we posted on Facebook, several dozen farmers reached out to us to share
their stories and challenges,” said Sherry. “We want to win the $1 million to
be able to help them and millions like them whose monthly salary (equivalent
of about $60 USD) precludes current cold storage options, which can cost the
equivalent of $10 million USD.”

The team encouraged their peers to take advantage of challenges like the Hult
Prize, and to be sure to reach out to the Duke network for inputs and
feedback.

"The Hult Prize helps you gain experience in researching a problem, which is
an extremely important part of undergraduate education," said Wang. The
students also noted that many in the Duke community have helped them
throughout the process and wanted to give thanks in particular to Matt Nash,
Katherine Black, Rob Fetter, Jonathan Phillips, Aashna Aggarwal, Uzoma Ayogu,
and Rebekah Shirley.

_Are you a Duke student who wants to be alerted about student competitions in
energy and/or entrepreneurship? Sign up for email updates from the_ _Duke
University Energy Initiative_ _and/or the_ _social innovation listserv_ _at
the Duke Innovation & Entrepreneurship Initiative._

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

