

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Smith, West Named Fellows of the National Academy of Inventors

December 13, 2016

Distinction recognizes prolific spirit of innovation in creating or
facilitating outstanding, impactful inventions

The National Academy of Inventors (NAI) has elected two faculty members from
Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering to its 2016 class of Fellows:
David Smith, the James B. Duke Professor and chair of Electrical and Computer
Engineering and director of the Center for Metamaterials and Integrated
Plasmonics, and Jennifer L. West, the Fitzpatrick Family University Professor
of Engineering and associate dean for Ph.D. Education.

Founded in 2010, the NAI recognizes academic inventors for their prolific
spirit of innovation in creating or facilitating outstanding inventions that
have made a tangible impact on the quality of life, economic development and
the welfare of society. With today’s announcement, the Pratt School of
Engineering faculty now includes four members of the academy—professors Robert
Calderbank and Ashutosh Chilkoti were both elected in 2014—while Duke
University as a whole boasts seven, including new 2016 Fellow Paul Modrich,
James B. Duke Professor of Biochemistry and winner of the 2015 Nobel Prize in
Chemistry.

“There has never been doubt that our professors are amongst the finest
scholars and thinkers in the world,” said Ravi Bellamkonda, Vinik Dean of the
Pratt School of Engineering at Duke. “What’s special about the NAI honor is
that it specifically calls out those amongst us who have had a particular
impact on translating this scholarship in tangible ways to positively
influence medicine as in the case of Professor West, or stretching the limits
of what metamaterials can do, as in the case of Professor Smith. This
combination of scholarship and impact is what makes Duke Engineering so
special.”

West’s research focuses on the development of novel biomaterials and tissue
engineering to address a wide array of biological problems, from glaucoma to
cancer. Recent pursuits include creating patterned surfaces to control the
physical interactions of cultured cells and developing artificial “micro-
environments” that can mimic living tissues, making them ideal substrates for
many cell and tissue applications.

Another active area of research is using gold nanoparticles tuned to absorb
certain wavelengths of infrared light to heat and destroy cancerous tumors.
While the original nanoparticles are already in clinical trials, West recently
improved on her design by adding an extremely thin layer of hydrogels to the
surface that, when heated, lose their water content and release any molecules
(such as drugs) trapped within.

Earlier this year, West was elected to the National Academy of Engineering
“for developments in photothermal and theranostic therapies and bioabsorbed
scaffolds for tissue regeneration.”

Smith’s research focuses on the fundamental understanding of metamaterials and
their potential applications. Metamaterials are synthetic materials composed
of many individual, engineered cells that not only mimic the properties of
materials, but allow exquisite control over those properties. Metamaterial
composites can be used to mold the flow of light and electromagnetic waves,
sometimes in surprising and unconventional ways.

In 2000, Smith was the first to demonstrate a metamaterial with a negative
index-of-refraction—a substance that had been hypothesized more than thirty
years prior but had never been shown to exist. In 2006, Smith was the first to
demonstrate an electromagnetic “invisibility cloak,” a structure made possible
because of the unique properties of metamaterials. Since then, he has helped
create other applications for the technology, such as small, flat,
reconfigurable satellite antennas, systems for security imaging and wireless
power transfer devices.

With the election of the 2016 class, there are now 757 NAI Fellows,
representing 229 research universities and governmental and non-profit
research institutes. The 2016 Fellows are named inventors on 5,437 issued U.S.
patents, bringing the collective patents held by all NAI Fellows to more than
26,000.

The 2016 Fellows will be inducted on April 6, 2017, as part of the Sixth
Annual Conference of the National Academy of Inventors at the John F. Kennedy
Presidential Library & Museum in Boston, MA. U.S. Commissioner for Patents,
Andrew H. Hirshfeld will provide the keynote address for the induction
ceremony. In honor of their outstanding accomplishments, Fellows will be
presented with a special trophy, medal and rosette pin.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

