

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Nanomaterials Enable Passive Dual-Mode Heating and Cooling Device

December 2, 2020 | Elizabeth Witherspoon

Dual-mode device to heat and cool buildings could cut HVAC energy use by
nearly 20% in the U.S.

Engineers at Duke University have demonstrated a dual-mode heating and cooling
device for building climate control that, if widely deployed in the U.S.,
could cut HVAC energy use by nearly 20%.

The invention uses a combination of mechanics and materials science to either
harness or expel certain wavelengths of light. Depending on conditions,
rollers move a sheet back and forth to expose either heat-trapping materials
on one half or cooling materials on the other. Specially designed at the
nanoscale, one material absorbs the sun’s energy and traps existing heat,
while the other reflects light and allows heat to escape through the Earth’s
atmosphere and into space.

“I think we are the first to demonstrate a reversible thermal contact, which
allows us to switch between the two modes for heating or cooling,” said Po-
Chun Hsu, assistant professor of mechanical engineering and materials science
at Duke and leader of the team. “This allows the material to be movable while
still maintaining a good thermal contact with the building to either bring
heat in or let heat out.”

The results appeared online November 30, in the journal Nature Communications.

About 15% of energy consumption in the U.S., and over 30% globally, is for the
heating and cooling of buildings and responsible for 10% of global greenhouse
gas emissions. Yet, up to now, most approaches to minimize the carbon
footprint have only addressed either heating or cooling. That leaves the
world’s temperate climate zones that require both heating and cooling during
the year – or sometimes in a single 24 hours – out in the cold. In the new
paper, Hsu and his team demonstrate a device that potentially could keep us
either cozy or cool as the weather changes.

The specially designed sheet starts with a metallized polymer composite as the
base that can generate electrostatic force by applying voltage. This allows
the device to maintain contact with the building for transmitting energy while
still being able to disengage so that the rollers can switch between modes.

The cooling portion of the sheet has an ultra-thin silver film covered by an
even thinner layer of clear silicone, which together reflect the sun’s rays
like a mirror and emit mid-range infrared light. The unique properties of
these materials also convert energy into and emit mid-range infrared light,
which does not interact with the gasses in the Earth’s atmosphere and easily
passes into outer space and peform sub-ambient cooling.

When a change in weather brings the need for heating, the electrical charge
releases and the rollers pull the sheet along a track. This swaps the cooling,
reflective half of the sheet for the heat-absorbing half.

To heat the building beneath, the engineers used an ultra-thin layer of copper
topped by a layer of zinc-copper nanoparticles. By making the nanoparticles a
specific size and spacing them a certain distance apart, they trap light onto
their surface, allowing the material to absorb more than 93% of the sunlight’s
heat.

Hsu and his team see the device as something that could work with existing
HVAC systems, rather than a full replacement.

“Instead of directly heating and cooling the building, we could use a water
panel to take hot or cold water to a heat pump or boiler system,” said Hsu. “I
also imagine that with additional engineering, this could also be used on
walls, forming a sort of switchable building envelop.” said Hsu.

Moving forward, the team is working on several aspects of the design to
advance it from a prototype to one scalable for manufacturing. Among these,
explained Hsu, are concerns about the long-term wear and tear of the moving
parts and costs of the specialized materials. For example, they will
investigate whether lower-cost aluminum can substitute for the silver and are
also working on a static version that can switch modes chemically rather than
mechanically.

Despite the many obstacles, Hsu believes this technology could be an energy-
saving boon in the future. And he’s not alone.

“We’re already working with industry partners to determine the ideal locations
for deploying this technology,” said Hsu. “And because almost every climate
zone in the United States requires both heating and cooling at some point
throughout the year, the advantages of a dual-mode device such as this are
obvious.”

CITATION: “Integration of daytime radiative cooling and solar heating for
year-round energy saving in buildings.” Xiuqiang Li, Bowen Sun, Chenxi Sui,
Ankita Nandi, Haoming Fang, Yucan Peng, Gang Tan & Po-Chun Hsu. Nature
Communications, 2020. DOI: 10.1038/s41467-020-19790-x

## Related News

November 17, 2020

### Cooling Fabrics Fight Climate Change, As Well As Sweat

September 07, 2018

### Po-Chun Hsu: Engineering Nanostructured Materials to Keep You Cool

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

