

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Nanorattles Shake Up New Possibilities for Disease Detection

September 13, 2022 | By Ken Kingery

New nanoparticle shape can greatly enhance signals from multiple separate
biomarkers at once, accurately detecting head and neck cancers without
biopsies to improve global health

Researchers at Duke University have developed a unique type of nanoparticle
called a “nanorattle” that greatly enhances light emitted from within its
outer shell.

Loaded with light scattering dyes called Raman reporters commonly used to
detect biomarkers of disease in organic samples, the approach can amplify and
detect signals from separate types of nanoprobes without needing an expensive
machine or medical professional to read the results.

In a small proof-of-concept study, the nanorattles accurately identified head
and neck cancers through an AI-enabled point-of-care device that could
revolutionize how these cancers and other diseases are detected in low-
resource areas to improve global health.

The results appeared online September 2 in the Journal of Raman Spectroscopy.

“The concept of trapping Raman reporters in these so-called nanorattles has
been done before, but most platforms had difficulty controlling the interior
dimensions,” said Tuan Vo-Dinh, the R. Eugene and Susie E. Goodson
Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering and professor of chemistry
at Duke.

“Our group has developed a new type of probe with a precisely tunable gap
between the interior core and outer shell, which allows us to load multiple
types of Raman reporters and amplify their emission of light called surface-
enhanced Raman scattering,” Vo-Dinh said.

> “Our group has developed a new type of probe with a precisely tunable gap
> between the interior core and outer shell, which allows us to load multiple
> types of Raman reporters and amplify their emission of light called surface-
> enhanced Raman scattering."
>
> tuan vo-dinh

To make nanorattles, researchers start with a solid gold sphere about 20
nanometers wide. After growing a layer of silver around the gold core to make
a larger sphere (or cube), they use a corrosion process called galvanic
replacement that hollows out the silver, creating a cage-like shell around the
core. The structure is then soaked in a solution containing positively charged
Raman reporters, which are drawn into the outer cage by the negatively charged
gold core. The outer hulls are then covered by an extremely thin layer of gold
to lock the Raman reporters inside.

The result is a nanosphere (or nanocube) about 60 nanometers wide with an
architecture that resembles a rattle—a gold core trapped within a larger outer
silver-gold shell. The gap between the two is only about a few nanometers,
which is just large enough to fit the Raman reporters.

Those tight tolerances are essential to controlling the Raman signal
enhancement the nanorattles produce.

When a laser shines on the nanorattles, it travels through the extremely thin
outer shell and hits the Raman reporters within, causing them to emit light of
their own. Because of how close the surfaces of the gold core and the outer
gold/silver shell are together, the laser also excites groups of electrons on
the metallic structures, called plasmons. These groups of electrons create an
extremely powerful electromagnetic field due to the plasmons’ interaction of
the metallic core-shell architecture, a process called plasmonic coupling,
which amplifies the light emitted by the Raman reporters millions of times
over.

> “With how powerful the signal enhancement of the nanorattles is, we thought
> we could make a simple test that could be easily read by anybody at the
> point-of-care.”
>
> tuan vo-dinh

“Once we had the nanorattles working, we wanted to make biosensing devices to
detect infectious diseases or cancers before people even know they’re sick,”
Vo-Dinh said. “With how powerful the signal enhancement of the nanorattles is,
we thought we could make a simple test that could be easily read by anybody at
the point-of-care.”

In the new paper, Vo-Dinh and his collaborators apply the nanorattle
technology to a lab-on-a-stick device capable of detecting head and neck
cancers, which appear anywhere between the shoulders and the brain, typically
in the mouth, nose and throat. Survival rate for these cancers have hovered
between 40 and 60 percent for decades. While those statistics have improved in
recent years in the United States, they have gotten worse in low-resource
settings, where risk factors such as smoking, drinking and betel nut chewing
are much more prevalent.

“In low-resource settings, these cancers often present in advanced stages and
result in poor outcomes due in part to limited examination equipment, lack of
trained healthcare workers and essentially non-existent screening programs,”
said Walter Lee, professor of head and neck surgery & communication sciences
and radiation oncology at Duke, and a collaborator on the research.

“Having the ability to detect these cancers early should lead to earlier
treatment and improvement in outcomes, both in survival and quality of life,”
Lee said. “This approach is exciting since it does not depend on a pathologist
review and potentially could be used at the point of care.”

> “Having the ability to detect these cancers early should lead to earlier
> treatment and improvement in outcomes, both in survival and quality of life.
> This approach is exciting since it does not depend on a pathologist review
> and potentially could be used at the point of care.”
>
> walter lee

The prototype device uses specific genetic sequences that act like Velcro for
the biomarkers the researchers are looking for — in this case, a specific mRNA
that is overly abundant in people with head and neck cancers. When the mRNA in
question is present, it acts like a tether that binds nanorattles to magnetic
beads. These beads are then concentrated and held in place by another magnet
while everything else gets rinsed away. Researchers can then use a simple,
inexpensive handheld device to look for light emitted from the nanorattles to
see if any biomarkers were caught.

In the experiments, the test determined whether or not 20 samples came from
patients that had head and neck cancer with 100% accuracy. The experiments
also showed that the nanorattle platform is capable of handling multiple types
of nanoprobes, thanks to a machine learning algorithm that can tease apart the
separate signals, meaning they can target multiple biomarkers at once. This is
the goal of the group’s current project funded by the National Institutes of
Health.

“Many mRNA biomarkers are overly abundant in multiple types of cancers, while
other biomarkers can be used to evaluate patient risk and future treatment
outcome,” Vo-Dinh said. “Detecting multiple biomarkers at once would help us
differentiate between cancers, and also look for other prognostic markers such
as Human Papillomavirus (HPV), and both positive and negative controls.
Combining mRNA detection with novel nanorattle biosensing will result in a
paradigm shift in achieving a diagnostic tool that could revolutionize how
these cancers and other diseases are detected in low-resource areas”.

This study is supported by the National Institutes of Health
(R01-DE030455-01A1).

CITATION: “Machine Learning Using Convolutional Neural Networks for SERS
Analysis of Biomarkers in Medical Diagnostics,” Joy Qiaoyi Li, Priya Vohra
Dukes, Walter Lee, Michael Sarkis, Tuan Vo-Dinh. Journal of Raman
Spectroscopy, Sept. 2, 2022. DOI: 10.1002/jrs.6447

https://analyticalsciencejournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/jrs.6447

## Related News

July 21, 2020

### Silver-Plated Gold Nanostars Detect Early Cancer Biomarkers

May 12, 2020

### Silver Nanocubes Make Point-of-Care Diagnostics Easier to Read

August 17, 2017

### Gold Nanostars and Immunotherapy Vaccinate Mice Against Cancer

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

