

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Joins Peers on New National Quantum Initiative Advisory Committee

September 2, 2020

Committee tasked with counseling the White House on ways to ensure continued
American leadership in quantum information science

Duke University researchers Jungsang Kim and Christophe Monroe will join peers
from the national labs, universities, federal agencies and industry on a new
National Quantum Initiative Advisory Committee (NQIAC) recently announced by
the U.S. Department of Energy and the White House Office of Science and
Technology Policy (OSTP). The NQIAC’s mission is to “counsel the
Administration on ways to ensure continued American leadership in quantum
information science” and was established by Executive Order as part of the
bipartisan National Quantum Initiative Act of 2018.

Duke has a long tradition of research leadership in quantum technologies,
beginning with Kim, a professor of electrical and computer engineering,
physics and computer science, building its first quantum information lab in
2004. Over the next decade and a half, Duke has added more than a half-dozen
experts in quantum technology, attracted tens of millions of dollars in
research funding and, in 2021, is set to open the Duke Quantum Center—a
facility dedicated to building bespoke quantum computers for individual
research projects to quickly advance the field.

“I am humbled to be serving on this committee charged with a crucial role of
advising the US government to ensure US leadership in this important and
growing field,” said Kim. “I look forward to working with my esteemed
colleagues in this committee to help US maintain technical and strategic
leadership in QIS.”

Kim has spearheaded a long-running and fruitful collaboration with Monroe at
the University of Maryland – College Park, who will join Duke’s faculty next
year as a professor of physics and electrical and computer engineering. Over
the past decade, Kim and Monroe have led quantum computing programs with over
$100 million in research funding from the NSF, Department of Defense and the
Intelligence Community. In 2016, the pair co-founded a company to
commercialize their quantum computing ion trapping technology called IonQ,
which has attracted more than $80 million in investor funding.

In tandem with the NQIAC announcement, DOE and OSTP announced up to $625
million over five years for the establishment of five quantum research
centers, delivering on the National Quantum Initiative Act’s call to stand up
new QIS centers nationwide. Duke will join one such center led by Lawrence
Berkeley National Laboratory dubbed the Quantum Systems Accelerator (QSA). As
a leading node in QSA, the Duke Quantum Center will lead the design and
fabrication of quantum computer systems based on trapped ions, which are the
most reliable systems currently being developed.

## Related News

September 01, 2020

### Duke Joins $115 Million Quantum Systems Accelerator

August 20, 2020

### Chris Monroe: Realizing Ion-Trap Quantum Computers to Solve Unsolvable
Problems

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

