

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Regenerating Damaged Nerves with "Pac-Man" Cells

June 12, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

Innovative approach nearly as good as surgical nerve transplant

Biomedical engineers have found an unlikely ally in the struggle to regrow
damaged nerves—the foot soldiers of the body's immune system.

Macrophages are known as the Pac-Man of the immune system and form the body's
first line of defense against invasion—they indiscriminately engulf and eat
most anything deemed a dangerous trespasser, whether it's a bacterium or
cellular debris from deceased tissue. Recent research, however, has shown that
some macrophages also promote healing.

In a study appearing online the week of June 12 in the _Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences_ , researchers from Duke University have shown
that summoning these pro-healing macrophages can greatly help regrow severed
nerves in rats. The approach comes close to equaling the current best
treatment—a surgical transplant using a nerve stripped from another part of
the patient's body.

"There's been a long-held view that the best way to regrow severed nerves is
to provide all sorts of matrix and growth proteins to coax repair," said Ravi
Bellamkonda, professor of biomedical engineering and Vinik Dean of the Pratt
School of Engineering at Duke. "We've completely shifted that view by finding
new players who have remained behind the scenes. We believe this approach will
also have a major impact on regenerative medicine, even beyond this specific
application."

The peripheral nervous system includes nerves that run from the spinal cord to
the rest of the body. It connects and controls movements, the digestive
system, heart, lungs and other organs. When these relatively long cells—which
can stretch for a meter or more—are damaged or severed, the injury is not
easily healed.

The current standard of care, called an autograft, involves surgically
removing a less important nerve, like the one running down the back of the
calf, and grafting it into the damaged area. But the treatment has several
drawbacks. A sensory neuron replacing a motor neuron is not a perfect
replacement, painful neuromas can occur at the healing site, the patient loses
the function of another nerve and, in the case of extensive injuries, there
are only so many semi-disposable nerves in the body to harvest.

Researchers have long been working on an alternative approach using "nerve
bridges" to span these gaps. The idea is to introduce a tube filled with
growth factors and other goodies across the gap to coax the regrowth of the
existing nerve, like luring a dog out of a hiding place with treats. But
despite efforts to find the optimal combination of tube material, growth
factors, proteins and other helpers, nothing has come close to matching the
autograft's success.

Bellamkonda and his group were travelling down this same road until some
salamanders lost their tails.

"We saw a study showing that the early presence of macrophages were vital to a
salamander's ability to regenerate its tail," said Nassir Mokarram, assistant
research professor of biomedical engineering at Duke. "We also knew that rare
instances of nerve regeneration were accompanied by a surge of these cells
right after the injury occurred. Those two observations gave us the
inspiration to see if the same idea could be applied with nerve bridges."

In 2012, Bellamkonda and Mokarram showed that nerve regeneration could be
increased in rats by forcing macrophages to become the pro-healing variety
that secrete healing compounds. In the new paper, the researchers take their
work a step further. Instead of issuing orders to make mature macrophages
switch roles, they filled the nerve bridge with a biological signal shown to
attract younger, undifferentiated cells destined to become pro-healing
macrophages.

"Instead of retraining the demolition and cleanup crew, we hired a new
workforce with a future in construction," said Mokarram. "The results were
significantly better. This is the closest anyone has ever been to equaling the
efficacy of an autograft, and we did it with nothing more than a tube and the
recruitment of the body's own immune system."

The researchers next plan to test the approach using a specialized nanofiber
material they developed that has already proven better at bridging nerve
endings than the tubes used in this proof-of-concept study.

"We're the first group to prove this immunological approach to healing works
with nerves in rodents," said Mokarram. "We think this work will open a path
to using similar methods in the much more complex and difficult arenas of the
spinal cord and brain."

This work was done in close collaboration with Emory University cell biologist
Arthur English and supported by the National Institutes of Health
(7R01NS093666, 5R01NS065109).

CITATION: "Immunoengineering Nerve Repair," Nassir Mokarram, Kyle Dymanus,
Akhil Srinivasan, Johnathan Lyon, John Tipton, Jason Chu, Arthur English, Ravi
V. Bellamkonda. PNAS, June 12, 2017. DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1705757114

###

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

