

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# A "Nest" for Your Lawn

April 21, 2016

Duke Smart Home experiment makes efficient work of lawn care

What if there were a service like Nest for your lawn?

That’s the goal of a new “Smart Lawn” experiment at Duke University’s Smart
Home, headed by Amilcare Porporato, the Addy Professor of Civil and
Environmental Engineering, and his postdoctoral researcher, Jun Yin. A network
of sensors in the ground gather data, complemented by a tower taking
atmospheric measurements. The setup’s shared hardware monitors water, carbon,
and energy fluxes through evapotranspiration, rainfall, sun radiation, and
carbon uptake by the vegetation.

Launched in November 2015, the project is a collaboration with Jim Gaston,
associate dean for undergraduate research, Lydia Olander, director of the
Ecosystem Services Group of the Nicholas Institute, and Mark Schmidt,
principal scientist at John Deere. The system is designed, on a small scale,
to determine what Duke’s live-in student laboratory needs for its lawn. It
will inform the optimal management of the Smart Home’s water cistern,
irrigation systems, types of crops and lawns, and fertilization schedule. The
goal is to optimize the retention of nutrients and the use of water and other
materials and maximize the related ecosystem services.

On a large scale, the findings will help calibrate and set parameters for
computer models to predict the precise needs of lawns and farmland in North
Carolina and in general for the Southeast US where irrigation water needs are
particularly variable thought the growing seasons. And if these predictions
can be made on a small enough set of variables that can be easily monitored, a
system like Nest for your lawn would not be far away.

“One of our goals is to see how much water is needed for the lawn and how much
rain harvested by the cisterns can be used for the Smart Home’s laundry and
toilets,” said Porporato. “Since the climate changes unpredictably we need
long-term measurements and models that account for this uncertainty. This is a
necessary step to use sustainably soil and water resources and reduce the
impact of our buildings on the environment. It is exciting to work at the Duke
Smart Home for this research as it is also a great opportunity to interact
with students interested in these specific problems of water resources,
environmental engineering and sustainability.”

And if you’re wondering how the Smart Home’s lawn is doing at this very
instant, you can check out real-time measurements of carbon dioxide, soil
moisture, rain, wind speed, net radiation, net radiation corrected by wind
speed, temperature/humidity at three levels, soil heat flux and soil
temperature.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

