

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# A New Class of Entrepreneur

April 1, 2018

Students and researchers tackle new challenges through their own startups

**The Undergraduate Entrepreneur:** **Samuel Fox’s Student-Project- Turned-
Startup Improves Patient Mobility**

Not many students can say they formed a successful company before earning
their undergraduate degree. But Samuel Fox, a biomedical engineering student
at Duke University, did just that when he founded Zephyr Mobility before his
senior year of college.

Fox was a junior at Duke when he was introduced to BME professor Kevin Caves.
At the time, Fox was hoping to design a tool that would make it easier for
people in wheelchairs to shower, and he thought that Caves, who taught the
“Devices for People with Disabilities” design course at Duke, would offer him
valuable feedback. They discussed the idea before Caves put Fox in touch with
Laura Juel, an occupational therapist at Lenox Baker Hospital, to give him a
better idea about the needs of patients and caretakers.

Through their discussion, Fox learned that safely moving patients in and out
of bed was a major issue for healthcare workers, as the current mobility
devices are slow and often require two or more caretakers to use. Their
discussion gave Fox an idea—what if he could create a tool that could safely
move patients out of bed and place them into a wheelchair, all without putting
the caretakers under physical strain? Fox quickly changed his initial
wheelchair design, opting instead to create a device that would safely and
effectively solve this problem. To further pursue his idea, Fox formed Zephyr
Mobility, drawing on the expertise of BME faculty to aid him in his efforts.

“My BME advisor, Professor Robert Malkin, was the first person I went to for
advice, and he helped me plan an ambitious development strategy,” says Fox, a
senior in BME. “He continually encouraged me that I was moving in the right
direction.”

Unlike current devices on the market which hoist patients into the air, Fox
designed a device that scoops an air cushion beneath the patient’s body, which
then slides them laterally from the bed to the wheelchair. According to Fox,
this method is not only more comfortable for the patient, but also less likely
to malfunction—and it doesn’t physically strain the caregivers.

After building his proof-of-concept design in the Foundry—an interdisciplinary
student workspace sponsored by the Pratt School of Engineering—Fox entered the
Duke Startup Challenge and received the 2017 Duke BME Prize offered through
the competition. The prize provided Fox with $5,000 to turn his prototype into
a field-testable device.

Fox also began to collaborate with Bill Walker, Duke Engineering’s first
Mattson Family Director of Entrepreneurial Ventures. “Bill had a
transformative impact on the project, bringing his huge wealth of knowledge
and network to help me,” says Fox. “He’s meeting with me as often as I need it
to give me lots of advice on every topic.”

With Walker’s help, Fox has pitched his company to potential investors at the
Melissa & Doug Entrepreneurs Demo Day event in Connecticut, where he raised
nearly $30,000 in funding. He also pitched his design at an Innovation Jam at
the Duke University Medical Center, and is currently nearing an agreement for
a collaboration with Duke Health, which would give him access to facilities
and nurses to field-test his product.

While Fox recognizes that starting a company is challenging, he is thankful
for the support undergraduate students have to pursue entrepreneurship. “The
big barrier in healthcare startups is getting access to the system and
communicating with clinicians,” says Fox. “Duke has really made it easy to do
that by encouraging connections between engineering and medicine.

“This experience has made me realize how important it is to seek out problems
that you think really matter,” he says. “I encourage other students to
experiment with their ideas as early as possible and get advice from anyone
they can, because everyone in BME wants to help curious, energetic students
succeed.”

**Entrepreneurial Insight Lucinda Camras’s Startup Aims to Fight Glaucoma**

Lucinda Camras was 19 years old when her father asked her if she could help
him design a new device to help treat glaucoma. For some, this would be an
unusual request—but not for Camras, where invention was part of her family
lineage. Her father, Carl, discovered what is now the first-line drug therapy
in glaucoma and her grandfather, Marvin, invented magnetic tape recording and
is in the Inventors Hall of Fame.

Together, Camras and her father created the Camras Shunt, a device designed to
improve the success rate of glaucoma surgery by relieving eye pressure in a
controlled and predictable manner. During her time as a biomedical engineering
PhD student at Duke University, she co-founded Camras Vision to develop and,
one day, commercialize the Camras Shunt.

“Glaucoma causes irreversible blindness because it puts pressure on the optic
nerve. The only way to treat the disease is by reducing the pressure inside
the eye via medication and/or surgery,” says Camras. “Unfortunately,
medications may not sufficiently lower the eye pressure; and the more
aggressive surgeries to achieve low pressures are unpredictable with high
complication rates and, if successful, may only last 3–5 years.”

Instead, the Camras Shunt drains to a new area of the eye to avoid the major
source of device failure over time. It also has an adjustable component that
allows the eye pressure to be predictably manipulated non-invasively in the
clinic. This feature of the Camras Shunt ensures that the eye pressure is
sufficiently lowered to stop future vision loss.

“My father was a busy academic and I was still an undergrad, so I didn’t have
the time or knowledge to commercialize a device,” says Camras. “Also, we knew
that this device would require more research, so my original plan was to go to
grad school and develop the device as part of my PhD thesis. When I came to
Duke, it became clear that, since Duke did not own the intellectual property,
I would have to do something else for my thesis.”

Although Camras was unable to use the Camras Shunt as her thesis, her PhD
advisor, Duke BME’s Fan Yuan, supported her interest in entrepreneurship
outside of her thesis work. Through this process, Camras met and worked with
Dr. Bruce Klitzman, an associate professor of surgery who is himself an
entrepreneur, and Drs. Sanjay Asrani and Rand Allingham, clinicians in the
Duke University Eye Center, who helped Camras apply for small business grants
and refine the design of the shunt. While taking the Program for Entrepreneurs
course at Duke, Camras met MBA student Robert Alfaro, who was interested in
commercializing her device. Together they co-founded Camras Vision, named to
honor Camras’s father, who passed away in 2009.

After graduating from Duke with her PhD in biomedical engineering in 2013,
Camras went to work full-time as the Chief Scientific Officer at Camras
Vision, with Alfaro serving as the company’s President/Chief Financial
Officer. They were later joined by Ray Krauss, a successful executive in the
medical device industry, who became their CEO.

Today, Camras and her team have received more than $2.5 million in small
business grants from the National Science Foundation and National Eye
Institute to develop the Camras Shunt. The company has also raised millions
from investors. With these achievements, Camras is optimistic about the impact
her decade of hard work will have. “You really need to be your own champion.
No one will care as much for what you are doing as you,” says Camras. “Saving
sight is certainly something worth championing.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

