

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# New Program at Duke to Embed Ethics in Engineering, Computer Science
Education

February 14, 2019

An interdisciplinary ethics program will offer Duke students a framework for
navigating the challenges posed by advanced technologies

Some of most exciting areas of technological research also generate complex
ethical challenges: genetic engineering, artificial intelligence and machine
learning, privacy and data science, autonomous systems, energy and new
materials discovery are some of the field’s most popular—and most
controversial—areas of study.

To prepare students to evaluate tough issues in tech and make responsible
professional decisions, Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering is
launching a new program that will embed ethics education across the
engineering and computer science curricula.

The Lane Family Ethics in Technology Program, established with a three-year,
$300,000 commitment from Grayson and David Lane, will support faculty-led
course content, extracurricular activities and an annual symposium focused on
ethics in technology.

> "We want Duke Engineers to think not only about the development of new
> technologies, but also about their context, and how they can best serve
> society."
>
> RAvi Bellamkonda  
> Vinik Dean of Engineering

“We want Duke Engineers to think not only about the development of new
technologies, but also about their context, and how they can best serve
society,” said Ravi Bellamkonda, the Vinik Dean of the Pratt School of
Engineering. “Emerging technologies have powerful consequences, and our goal
is to prepare thoughtful leaders who can help realize their potential for good
and minimize unintended harm.”

The program draws on a deep well of expertise across Duke University, with an
interdisciplinary oversight committee composed of faculty members from
Engineering, Law, Medicine, Divinity, Sociology, Computer Science and beyond.

Led by senior associate dean of engineering George A. Truskey, the committee
will invite engineering and computer science faculty to submit proposals to
design course materials, software, experiences and modules that incorporate
ethics. The committee will evaluate the proposals, select the strongest for
funding, and serve as coaches, in a collaborative effort to embed ethics
content into relevant courses.

“The increasing reality is that students will encounter significant ethical
issues in the future of their engineering practices. We have not traditionally
and increasingly must explicitly prepare students to thoughtfully and
effectively navigate these challenging issues by integrating ethics into their
core engineering curriculum,” said committee member Nita Farahany, who, as
director of Duke’s Science and Society Program, is helping to develop an
academic program that integrates Ethics, Policy, and Computer Science. “The
Lane Family Ethics in Technology Program is truly exciting opportunity to
prepare students to gain specific knowledge of the ethical standards and
values that are integral to an engineer’s professional life.”

Suzanne Shanahan, the Nannerl O. Keohane Director of the Kenan Institute for
Ethics, is also on the oversight committee. Together with Duke Engineering
First-year Experience Director Ann Saterbak, Shanahan received funding for a
Bass Connections project that marries ethics to engineering in EGR 101, the
first-year design class required of all engineering students. “Engineering
challenges—from access to clean water, to securing cyberspace, to improving
urban infrastructure, to the development of new communication technologies—all
raise thorny ethical questions. An ability to deftly navigate complex ethical
dilemmas and trade-offs should be a foundational element of any engineering
education, but rarely is,” said Shanahan. “The Lane Family Ethics in
Technology Program represents a wonderful opportunity for Duke to become a
national leader in integrating normative analysis and ethical decision-making
into its engineering and computer science curriculum.”

> "If society questions the purpose and motivations of companies that supply
> technology solutions, then adoption will slow or stop, and that’s a missed
> opportunity to influence the world in a positive way."
>
> DAVID LANE

Donor David Lane agrees. “The confluence of many world-class schools and
institutes at Duke makes it a unique place to look at difficult but timely
discussions about how society should function,” he said. “Duke students will
be leaders in the future, so it’s critical that they develop an ethical
framework today, and are able to implement it—especially as they move into key
leadership positions in business, in government, and at nonprofits and other
organizations.”

In making its gift, said Lane, his family wanted to ensure that people around
the world continue to benefit from new technology. “Ethics and morals are key
components in ensuring the longevity and global adoption of technology,” said
Lane. “If society questions the purpose and motivations of companies that
supply technology solutions, then adoption will slow or stop, and that’s a
missed opportunity to influence the world in a positive way.”

A workshop will be held in March 2019 to discuss ways to integrate ethics into
engineering and computer science classes and identify potential courses for
supporting ethics modules, according to Truskey. Students can expect to
experience embedded ethical content in grant-awarded classes beginning in the
fall.

More News

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

