

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Maria Gorlatova: Creating an Intelligent Internet of Things

September 6, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

New faculty member Maria Gorlatova is distributing data processing across
connected devices to make them smarter, smaller and more efficient

Maria Gorlatova has joined the faculty in the Department of Electrical and
Computer Engineering at Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering. With
both industry and academic experience making connected devices smarter, more
secure and more responsive, Gorlatova adds a new and exciting dimension to
Duke Engineering’s growing expertise in developing tomorrow’s technologies.

After earning bachelor’s and master’s degrees in electrical engineering at the
University of Ottawa, Gorlatova completed her doctorate at Columbia University
in the same discipline. She then spent stints at IBM and D.E. Shaw Research
leading a custom Anton supercomputer design and development program before
joining Princeton University’s EDGE Lab in 2016.

For the past few years, Gorlatova has had her head firmly in the fog, where
she plans to keep it while forming new collaborations at Duke.

“Fog computing or edge computing is related to cloud computing,” said
Gorlatova. “The difference is that instead of sending tons of data up to the
cloud to be processed, we distribute certain components of that computing
between the smaller devices, processors and gateways on the ground—the ones
that are all around us all the time.”

One way Gorlatova is pursuing these goals is by bringing advanced machine
learning techniques currently relegated to large data centers to the
processors inside distributed devices that pervade the modern world. Rather
than having smart home systems and wearable devices simply record data, this
will allow them to actually respond to the data and provide a more customized,
predictive and interactive experience. She has also investigated how much
energy kinetic-energy-harvesting devices could gather to power other wearable
devices.

Another arena Gorlatova studies is augmented reality. Unlike virtual reality,
which puts the user into a new virtual environment, augmented reality puts
virtual items into the user’s existing environment. For example, Gorlatova
says that augmented reality glasses could let people visualize wireless
connectivity in a space or display information about the endangered aye-ayes
while on tour at the Duke Lemur Center.

Gorlatova’s specific work with AR is large in both scope and ambition. She is
currently exploring a range of approaches for improving AR experiences with
fog computing, including making the experiences more adaptive and more secure
while enabling advanced communication and networking support for them. In one
specific example, she’s trying to make AR devices smart enough to know where
to place holograms in the user’s field of vision so as to not obstruct
important objects.

“My research is very experimental and deals with multiple layers of both
hardware and software,” said Gorlatova. “My goal is to make these devices
lighter, smarter and more energy-efficient. Rather than having fixed
functional designs, I want the devices to train themselves to adapt to their
environment and their particular user’s needs for a new level of performance.”

In the classroom, Gorlatova says she is looking forward to mentoring the high
caliber of undergraduate students Duke attracts, and loves enabling their
achievements. She has had many mentees join top technology companies,
including Microsoft, AT&T and Oracle, and helped one student earn a graduate
fellowship at Stanford University and another receive the Columbia
University’s Department of Electrical Engineering Award for Achievements in
Research—the top undergraduate research award given by the department.

Besides mentoring top students and forming new collaborations with Duke’s ECE
and computer science faculty, Gorlatova says she looks forward to working with
Duke’s Office of Information Technology, which forms collaborations with Duke
faculty to test new ideas on real-world data and technology deployments.

“Duke’s IT department is the most innovative I have ever personally
encountered,” said Gorlatova. “The way they engage with researchers is
invaluable.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

