

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# New Undergrad Certificate Offers Experience in Materials Science and
Engineering

July 15, 2021 | Elizabeth Witherspoon

Duke’s newest undergraduate certificate program covers fundamentals at the
intersection of physics, chemistry and engineering

Responding to a substantial and rising interest in materials science and
engineering among undergraduates, the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical
Engineering & Materials Science will begin offering a Certificate in Materials
Science & Engineering this fall. This option will formalize, guide and further
expand undergraduate offerings at Duke University for students who wish to
prepare for careers or graduate work in areas such as energy harvesting and
conversion, devices for information storage and processing, polymers,
biomedical technologies, structural materials and environmental impacts.

Like the interdisciplinary field itself, the certificate’s course offerings,
faculty and even students will span the intersection of physics, chemistry and
engineering.

“The purpose of the certificate is to offer students a rigorous, in-depth
exposure to the key scientific and engineering fundamental principles of
materials science and engineering,” explained the certificate advisor Olivier
Delaire, associate professor of mechanical engineering and materials science
(MEMS). “We encourage students from either the Pratt School of Engineering or
Trinity College of Arts & Sciences who are interested in these topics to
enroll.”

> _“The certificate will offer students a rigorous, in-depth exposure to the
> scientific and engineering fundamental principles in the broad set of core
> disciplines of materials science and engineering.”_

To earn the certificate, a student must complete seven courses from three
categories: two required centerpiece courses; four electives, one of which
must be outside the student’s major department; and a humanities or social
science course approved on an individual basis. Students must satisfy all
prerequisites before enrolling in any of the listed courses. Successful
completion of the certificate will appear on the student’s academic
transcript.

One of the centerpiece courses, ME 412 (Chem 512) Modern Materials, taught by
MEMS Associate Professor and Associate Chair Christine Payne, is both
comprehensive and fun. It examines the underlying molecular details that give
materials their specific properties.

"We emphasize photovoltaics, polymers, magnetic materials and biocompatible
ceramics. Each module begins with an overview of applications, economics and
history of the material. Then we work towards an understanding of the
fundamental physics and chemistry that leads to the unique properties of each
material with a focus on quantum mechanics and statistical mechanics," said
Payne.

For the four electives, students may choose from a long list of courses from
engineering, chemistry and physics. They can delve into polymers,
photovoltaics, computational materials science, metallic structures, advanced
biomaterials, nanophotonics and more.

“This really is an exciting opportunity for our undergraduates, both for those
planning to go straight into an industry job or on to a master’s or PhD
program following graduation,” added Don Bliss, director of undergraduate
studies in MEMS. “A number of our best graduates have continued in this field,
either through graduate study or employment in the materials industry.”

Certificate in Materials Science & Engineering

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

