

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# A New Classroom Strategy: Flipped+

November 15, 2021

Duke ECE faculty members take advantage of the Wilkinson Building’s connected
classrooms to innovate graduate-level programming

It’s not exactly a magical portal connecting a country manor to the forest of
Narnia, but the pass-through door between classrooms 126 and 130 in Duke
Engineering’s Wilkinson Building has certainly allowed some interesting new
things to happen this semester in ECE 551D: Programming, Data Structures, and
Algorithms in C++.

ECE 551 is the introductory programming course that most first-year ECE
master’s students take, and the newest cohort occupies both learning spaces,
participating in a highly tailored educational experience that has come to be
called “Flipped+.”

“The best approach to teaching and learning has never been for the professor
to stand at the head of the room and lecture while the students take notes and
try to memorize information,” said Duke ECE Professor of the Practice Andrew
Hilton, who co-teaches the course with Professor of the Practice Genevieve
Lipp. “In a flipped classroom, students consume the relevant information
outside of class, then ask questions and get help during class time. We’ve
been using that format for a while.”

But last year, Lipp and Hilton needed to adapt the flipped classroom model in
order to offer the course online. They were concerned that students might not
be able to raise questions effectively in an online format, so the instructors
asked each student to submit a question in advance of every class. Teaching
assistants organized the submitted questions by topic, and the instructors
delivered mini-lectures in the main Zoom room to augment students’
understanding of tricky topics, while the TAs answered individual questions in
breakout rooms.

The instructors thought the new format was a very effective evolution to
flipped, and wanted to keep it this year—but doing so required a rather
specific space. Fortunately, the new Wilkinson Building had been designed with
two connected learning spaces that exactly fit the bill. Now, when Lipp and
Hilton announce the mini-lecture topics at the beginning of class, there’s an
initial shuffle between rooms as students decide whether to hear the mini-
lecture or head next door to work on programming problems or seek additional
help.

“Our strategy has a lot in common with ‘just-in-time teaching,’” said Lipp.
“In that model, the students consume some information and complete a quiz
prior to class, and the results of the quiz determine the lecture topics. But
we’re putting more of the onus on the students to proactively identify what
they have questions about.”

If students constantly evaluate their own progress to figure out where the
gaps in their understanding exist, said Lipp, the instructors can design
educational experiences that are tailored to fill those gaps.

Flipped+ doesn’t change the fact that the class requires students to absorb
and synthesize a huge body of programming concepts in a single semester,
though. “The course is very fast paced, which makes it difficult to know if
you fully understand a concept before the next set of concepts are brought
on,” said first-year master’s student Amanda Breton, who said that though she
enjoys the split classroom, she wishes that the course spanned two semesters
instead of one.

“The course is crazy intense,” Hilton acknowledged. “But I think we’ve got a
cool new thing going on in Pratt—I think we’ve found an interesting middle
ground and a really interesting use of the new classroom space.”

Watch Lipp and Hilton Explain How to Devise an Algorithm in 7 Steps

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

