

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# New First-Year Design Course, Space Debut

August 24, 2017

Program part of new initiative designed to give all Duke Engineering students
project- and problem-based experiences right from the start

Duke Engineering is debuting a new hands-on design course for first-year
students as well as a 5,000-square-foot dedicated design lab this academic
year.

Led by nationally recognized engineering educator Ann Saterbak and assistant
professor of the practice Sophia Santillan, the first-year design course
brings students together in teams to create solutions to real-world design
challenges provided by community partners.

The new course, piloting with 50 students this fall and soon to be part of
each Duke Engineering student’s experience, builds on existing first-year
hands-on design opportunities at Pratt including the Engineering Innovation
course in mechanical engineering and the Engineering the Planet class in civil
engineering.

The class is among a trio of new courses piloting in 2017-18 that will give
all Duke Engineering students early experience in data science, computing and
engineering design.

WATCH A VIDEO ABOUT THE NEW COURSE:

  

READ AN INTERVIEW WITH ANN SATERBAK about redesigning the first-year
experience

### Duke Engineering Design Pod Opening Fall 2017

A new 5,000-square-foot Design and Learning Lab for Pratt’s new first-year
hands-on engineering design course opens this fall in The Jinny and Ed Pratt
Commons, the ground-level oval space at the Levine Science Research Center
(LSRC). Known as the Duke Engineering Design Pod, the new space will include
workbenches, tools and rapid prototyping machines that the teams will use to
construct physical prototypes and/or digital artifacts as they engage in the
engineering design process

Renderings of new floor plan and workspace are shown above. The Phase One
primary seating and workspace area is opening at the start of the Fall 2017
semester, with Phase Two (kitchen area renovation) opening soon afterward. An
in-progress view of the space is below.  

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

