

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# David Carlson: Generating Scientific Understanding from Machine Learning

August 24, 2017

New faculty member David Carlson will help researchers campus-wide adapt
machine learning algorithms to their datasets

David Carlson has joined the faculty of Duke University’s Department of Civil
and Environmental Engineering with a dual appointment in the Department of
Biostatistics and Bioinformatics. A data scientist who tailors machine-
learning algorithms to a wide variety of projects in population and
environmental health, Carlson will connect researchers campus-wide.

It’s a campus that he is intimately familiar with; Carlson earned a
bachelor’s, master’s and doctoral degree at Duke before moving to a
postdoctoral researcher position at Columbia University for a year. After a
search for a permanent faculty position yielded several offers, he decided
that there really is no place like home.

Machine learning is a fast-growing field in which researchers teach computers
how to identify significant patterns in datasets in ways that humans cannot.
While these patterns often lead to valuable insights and surprisingly accurate
predictions, it is not always clear how the machine-learning algorithms arrive
at their conclusions.

Carlson works to design transparent algorithms that reveal their inner
workings as well as their predictive results. With this information,
researchers can then design new experiments to dial in on scientific
knowledge. These efforts often require extensive work to understand and
manipulate the complex mathematical underpinnings of these algorithms.

For example, a recent project saw Carlson working with Kafui Dzirasa,
assistant professor of psychiatry and behavioral studies, biomedical
engineering, neurobiology and neurosurgery at Duke, to evaluate how changes in
the brain correlate with psychiatric outcomes. Working with mouse models of
depression, the duo looked to relate neural signals to depression and
susceptibility to depression. After such signals were identified, the team
manipulated that neural activity to validate their findings, which resulted in
a significant improvement in the mouse’s responses to behavioral tests.

“If you understand why the machine learning algorithm made the decisions that
it did, then you can design an experiment to find out what makes those
conditions and variables important to the outcome,” said Carlson. “That’s
going to happen more and more with modern science due to the growing ability
to collect Big Data.”

Big Data is, however, a relative term. While tech giants like Google may be
able to draw data from millions of users making billions of decisions,
healthcare professionals are rarely so lucky. With these limitations in mind,
Carlson is working to design algorithms to deal with relatively narrow
datasets.

In his current role as a postdoctoral researcher at Duke, Carlson worked with
Geraldine Dawson, director of the Duke Center for Autism and Brain
Development, to try to determine which neural patterns may be signals of
autism. While the study only had 25 patients, Dawson collected a vast amount
of data on each one.

“You want to leverage the strengths of this data resource, but do it in a way
that will generalize to a wide population from a pretty small subset of
people,” said Carlson. “A lot of my work is balancing the big and small
aspects of what we’re analyzing.”

As Carlson transitions from postdoc to professorship, he will continue work on
his past projects on data science for population health while exploring new
collaborations in environmental engineering and other fields across campus.

“We have incredible people in CEE, biostatistics and at the hospital that have
excellent data sources. We need to start tying these connections together to
make the data work for us to draw conclusions,” said Carlson. “Duke is just a
phenomenal place with resources both in the medical and engineering schools
that will allow me to do things that I may not be able to do anywhere else.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

