

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Student Startup Wins $50,000 NFL 1st and Future Innovation Challenge

February 5, 2020

Formed by three Duke Engineers on Duke’s football team, Protect3d uses 3D
scanners and printers to produce anatomically precise protective devices

When three Duke Engineering undergraduates decided to make a customized
3D-printed collarbone brace, they were just trying to help out an injured
fellow Duke football player, Daniel Jones, the team’s quarterback destined to
start for the New York Giants. But the result was such a success that they saw
an opportunity to form a startup company around the idea.

With the help of design and entrepreneurship resources at Duke Engineering and
across the university, Protect3d was born. Now, not even a year and a half
after the trio engineered that first protective device, the burgeoning company
has won the NFL’s 1st and Future Innovations challenge—beating out three other
teams for the grand prize of $50,000 and two tickets to the Super Bowl.

“Drawing from what we learned with Duke Football, we did everything in our
power to be fully prepared for the competition, so pitching in front of the
judges was ultimately game day for us,” said Kevin Gehsmann (ME ’19), who
founded the company with Clark Bulleit (BME ’19) and Tim Skapek (ME ’20).

"We know how intellectually advanced they are individually, but it's
especially rewarding to watch from afar as they use principles learned from
athletics—teamwork, leadership, work ethic, innovation and selflessness—to
achieve success,” Duke head football coach David Cutcliffe told GoDuke.com.
“All three are outstanding representatives of their families, Duke University
and our program. We could not be more proud of them while knowing their finest
accomplishments are yet to come."

Held the Friday before Super Bowl LIV in Miami, Florida, the competition is
designed to spur innovation in player health, safety and performance,
including but not limited to protective equipment, medical devices, sensors
and training devices. After presenting their company’s business model and
technology—using 3D scans and 3D printing technology to create anatomically-
precise protective devices, each optimized for an individual athlete’s
comfort, mobility and protection—the team was declared the winners.

Mentored by Ken Gall, associate dean for entrepreneurship at Duke Engineering,
the team made full use of all of the resources available to them at Duke. “The
team gave an incredible presentation of their bold vision for protective
equipment at the NFL competition,” said Gall, a professor of mechanical
engineering and materials science and serial entrepreneur who serves as the
team’s technical and commercial advisor. “The Duke Engineering
Entrepreneurship team has enjoyed working with them and supporting their new
venture.”

The Duke Innovation CoLab provided guidance and support in becoming masters of
the space’s many 3D printers, while the Pratt Student Shop helped realize
their initial vision by lending the students a $40,000 3D scanner to do the
original scan of Daniel Jones, and the Breakthrough Research Initiative to
Develop Global Entrepreneurs (BRiDGE) startup incubator in Durham’s
Chesterfield Building provided space and guidance to grow. A Baquerizo
Innovation Grant provided a launchpad for Gehsmann and Bulleit to work on
Protect3d full-time after graduation, while Skapek continued working as a
current student. The team also spent the previous summer honing their business
plan at the Duke Innovation & Entrepreneurship’s inaugural Summer Accelerator,
where they gained guidance and insight.

After a full pilot program with NC State’s football team, Protect3d had
created 61 protective devices for almost 30 individual athletes. Through their
experience, the team—bolstered by the help of a couple more innovative
football players, Aaron Wright (ME '21) and Jackson Hubbard (CS
'21)—streamlined their process and created an app that allows trainers to scan
an athlete's body in 30 seconds using an iPad and a small 3D sensor
attachment. Protect3d then creates a digital prototype that fits the scanned
anatomy and 3D prints the custom medical device to fit whichever body part an
athlete needs protected. Their goal is to deliver personalized protective
devices within two to three days anywhere in the country.

Now part of the Melissa & Doug Entrepreneurs program on Duke’s campus, the
team plans to take their prize money and get to work on the next phase of
their business’s growth.

“We hope this event helps spring our business forward so we are able to
support NFL and college football teams across the country this coming season,”
said Gehsmann. “Most of the money will be used to expand our manufacturing
facility in Durham to prepare to scale up to meet that challenge.”

## Related News

January 29, 2020

### Duke Trio Named Finalists for NFL Honor

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

