

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Biomedical Engineers Awarded $4.8 Million in NIH High-Risk, High-Reward
Grants

October 2, 2018

In two NIH Innovator Awards with transformative potential, Yiyang Gong and
Michael Tadross target the nuanced behaviors of neurons

Two biomedical engineers at Duke University have received awards from the
National Institutes of Health’s High-Risk, High Reward Research program.

The program catalyzes scientific discovery by supporting exciting, high-risk
research proposals that may struggle in the traditional peer review process
despite their transformative potential. Program applicants are encouraged to
think outside the box and to pursue creative, trailblazing ideas in any area
of research relevant to the NIH mission.

“This program supports exceptionally innovative researchers who have the
potential to transform the biomedical field,” said NIH Director Francis S.
Collins, M.D., Ph.D. “I am confident this new cohort will revolutionize our
approaches to biomedical research through their groundbreaking work.”

The Duke proposals both center on investigating activities of specific types
of neurons using unique technology developed by each scientist.

For Yiyang Gong, assistant professor of biomedical engineering at Duke, that
technology is a protein sensor that flashes when a neuron fires. These sensors
are incredibly fast, capable of recording certain types of waveforms and
single action potentials that elude other technologies.

With his new five-year, $2.4 million award, Gong will use this platform to
monitor the collective activities of hundreds to thousands of neurons
simultaneously rather than the minute workings of only a few. By genetically
targeting different types of neurons with his sensor, Gong plans to
investigate how these cell types oscillate together and contribute to various
types of brainwaves. These insights could help reveal the neural origin of
phenomena such as learning, remembering and decision-making.

For Michael Tadross, assistant professor of biomedical engineering at Duke,
genetically targeting individual cell types in the brain has long been a
hallmark of his research enterprise. His novel technology, dubbed DART (Drugs
Acutely Restricted by Tethering), allows researchers to deliver
pharmaceuticals to specific cell types.

The technology works by genetically programming a specific cell type to
express a sort of GPS beacon, which is inert and does nothing more than
attract drugs loaded with a special homing device. This allows Tadross to
deliver drugs at concentrations that do not affect any cells other than those
tagged with the GPS beacon, where it accumulates at levels 1,000 times higher
than anywhere else.

In his new five-year, $2.4 million award, Tadross will use this technology to
investigate the molecular underpinnings of addiction at a level never before
possible. The DART system will deliver drugs targeted at excitatory and
inhibitory receptors on dopaminergic neurons in mice in an attempt to gain a
clearer picture of their roles in addiction and recovery.

As NIH Director’s New Innovator Awards, both grants are meant to support
unusually innovative research from early career investigators who are within
10 years of their final degree or clinical residency and have not yet received
a research project grant or equivalent NIH grant.

All told, the NIH issued 10 Pioneer awards, 58 New Innovator awards, 10
Transformative Research awards, and 11 Early Independence awards for 2018.
Funding for the awards comes from the NIH Common Fund and other Office of the
Director appropriations; National Cancer Institute; National Center for
Complementary and Integrative Health; National Institute of Allergy and
Infectious Diseases; National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney
Diseases; National Institute of General Medical Sciences; National Institute
of Mental Health; and Office of Research Infrastructure Programs.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

