

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# National Science Foundation Awards $970,000 to Duke University and Partners
to Improve Access to Global Energy Data

September 26, 2019

A $970,000 grant aims to conceptualize a new public platform to create an open
knowledge network for high-priority energy data

From the Duke Energy Initiative

The National Science Foundation (NSF) has awarded a $970,000 grant to
researchers at Duke University, World Resources Institute, Electric Power
Research Institute, and National Renewable Energy Laboratory to conceptualize
a new public platform to create an open knowledge network for high-priority
energy data.

The Global Energy Data Commons (GEDC) would enable public access to open
energy information, helping overcome persistent challenges in energy data
availability and interoperability.

The project is one of 43 funded through NSF’s Convergence Accelerator Pilot,
which brings multidisciplinary, multi-institutional teams together “to focus
on grand challenges of national importance that require a convergence
approach.” The GEDC project is part of the pilot’s “Harnessing the Data
Revolution” track, which supports the creation of open knowledge networks that
offer public access to vast amounts of pooled information and ideas.

During the nine-month Phase I funding period, the GEDC team will work with
stakeholders from academia, industry, and the nonprofit sector to identify
high-priority data needs and evaluate potential methods for collecting those
data, such as using machine learning to extract large-scale systems data. The
project team will inventory existing energy data and craft data
interoperability guidelines to support a more coordinated research network.

These efforts will inform and drive an energy data research agenda that’s
responsive to user demand and real-world problems.

Ultimately, the team envisions the GEDC will improve public access to energy
data and insights, thanks to the creation of curated and centralized
databases, online tools, and visualizations.

“We want to make it easier than ever for researchers, innovators, and
decisionmakers to access and use data to advance energy systems that are
reliable, affordable, accessible, and sustainable,” explained Dr. Kyle
Bradbury, managing director of Duke University’s Energy Data Analytics Lab and
the project’s principal investigator.

Co-principal investigators are Dr. Jordan Malof (Pratt School of Engineering,
Duke University); Dr. Brian Murray (Energy Initiative and Nicholas School of
the Environment, Duke University); Johannes Friedrich (World Resources
Institute); Dr. Steven Rose (Electric Power Research Institute); and Dr. Dylan
Harrison-Atlas (National Renewable Energy Laboratory).

Over the next several months, NSF will conduct intensive workshops with the
Convergence Accelerator grantee cohort, building teams’ capacity for working
effectively with diverse stakeholders and for pitching their efforts to
potential partners, investors, and users.

“The Convergence Accelerator program is designed to equip multi-institutional
research teams to establish robust stakeholder networks that make their work
actionable and impactful,” explained Douglas Maughan, NSF Convergence
Accelerator Office Head. “With this innovative approach, NSF is making a
meaningful investment in helping researchers build strong public-private
partnerships to tackle important challenges facing our country and world.”

In spring 2020, the GEDC team, along with the other 42 teams, will pitch NSF
for Phase II funding of up to $5M to implement the GEDC platform and undertake
focused data collection in high-priority areas.

_For more information, contact Braden Welborn at the Duke University Energy
Initiative:braden.welborn@duke.edu or (919) 613-0436._

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

