

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Researchers Take Optical Coherence Tomography to the Next Level

June 2, 2022 | By Aaron Cohen

With clearer imaging and enhanced resolution, a new OCT approach developed at
Duke could improve medical diagnostic imaging

Duke University researchers have developed an enhanced version of optical
coherence tomography (OCT) that can image biomedical samples at higher
contrast and resolution over a wider 3D field of view than was previously
possible. The new 3D microscope could be useful for biomedical research and
eventually enable more accurate medical diagnostic imaging.

In _Optica_, Optica Publishing Group’s journal for high-impact research, the
researchers describe the new technique which they call 3D optical coherence
refraction tomography (3D OCRT). Using various biological samples, they show
that 3D OCRT produces highly detailed images that reveal features difficult to
observe with traditional OCT.

OCT uses light to provide high-resolution 3D images without requiring any
contrast agents or labels. Although it is commonly used for ophthalmology
applications, the imaging method can also be used to image many other parts of
the body such as the skin and inside the ears, mouth, arteries and
gastrointestinal tract.

“OCT is a volumetric imaging technique widely used in ophthalmology and other
branches of medicine,” said first author Kevin C. Zhou. “We developed a new
and exciting extension, featuring novel hardware combined with a new
computational 3D image reconstruction algorithm to address some well-known
limitations of the imaging technique.”

“We envision this approach being applied in a wide variety of biomedical
imaging applications, such as _in vivo_ diagnostic imaging of the human eye or
skin,” said research team co-leader Joseph A. Izatt. “The hardware we designed
to perform the technique can also be readily miniaturized into small probes or
endoscopes to access the gastrointestinal tract and other parts of the body.”

## Seeing More with OCT

Although OCT has proven useful both in clinical applications and biomedical
research, it is difficult to acquire high-resolution OCT images over a wide
field of view in all directions simultaneously due to fundamental limitations
imposed by optical beam propagation. Another challenge is that OCT images
contain high levels of random noise, called speckle, which can obscure
biomedically important details.

To address these limitations, the researchers used an optical design that
incorporated a parabolic mirror. This type of mirror is commonly found in non-
imaging applications, such as flashlights, where it surrounds the light bulb
to direct the light in one direction. The researchers used an optical setup in
which light was sent in the other direction, with the sample placed where the
light bulb would be in a flashlight.

This design made it possible to image the sample from multiple views over a
very wide range of angles. They developed a sophisticated algorithm to combine
the views into a single high-quality 3D image that corrects for distortions,
noise and other imperfections.

“The work published in _Optica_ extends on our previous research by overcoming
significant engineering challenges, both in the hardware and software, to
allow OCRT to work in 3D and make it more widely applicable,” said research
team co-leader Sina Farsiu. “Because our system generates tens to hundreds of
gigabytes of data, we had to develop a new algorithm based on modern
computational tools that have recently matured within the machine learning
community.”

## Getting A Wider View

The researchers demonstrated the versatility and broad applicability of the
method by using it to image various biological samples including a zebrafish
and fruit fly, which are important model organisms for behavioral,
developmental and neurobiological studies. They also imaged mouse tissue
samples of the trachea and esophagus to demonstrate the potential for medical
diagnostic imaging. With 3D OCRT, they acquired 3D fields of view of up to
±75° without moving the sample.

“In addition to reducing noise artifacts and correcting for sample-induced
distortions, OCRT is inherently capable of computationally creating contrast
from tissue properties that are less visible in traditional OCT,” said Zhou.
“For example, we show that it is sensitive to oriented structures such as
fiber-like tissue.”

The researchers are now exploring ways to shrink the system and make it faster
for live imaging by taking advantage of recent developments in faster OCT
system technologies and advances in deep learning that can speed up or improve
data processing.

**Citation** : K. C. Zhou, R. P. McNabb, R. Qian, S. Degan, A.-H. Dhalla, S.
Farsiu, J. A. Izatt, “Computational 3D microscopy with optical coherence
refraction tomography,” 9, 6 (2022).  
DOI: 10.1364/OPTICA.454860

## Related News

August 04, 2021

### Robotic Scanner Automates Diagnostic Imaging in the Eye

May 04, 2021

### AI Spots Individual Neurons in the Eye Better than Human Experts

May 14, 2020

### Retinal Texture Could Provide Early Biomarker Of Alzheimer’s Disease

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

