

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Oh the Places Grads Go

May 18, 2018 | By Michaela Kane

BME graduates leave Duke ready for new opportunities

On May 13, 285 students flipped their tassels to become the newest bachelor’s
graduates of Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering. Although each
student had their share of unique experiences at Duke, they now face the same
question: What’s next?

For Duke Biomedical Engineering (BME) graduates, there is no shortage of
opportunities. More than 40 percent of BME students will continue their
education by going on to graduate and professional schools, including Harvard
Medical School, MIT and the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine.
Others will pursue internships or travel opportunities to continue to
cultivate the skills they learned at Duke. But the biggest draw for students
is employment, with a majority of our graduates going on to full-time jobs
after graduation.

According to _Medical Product Manufacturing News_ , Duke’s BME department is
ranked #3 in the country for highest median starting salary for biomedical
engineers, with graduates earning an average yearly salary of $70,000 at their
first job. Duke BME students have also been able to use their degree to pursue
jobs in a variety of fields, including biotech, pharmaceuticals, medical
device development, healthcare and medicine, and computing and IT services.

To learn more about a few of our recent graduates, check out our BME Graduates
Video Series:

**Sydney Jeffs** , a BME major, will move to Boston where she'll work in a
tissue engineering lab at the Massachusetts General Hospital while she applies
for MD-PhD programs. During her time at Duke, Jeffs worked in the West lab,
graduated with departmental distinction and recieved the Helmholtz Award for
her senior research project.

**Karen Xu** was a BME major, and during her time at Duke she was named a
Goldwater Scholar and recieved the Howard G. Clarke Award. In the Fall of
2018, Xu will attend the University of Pennsylvania in MD-PhD program.

**Vincent Miao** completed research on biomaterials in the Chilkoti lab during
his time in Duke BME, and he recieved the Helmholtz Award for his senior
research project. After graduation, Miao will be working towards a PhD at the
medical engineering and medical physics program at the Harvard-MIT Health
Sciences and Technology program in Boston.

After graduation, **Jocelyn Corey** will start work at Plexus Corporation as
an analog hardware engineer where she will help design medical devices. During
her time at Duke, she worked with Duke Engineers for International Development
to design and build a bridge in Rwanda.

**Emelina Vienneau** received the Howard G. Clark Award and graduated from BME
with departmental distinction. During her time at Duke, Vienneau worked in the
Yao lab, and she will attend Vanderbuilt University to pursue her PhD.

**Harvey Shi** double-majored in BME and Computer Science. During his time at
Duke he completed research in the Randles lab and helped develop a unique
version of a fitness tracker as a final design project.

#### Learn more about our previous graduates:

### 2017 BME Graduates

**Daniel Hull** ,a BME major, will start a job at Baebies, Inc. after
graduation. Hull interned at the newborn screening company last year before
accepting a full-time job offer.

**Amy Xiong** was a BME and ECE double major, and during her time at Duke she
participated in the DukeEngage and Engineering World Health programs. After
graduation, Xiong will return to her home state of Minnesota to work as an
engineer at Medtronic, a medical device company.

**Stephen Page** , a BME and ECE double major, credits his work ethic to the
motivated students and faculty he encountered at Duke. Page will be an
engineer at Keytech, an engineering company in Baltimore, Maryland, after he
receives his degree.

After graduation, **David Whisler** will start work at Stryker Surgical
Robotics. Whisler, a BME and ECE double-major, is looking forward to his new
role, which combines his interests in biomedical and electrical engineering.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

