

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Layered Liquids Arrange Nanoparticles into Useful Configurations

March 26, 2019 | By Ken Kingery

Theoretical approach for assembling nanoparticles uses an idea similar to
separated vinaigrettes

Materials scientists at Duke University have theorized a new “oil-and-vinegar”
approach to engineering self-assembling materials of unusual architectures
made out of spherical nanoparticles. The resulting structures could prove
useful to applications in optics, plasmonics, electronics and multi-stage
chemical catalysis.

The novel approach appeared online on March 25 in the journal ACS Nano.

Left to their own tendencies, a system of suspended spherical nanoparticles
designed to clump together will try to maximize their points of contact by
packing themselves as tightly as possible. This results in the formation of
either random clusters or a three-dimensional, crystalline structure.

But materials scientists often want to build more open structures of lower
dimensions, such as strings or sheets, to take advantage of certain phenomena
that can occur in the spaces between different types of particles. And they’re
always on the lookout for clever ways to precisely control the sizes and
placements of those spaces and particles.

In the new study, Gaurav Arya, associate professor of mechanical engineering
and materials science at Duke, proposes a method that takes advantage of the
layers formed by liquids that, like a bottle of vinaigrette left on the shelf
for too long, refuse to mix together.

When spherical nanoparticles are placed into such a system, they tend to form
a single layer at the interface of the opposing liquids. But they don’t have
to stay there. By attaching “oil” or “vinegar” molecules to the particles’
surfaces, researchers can make them float more on one side of the dividing
line than the other.

> “The particles want to maximize their number of contacts and form bulk-like
> structures, but at the same time, the interface of the different liquids is
> trying to force them into two layers. So you have a competition of forces,
> and you can use that to form different kinds of unique and interesting
> structures.”

“The particles want to maximize their number of contacts and form bulk-like
structures, but at the same time, the interface of the different liquids is
trying to force them into two layers,” said Arya. “So you have a competition
of forces, and you can use that to form different kinds of unique and
interesting structures.”

Arya’s idea is to precisely control the amount that each spherical
nanoparticle is repelled by one liquid or the other. And according to his
calculations, by altering this property along with others such as the
nanoparticles’ composition and size, materials scientists can make all sorts
of interesting shapes, from spindly molecule-like structures to zig-zag
structures where only two nanoparticles touch at a time. One could even
imagine several different layers working together to arrange a system of
nanoparticles.

In the proof-of-concept paper, the nanoparticles could be made out of
anything. Gold or semiconductors could be useful for plasmonic and electrical
devices, while other metallic elements could catalyze various chemical
reactions. The opposing substrates that form the interface, meanwhile, are
modeled after various types of polymers that could also be used in such
applications.

“So far in this paper, we have only introduced the assembly approach and
demonstrated its potential to create these exotic arrangements that you
wouldn’t normally get,” said Arya. “There are so many more things to do next.
For one, we’d like to explore the full repertoire of possible structures and
phases researchers could make using this concept. We are also working closely
with experimentalists to test the full capabilities of this approach.”

This work was supported by the National Science Foundation (CMMI Award
1636356, ACI-1053575).

CITATION: “Interfacial Assembly of Tunable Anisotropic Nanoparticle
Architectures,” Tsung-Yeh Tang, Yilong Zhou, and Gaurav Arya. ACS Nano, March
25, 2019. DOI: 10.1021/acsnano.8b08733

# # #

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

