

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Engineering Buoys Banner Year for Duke Entrepreneurial Efforts

October 18, 2018

Record-setting year includes 32 issued patents, 11 licensing agreements and
five new start-up companies from engineering faculty

It was a banner year for Duke’s Office of Licensing and Ventures (OLV), and
Duke Engineering helped lead the charge.

According to Duke OLV’s 2017-18 annual report, Duke employees filed a record
329 invention disclosures and started 16 new companies, 15 of which are
staying here in Durham and the Triangle. Continuing its trend of growth in
these areas, the Pratt School of Engineering alone generated five new start-
ups, 91 invention disclosures, 11 license/option agreements and 32 issued US
patents.

Warren Grill, for example, was awarded three patents, including a method for
generating energy-optimized waveforms for treating neurological disorders
using deep brain stimulation. Charles Gersbach also helped secure two patents,
including one on the genetic correction of mutated genes. Jungsang Kim
successfully protected a design for a scalable modular quantum computing
architecture. And Tuan Vo-Dinh patented a method for using gold nanostars to
detect, image and treat cancer.

In other innovations well past the patenting stage, Duke-spawned companies
raised $526 million in funding during the fiscal year. One recent start-up
featuring a campus-wide collaboration between Pratt, Trinity and the School of
Medicine called Element Genomics, which focuses on gene regulation and
bioinformatics, was acquired by a Belgian pharmaceuticals company for $30
million in upfront and milestone payments.

Another recent startup founded by Larry Carin called Infinia ML empowers
Fortune 500 companies to make smarter decisions and automate complex processes
through the latest advances in machine learning. The company received an AI
Breakthrough Award, which recognize the best companies, technologies, products
and services in the field of Artificial Intelligence, for Best Machine
Learning Company. Infinia also recently announced a partnership with Duke
Engineering to integrate machine learning into the school’s entrepreneurial
instruction.

Duke innovations were also licensed to outside interests. OLV negotiated 114
agreements, 25 of which are exclusive agreements. Licensing brought Duke $51
million in revenue during the fiscal year.

For Pratt researchers, this included Nimmi Ramanujam’s company Athoria Inc
licensing technology for an inserter for speculum-free and self-examination
for cervical cancer. And Adam Wax’s company Lumedica licensed handheld, low-
cost optical coherence tomography devices.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

