

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Online FinTech Master’s Program Pivots to Early Launch

April 8, 2020

New Duke Engineering master’s program will offer flexibility to busy
professionals

The Duke Master of Engineering in Financial Technology (FinTech) Online
program announced today that it will immediately begin accepting applications
for admission into its first class, slated to begin on June 29, 2020—more than
a full year earlier than initially anticipated.

Before launching Duke Engineering’s new Master of Engineering in Financial
Technology on-campus program, its academic leadership team performed extensive
market research to craft an offering that would best serve its technically-
oriented students. The faculty recruited to the program have extensive
industry experience. It is one of only two programs in the country
headquartered in an engineering school, and focuses on developing confident
creators, giving them a background in finance while emphasizing the concepts
of design thinking and innovation that are the backbone of a Duke Engineering
education.

Keen interest in the program—more than 300 people applied for the 30 seats
available in its first class—reassured the team that they had gotten the new
offering right.

In doing the reconnaissance that informed how the program took shape, however,
Program Director Jimmie Lenz noted that one segment of potential students
expressed a significant unmet need.

“I spoke with many prospective students,” said Jimmie Lenz, “and I heard from
quite a few that a campus-based program wasn’t an option because of existing
career and family responsibilities.”

> “I spoke with many prospective students, and I heard from quite a few that a
> campus-based program wasn’t an option because of existing career and family
> responsibilities.”
>
> Jimmie Lenz, FINTECH PROGRAM DIRECTOR

Soon, the program’s administrators began taking steps toward establishing an
online FinTech program that would give more aspiring FinTech professionals the
flexibility to earn an advanced degree and move into the FinTech sector from
areas like IT and risk management.

But the threat posed by the spread of coronavirus in recent weeks gave the
administration a good reason to launch the online format early.

“In order to address the new reality of physical distancing while
simultaneously addressing the need for professionals to keep working and
enhancing their skills, we are launching the FinTech Online MEng degree this
summer,” said Senior Associate Dean for Education and Learning Innovation
Jeffrey Glass.

Until the Duke University campus is re-opened, students in the residential
program will also complete their coursework remotely, beginning on the same
day as the online program. Students in both programs will be able to leverage
the program’s many benefits: partnerships with major FinTech and financial
services firms, memberships in the Ripple University Blockchain Research
Initiative and the Baseline Protocol Technical Steering Committee, and
collaborations with the Duke Financial Economics Center (DFE) and the Duke
Master’s in Interdisciplinary Data Sciences (MIDS).

“And, the same level of rigor will be applied in determining who gains
admission to the online program,” added Lenz.

The application period will be open from now until May 15, and candidates can
expect to be notified with decisions by June 1.

Apply Now

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

