

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Post-Surgical Patch Releases Non-Opioid Painkiller Directly to the Wound

January 11, 2021 | By Karl Bates

New polymer promises localized pain control for critical first four days

A Duke-led team of scientists has developed a bio-compatible surgical patch
that releases non-opioid painkillers directly to the site of a wound for days
and then dissolves away.

The polymer patch provides a controlled release of a drug that blocks the
enzyme COX-2 (cyclooxygenase-2,) which drives pain and inflammation. The study
appears Jan. 10, 2021 in the Journal of Controlled Release.

When they started, "We were making hernia meshes and different antimicrobial
films," said Matthew Becker, the Hugo L. Blomquist professor chemistry at
Duke, and last author on the paper. "We thought you could potentially put pain
drugs or anesthetics in the film if you just sew it in as you're stitching the
person up, then you wouldn't necessarily have to prescribe any opioids,"
Becker said.

The work grew out of a $2 million grant Becker received from the state of Ohio
at his previous institution to investigate non-opioid pain management, one
measure toward fighting a nationwide epidemic of opioid drug abuse. Since
arriving at Duke in 2019, Becker's team has partnered with Duke pain control
expert Dr. Ru-Rong Ji and his team to refine the idea.

The polymer itself, comprised of poly(ester urea) homopolymers and co-
polymers, is also special, said Becker, who is also a professor of mechanical
engineering and materials science in Duke's Pratt School of Engineering.

"Most polymers that are used in medicine swell, and everything comes out at
once," Becker said. But this polymer erodes slowly, and its painkiller dose
and longevity can be controlled simply by varying the surface area and
thicknesses. "The film is about like a piece of paper."

"If you can get four or five days of pain control out of the patch and not
have to take those other pain drugs, not only do you avoid some of the side
effects and risks of addiction, you're concentrating therapy where you need
it," Becker said.

Rat studies also showed that the painkiller stayed in tissues close to the
patch site, rather than dissolving into circulating plasma.

Becker said the patch should be able to provide three or four days of wound-
pain management, which is the critical period for post-surgical pain. The
implantable film would be particularly useful in endoscopic procedures and
instances where the physicians and patients would like to avoid opioid
exposure such as Cesarean births and pediatric surgeries. In studies with mice
that mimic the neuropathic pain of diabetes, the pain patch was placed against
a nerve and provided a four-day nerve block.

This research was sponsored by Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp, 21st Century Medical
Technologies and the Ohio Third Frontier Opioid Challenge. Becker and co-
author Natasha Brigham have filed provisional patent applications with the
University of Akron Research Foundation. Becker also is a board member and
equity holder in 21st Century Medical Technologies.

CITATION: "Controlled Release of Etoricoxib from Poly(ester urea) Films for
Post-Operative Pain Management," Natasha Brigham, Rebecca Nofsinger, Xin Luo,
Nathan Dreger, Alexandra Abel, Tiffany Gustafson, Seth Forster, Andre Hermans,
Ru-Rong Ji, Matthew Becker. Journal of Controlled Release, Jan. 10, 2021. DOI:
10.1016/j.jconrel.2020.11.052

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

