

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Pajic Wins National Science Foundation CAREER Award

March 22, 2017

Grant will develop new techniques to guard against cyberattacks against cyber-
physical systems.

Miroslav Pajic, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering at
Duke University, has won a 2017 National Science Foundation Faculty Early
Career Development Program (CAREER) award. Reserved for talented faculty
members within the first five years of beginning their own research
enterprise, the grant provides $440,000 over five years to support their
research.

Pajic’s research project, titled “Foundations for Secure Control of Cyber-
Physical Systems,” focuses on creating new ways to guard against cyberattacks
in these safety-critical systems. As autonomous vehicles become commonplace
and medical devices become connected to the Internet of Things, opportunities
for hackers increase, as do the stakes for thwarting their efforts.

With the increase in complexity of these cyber-physical systems (CPS),
traditional security standards and methods become inadequate. Pajic and his
group will develop scientific foundations for the design of security-aware
CPS. To ensure system safety even in the presence of attacks, they will
develop algorithms for attack-resilient control and intrusion detection, as
well as techniques for efficient controller instrumentation and recovery if
the system has been compromised.

Their approach is to exploit physical phenomena present in any interaction
between cyber and physical worlds to derive cyber-physical security techniques
with strong performance and resiliency guarantees. Pajic will also explore the
use of security-aware human-cps interactions to additionally improve security
guarantees, by taking advantage of the human power of inductive reasoning and
the ability to provide context, in systems where a human is still present.
This project will have

This project will have an immediate industrial impact as Pajic and his team
will develop security-aware automotive controllers for connected and
autonomous vehicles with varying levels of autonomy and human supervision.

“We’re moving into a new era of societal changes with the introduction of
autonomous vehicles and smart cities,” said Pajic. “But if these systems are
going to interact with and—even more challenging—control the world around us,
they need to be built in a way that is safe, reliable and secure.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

