

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Pajic Receives ACM SIGBED Early Career Researcher Award

March 25, 2019

Award recognizes outstanding contributions by early career investigators in
the area of embedded, real-time and cyber-physical systems

Miroslav Pajic, the Nortel Networks Assistant Professor of Electrical and
Computer Engineering at Duke University, has won this year’s Association for
Computing Machinery Special Interest Group on Embedded Systems (ACM SIGBED)
Early Career Award.

SIGBED is a focal point within the ACM for all aspects of embedded computing
systems, including both software and hardware. Its Early Career Researcher
Award recognizes “outstanding contributions by early career investigators in
the area of embedded, real-time and cyber-physical systems." Recipients are
chosen for their entire body of work, not just a particular project or two,
based on their impact in the field.

Pajic’s research focuses on high-assurance system design methodologies for
cyber-physical systems (CPS), which feature tight interaction of computing
with the physical world. CPS are the next generation of safety-critical
embedded control systems, in domains spanning from autonomous vehicles,
industrial automation and advanced manufacturing, to medical devices and
systems, energy-efficient buildings, and smart cities. Pajic and his students
are creating ways to build such systems with strong safety, efficiency and
security guarantees.

For example, one of his projects focuses on providing safety guarantees for
autonomous vehicles even in the presence of adversarial activities. His
approach takes advantage of a car’s interactions with its physical environment
to detect attacks and provide resiliency against them. For instance, a digital
assailant could compromise the GPS to take an autonomous vehicle off course.
But by using previous sensor measurements combined with standard security
protocols, Pajic and his team have shown that the car can recognize the false
data and act accordingly.

Pajic’s work in this arena has also recently earned him several awards
including a National Science Foundation CAREER Award, Young Investigator Award
from the Office of Naval Research, IBM Faculty Award, as well as the Best
Paper Award at the EMSOFT conference—the top conference in the area of
embedded system software, which is organized and sponsored by SIGBED.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

