

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# The Paths These WINning Alumnae Chose

November 11, 2019

A Duke Women’s Impact Network panel talks about the spectrum of opportunities
open to engineers

One woman is an ophthalmologist. One works in investment banking. Another
works for the CIA.

What do they all have in common? Duke engineering degrees.

And, most of them serve on the Pratt Board of Visitors and belong to the
Women’s Impact Network (WIN), a community of Duke women who support Duke
philanthropically and as volunteer leaders at the highest levels. Recently,
five WIN members and a member of the Pratt Alumni Council convened at the
Fitzpatrick Center to share with current students the diverging paths each had
chosen after graduation.

The panel was composed of:

  * Rachel Fleming, CE’12 MEng’13 – Lead Engineer, MBP
  * Sara Furber ME’97 – Chief Financial Officer, IEX Group
  * Stacy Klein-Gardner, BME/EE’91 – Adjunct Professor of Biomedical
    Engineering, Vanderbilt University
  * Tanya N. BME/EE'91 – Engineering Manager, CIA
  * Stacy L. Pineles, MD, BME'00 - Associate Professor of Ophthalmology &
    Residency Program Director, Stein Eye Institute, David Geffen School of
    Medicine, UCLA

Holly Espy CEE’93, an award-winning journalist who co-hosts the daily talk
show Good Day DC, moderated the panel. The panelists started by explaining
their current jobs and what they like best about their chosen careers. They
also shared their favorite moments at Duke—many of which involve the Final
Four and meeting lifelong friends or future spouses in the freshman dorms.

But much of the discussion focused on points of uncertainty and other
challenges that they had experienced. Here’s what some of the panelists had to
say, edited for brevity.

On **making decisions at critical junctures:**

Stacy Pineles: “I was a (first-year medical) intern, and I was really tired. I
was living in Los Angeles and had second thoughts about the path I had chosen
(ophthalmology). I applied to two consulting firms, and was offered a job. I
could have stayed in Los Angeles and made a lot more money…I was at a critical
juncture. I spoke to a lot of people, and some of the most influential were
doctors who were 15-20 years ahead of me. They talked to me about the long
game, and which career would be most gratifying. Rather than focusing on the
minute-to-minute and hour-to-hour, you have to picture your career over 35
years and think about what would be the most fulfilling to your heart. I’m
really thrilled with the path I chose because I feel it uses my skillset the
best.”

Tanya N.: “My husband and I were both looking for jobs at the same time, in
the same location. The job that we found that was the best solution for our
family at the time was not in biomedical engineering--that was when I joined
the CIA. I went from medical image processing to satellite image processing.
At the time, it was a little bit of a compromise. But 22 years later I’m still
at it and I do really cool things every day.”

Stacy Klein-Gardner: “By the end of graduate school, I had gone through a lot
of work to obtain a PhD in BME, but my heart was in teaching. I always thought
I’d retire to be a high school teacher, but I realized that was stupid—that if
that’s what I really wanted to do, I should go do it.”

Sara Furber: “Investment banking is like engineering—there’s a very linear
progression. It’s a fast-moving train, and if you can stay on it you keep
growing in responsibility. After I had been in it for about seven years, I
started to wonder if it was the best fit for me. So I raised my hand and said,
‘I’m not sure if this fast-moving train is for me.’ There was a lot of risk in
that decision. It took courage and some soul-searching, but I had a lot of
confidence and I had developed strong relationships with people I worked with,
so it was a conversation I felt comfortable having. I pushed hard, and a job
was created for me. It literally transformed the trajectory of my career.”

> “There is no linear path... Your view of what’s right for you changes along
> the way.”
>
> Sara Furber ME '97

Rachel Fleming: “Four or five years after I graduated I had what I refer to as
my ‘quarter-life crisis.’ I was on the fast train, with everyone pushing. But
I had a nagging feeling that something wasn’t right. It took me a long time to
figure out that I didn’t want to be on the train, then I had to figure out,
well, what next? I had an idea of what I wanted to do, but I didn’t even know
if it existed. I just started talking to different people and different
companies, and called my current firm to tell them I was on the market.”

> “You have to be willing to jump off the train.”
>
> Rachel Fleming CE’12 MEng’13

Holly Espy: "I knew I wanted to go into news. I told my dad that I just wanted
to try it. I got an opportunity to go be a reporter in Steubenville, Ohio. I
started working on Christmas Day and I was going to make $6 an hour, and my
dad had just paid for me to go to Duke University. My dad said, ‘Holly, if
that’s your dream, you go for it. I believe in you.’ My dad was my greatest
champion, and a wonderful mentor and role model for me.”

On **finding work-life balance:**

Stacy Pineles: “It’s ok to have help. The more help, the better.”

Tanya N.: “At one point I was working 6:30 to 6:30 every day, six days a week,
and I picked my head up and saw that my workload had gone back to normal, but
I was still working 12 hours because that had become my habit. It’s a
conscious effort to keep that in check.”

Stacy Klein-Gardner: “I achieve balance on average. I have crafted a career
that lets me have some control over when I’m working and when I’m not.”

Sara Furber: “There’s a dynamic of urgent versus important. When something
comes up right away there’s an urgency—a feeling of ‘I have to get it done
right away.’ You can relentlessly respond to ‘urgent’ things and lose track of
the things that are really important to you. I think about urgent versus
important in terms of a budget—on average, how many nights a week do I want to
be home to do homework with my kids? Or do yoga? Or see my girlfriends? If
it’s important, you have to dedicate time to it.”

Rachel Fleming: “I got myself on four boards at one time. I just kept saying
yes to every exciting opportunity that came my way. I would caution you—the
opportunities will always be there, so do what you want to do and change your
threshold when you need to.”

On **imposter syndrome** :

Stacy Klein-Gardner: “It still happens. I’m thinking about a grant I’m taking
a huge leadership role with—I still feel that someday someone is going to find
out that I don’t know all the engineering education research they think I do.”

Holly Espy: “There’s only one you. No one else is bring to the table what
you’re bringing to the table, because you’re the only one who can be you at
the table. Never forget that… We may solve the problem because we see it from
a different point of view. That’s a good thing!”

On **whether an engineering background is an advantage or disadvantage** :

Holly Espy: “It is the best thing I ever did and I would choose it again. You
can be anything you want to be if you are an engineer, and that is the bottom
line. You know how to solve problems, you take in massive amounts of
information and process it. Here’s the other thing—you don’t have to be strong
at everything, you just have to assemble a strong team. As an engineer you
know that.”

Stacy Pineles: “When you get to medical school after being in BME at Duke, you
will find medical school easy. Honestly. Medical school was the best four
years of my life, it was so easy. Set yourself up—this is the time to do
challenging things!”

Sara Furber: “My husband was a history major. He had 12 hours of class a week
--if he went to class. I had close to 30 hours a week in labs and class, and
that was not lost on me. It was hard. There was a cost. But it is a currency
that is worth a lot more in the real world than I ever would have thought. The
things that people will assume about you is really helpful. It opens a lot of
doors.”

Members of the Duke community can watch a recording of the event, using their
NetID.

Watch the Full Event

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

