

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Drug Delivery Modification Sidesteps Allergic Responses

November 30, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

Redesigned drug-delivery polymer may extend drug life 16-fold

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have reconfigured a popular drug-
delivery technology to evade immune responses that have halted some clinical
trials.

Polyethylene glycol, commonly known as PEG, is a polymer commonly found in
commercial products from toothpaste to cosmetics, and also in pharmaceuticals.
PEG is used as a thickener, solvent, softener and moisture-carrier, but it can
also be attached to active drugs in the bloodstream to slow the body’s
clearing of them, greatly lengthening the duration of their effects.

The pervasiveness of PEG in daily human life, however, is causing many people
to develop antibodies to the polymer. This has led some PEG-modified or
“PEGylated” drugs to lose their longevity and has caused allergic reactions,
some of which have been life-threatening.

In a new paper, Duke researchers reveal an altered version of PEG that seems
to avoid recognition by PEG antibodies already present in individuals. The new
technology also shows excellent efficacy, controlling glucose levels in
diabetic mice for up to 4 days when used with a drug that, without PEG, treats
type 2 diabetes for just six hours.

The results appeared online on November 28, 2016, in the new journal Nature
Biomedical Engineering.

“This work has been an interesting journey with the unexpected twists and
turns that makes research so rewarding,” said Ashutosh Chilkoti, the Alan L.
Kaganov Professor of Biomedical Engineering and chair of the biomedical
engineering department.

“We started down a path to make PEG-like conjugates of protein drugs more
efficiently and stumbled into the PEG antigenicity problem,” Chilkoti said.
“We were lucky to find an expert close at hand in the School of Medicine at
Duke. This work was only possible because of the incredible interdisciplinary
research culture at Duke that recognizes no boundaries.”

The new PEG delivery system was initially developed by Chilkoti and graduate
student Yizhi (Stacey) Qi to boost production efficiency. Conventional PEG
drug-delivery polymers require labor-intensive synthesis and purification, but
the new polymers are grown directly from a defined site on a drug molecule.
The new polymer looks a lot like a bottle cleaning brush, with many short
segments of ethylene glycol sticking out from a primary backbone.

“Growing the polymer directly on the drug is simpler and more efficient in
terms of yield than the conventional process,” said Qi, who successfully
defended her thesis in August. “The boost in efficiency varies from protein to
protein, but our yield is significantly higher and produces more uniform
results.”

Meanwhile, just a few hundred yards away, a different challenge was being
faced by Bruce Sullenger, the Joseph W. and Dorothy W. Beard Professor of
Experimental Surgery and director of the Duke Translational Research
Institute. During a late-stage clinical trial for an anticoagulant that used
PEG to extend its effectiveness, 10 patients had an immediate, anaphylactic
immune reaction because of pre-existing PEG antibodies.

The clinical trials were immediately shut down.

“These allergic reactions stopped the development of an otherwise very
promising approach to control blood clotting while limiting bleeding,” said
Sullenger. “Because people with pre-existing PEG antibodies are now present in
the population and such antibodies can elicit life-threatening allergic
reactions, it has become critical for drug development to create alternative
formulations of PEG.”

Chilkoti heard about this problem and thought that his lab’s new bottle-brush
PEG polymer might be a solution. Because each of the molecular chain
“bristles” are so short, existing PEG antibodies might not be able to
recognize them.

To find out, Chilkoti and Qi turned to Michael Hershfield, professor of
medicine and biochemistry at the Duke University School of Medicine.
Hershfield has been involved with PEG technology ever since the clinical
trials and FDA approval for the very first PEGylated drug in 1990. An immune
response to this drug has never been an issue, because its intended recipients
are children with deficient immune systems.

A second drug he helped develop in the early 2000s to treat gout, however, has
encountered obstacles. About 40 percent of patients develop antibodies to the
PEG portion of the drug after the first few doses, leading to allergic
reactions and a loss of effectiveness.

“Nancy Ganson, a scientist in my lab, and I got involved with Professor
Chilkoti’s project because we had discovered that anti-PEG antibodies were
induced by our PEGylated gout drug during clinical trials” said Hershfield.
“We later identified high levels of pre-existing anti-PEG antibodies in the
first three patients who had allergic reactions to Dr. Sullenger’s PEGylated
anticoagulant. Professor Chilkoti’s initial substitute for PEG still had a
little bit of PEG on it, so we needed to see if anti-PEG antibodies could
recognize it.”

On their second try at designing a suitable PEG substitute, the team hit pay
dirt. The antibodies left the new compound alone.

Qi then attached her new polymer to a drug used to treat type 2 diabetes and
injected it into diabetic mice to see if the system still worked as well. To
her delight, there was almost no loss of efficacy, extending the effects of
one drug 16-fold.

With this success in hand, the team next plans to test for immunological
responses in living animals with preexisting PEG antibodies. They also need to
determine whether antibodies will be created against the new polymers.

This work was supported by the National Institutes of Health (R01-DK092665).

CITATION: “A brush-polymer/exendin-4 conjugate reduces blood glucose levels
for up to five days and eliminates poly(ethylene glycol) antigenicity.” Yizhi
Qi, Antonina Simakova, Nancy J. Ganson, Xinghai Li, Kelli M. Luginbuhl, Imran
Ozer, Wenge Liu, Michael S. Hershfield, Krzysztof Matyjaszewski, Ashutosh
Chilkoti. Nature Biomedical Engineering. Nov. 28, 2016. DOI:
10.1038/s41551-016-0002 https://www.nature.com/articles/s41551-016-0002

###

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

