

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Ph.D. Plus Gives Engineering Graduate Students Career Edge

September 23, 2013 | By Michael Gowan

Students learn essential business skills to prepare for industry jobs

A Ph.D. in engineering, followed by years of postdoctoral study, has
traditionally opened the door to an academic career focused on research and
teaching—but more and more Ph.D. engineers are headed in other directions.

In fact, today, around 70 percent of Duke University’s engineering Ph.D.
graduates head straight into non-academic fields, whether traditional
engineering firms, device companies, consulting or even banking.

“Careers available to engineering Ph.D.s are widening as the appreciation for
engineering problem-solving skills extends into technical and non-technical
fields. But these opportunities are best obtained by someone with transferable
skills,” said Monty Reichert, associate dean for Ph.D. education and diversity
at the Duke University Pratt School of Engineering.

Duke Engineering has taken this reality into account to attract and train top
professional Ph.D. engineers, and developed a new approach to preparing
students for career success: Ph.D. Plus.

“You may have earned a Ph.D., but you’ve probably never been a president of a
company, run a business meeting, delegated tasks to others or learned a host
of other important business skills needed to succeed,” said Director of
Business Development Bob Barnes.

Pratt also placed graduate students in the center of the program, empowering
them to devise and implement a plan for turning their academic credentials
into a profession.

These graduate students recently created the Ph.D. Plus program at Pratt. The
program works like an abbreviated professional training program, providing
internship opportunities and filling the school year and summer with speakers
and seminars led by experts from many walks of professional life. These
experts come to campus for a myriad of formal and informal forums to impart
practical information about how they transitioned from the ivory tower to the
real world.

Duke’s program is part of a trend at engineering schools to better prepare
Ph.D. engineers for professional life. Similar programs are offered at
Dartmouth, Purdue, Georgia Tech and University of California, Davis.

What makes the Pratt initiative unique is that it is totally student-
initiated, organized and led. The students research the speakers, organize
itineraries, set up seminars and small group discussion sessions and collect
feedback from attendees to make sure the events are relevant to the student
body. The students even find their own internships—while taking advantage of
the extensive connections of program leaders, Duke University Career Services
and other on-campus resources.

According to Barnes, “The whole idea is to empower students by finding user-
friendly programs that can help them after graduation. Whether it’s learning
how to run a meeting or setting up production schedules from the business
community, or learning the ins and outs of writing grants, we feel it’s best
for graduates to be aware of what’s awaiting them from the beginning.”

“The most important thing we stress is career awareness,” said Vrad Levering,
a Ph.D. student who spent nine years at a medical device company before coming
back to work on his graduate degree in the lab of Gabriel Lopez, professor of
biomedical engineering (BME). “Whether you want to go into industry or
academia—students should be prepared to broaden their overall skills, not just
those of their specific field of study. These skills can be essential for
success.”

An important part of the program is a meaningful two- to three-month
internship, where graduate students can gain practical experience in their
field of interest, whether in an academic or industry setting. The key
challenge is finding those internships that mesh with students’ current line
of research, so their experiences can relate to their faculty mentors’
research when they return to Duke.

“The idea is that after this internship, the students can come back and not
only provide additional insights into their current work, but to give
practical advice to other students about the outside world,” Levering said.

Those students who complete an internship under the Ph.D. Plus program receive
a special notation on their diploma.

The Ph.D. Plus program can be a critical connection between research and
implementation for students, said Professor Mark Wiesner, who is thesis
advisor for student Judy Winglee. Upon the completion of Judy's internship he
said, “I found that the experience helps students learn about challenges they
will encounter in real-world practice, and that can help them better form
research.”

Beyond preparing current students, Reichert believes that the Ph.D. Plus
program should help efforts to recruit the top graduating seniors to choose
Pratt laboratories to begin their graduate careers.

“Our students are better prepared thanks to Ph.D. Plus,” Reichert says. “They
are more marketable to employers and more confident in their skills.”

BME grad student Suzana Vallejo-Heligon, one of the founding members of the
Ph.D. Plus program and a member of the Reichert lab says based on the growing
popularity of the program and increasing turnouts for our events, Ph.D. Plus
is something students have been looking for. She notes that some recent events
have attracted more than 100 students.

“The great turnout is a testament to their interest,” she says.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

