

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# The Physics Behind Tumor Growth

January 20, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

New theory uses physics to predict the growth stages of cancerous tumors

Researchers at Duke University have developed a predictive theory for tumor
growth that approaches the subject from a new point of view. Rather than
focusing on the biological mechanisms of cellular growth, the researchers
instead use thermodynamics and the physical space the tumor is expanding into
to predict its evolution from a single cell to a complex cancerous mass.

The results appeared Jan. 15 in the journal Biosystems.

“When scientists think about cancer, the first thing that comes to mind is
biology, and they tend to overlook the physical reality of its growth
pattern,” said Ehsan Samei, professor of radiology at the Duke University
School of Medicine. “There are also issues of how a tumor interacts with its
surroundings and provides nutrients to its cells, which is an aspect of the
story that so far hasn’t been focused on very much.”

“Our theory uses fundamental concepts of how natural systems grow and
reorganize themselves to gain greater access to flowing systems,” said Adrian
Bejan, the J.A. Jones Distinguished Professor of Mechanical Engineering at
Duke. “It not only explains how this growth should happen, but also why it
must happen.”

The new work is based on the constructal law, which Bejan penned in 1996, that
states that for a system to survive, it must evolve to increase its access to
flow. For example, the human vascular system has evolved to provide blood flow
through a network of a few large arteries and many small capillaries. River
systems, tree branches and modern highway and road networks all reflect the
same forces at work.

In the paper, Bejan, Samei and doctoral student Thomas Sauer demonstrate how a
tumor’s growth and internal reorganization as it grows are directly tied to
its need to create greater access to flowing nutrients as well as conduits for
removing refuse. They use these insights to predict the growth of cell
clusters as a function of structure, and also to predict the critical cluster
sizes that mark the transitions from one distinct configuration to the next.

To validate their theory, the researchers compared their predictions with the
measurements of several independent studies of cancerous and non-cancerous
tumor growth patterns. The results show that their work provides a unifying
perspective on the growth of cell clusters on the smallest scales as well as
the large-scale dynamics of proliferating cells as described in
phenomenological models.

“As the tumor grows, the flow systems get large enough to create visible
currents through the vascularization of the tumor,” said Bejan. “Our theory
reveals the physics behind these sorts of dramatic transitions and predict
when they should happen.”

For the past 15 years, Samei has been working on computational, extremely
detailed models of patients to test new interventions and medical procedures
through so-called virtual clinical trials. These trials emulate the patient
and the procedures to enable medical evaluations that would otherwise be
prohibitively costly or unethical. Until recently, the tumors represented in
these virtual patients have been static. But with the new theory of tumor
growth, Samei is successfully creating dynamic, growing tumor models that may
open new pathways to cancer research.

Samei is currently in the process of generating tumor growth images from his
new models, mixing them with images taken from real patients, and testing
radiologists to see if they can tell the difference. So far, the results have
been promising.

“If the tumors don’t grow, the model isn’t realistic,” said Samei. “We want
our platform to be able to accurately model tumor growth so that we can answer
the very real question of how often a patient needs to be imaged to determine
whether or not their cancer is growing or shrinking.”

CITATION: “Cell and Extracellular Matrix Growth Theory and its Implications
for Tumorigenesis,” T.J. Sauer, E. Samei, A. Bejan. Biosystems, Jan. 15, 2021.
DOI: 10.1016/j.biosystems.2020.104331

# # #

## Related News

February 25, 2020

### Ambassador Inducts Bejan as Knight of the French Order of Academic Palms

November 07, 2017

### Bejan Named 2018 Franklin Institute Award Laureate

February 23, 2015

### Adrian Bejan Talks Constructal Law

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

