

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Nanocubes Simplify Printing And Imaging In Color And Infrared

December 14, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

New technology allows multispectral reactions on a single chip

Duke University researchers believe they have overcome a longstanding hurdle
to producing cheaper, more robust ways to print and image across a range of
colors extending into the infrared.

As any mantis shrimp will tell you, there are a wide range of "colors" along
the electromagnetic spectrum that humans cannot see but which provide a wealth
of information. Sensors that extend into the infrared can, for example,
identify thousands of plants and minerals, diagnose cancerous melanomas and
predict weather patterns, simply by the spectrum of light they reflect.

Current imaging technologies that can detect infrared wavelengths are
expensive and bulky, requiring numerous filters or complex assemblies in front
of an infrared photodetector. The need for mechanical movement in such devices
reduces their expected lifetime and can be a liability in harsh conditions,
such as those experienced by satellites.

In a new paper, a team of Duke engineers reveals a manufacturing technique
that promises to bring a simplified form of multispectral imaging into daily
use. Because the process uses existing materials and fabrication techniques
that are inexpensive and easily scalable, it could revolutionize any industry
where multispectral imaging or printing is used.

The results appear online December 14 in the journal Advanced Materials.

"It's challenging to create sensors that can detect both the visible spectrum
and the infrared," said Maiken Mikkelsen, the Nortel Networks Assistant
Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering and Physics at Duke.

"Traditionally you need different materials that absorb different wavelengths,
and that gets very expensive," Mikkelsen said. "But with our technology, the
detectors' responses are based on structural properties that we design rather
than a material's natural properties. What's really exciting is that we can
pair this with a photodetector scheme to combine imaging in both the visible
spectrum and the infrared on a single chip."

The new technology relies on plasmonics -- the use of nanoscale physical
phenomena to trap certain frequencies of light.

Engineers fashion silver cubes just 100 nanometers wide and place them only a
few nanometers above a thin gold foil. When incoming light strikes the surface
of a nanocube, it excites the silver's electrons, trapping the light's energy
-- but only at a certain frequency.

The size of the silver nanocubes and their distance from the base layer of
gold determines that frequency, while controlling the spacing between the
nanoparticles allows tuning the strength of the absorption. By precisely
tailoring these spacings, researchers can make the system respond to any
specific color they want, all the way from visible wavelengths out to the
infrared.

The challenge facing the engineers is how to build a useful device that could
be scalable and inexpensive enough to use in the real world. For that,
Mikkelsen turned to her research team, including graduate student Jon Stewart.

"Similar types of materials have been demonstrated before, but they've all
used expensive techniques that have kept the technology from transitioning to
the market," said Stewart. "We've come up with a fabrication scheme that is
scalable, doesn't need a clean room and avoids using million-dollar machines,
all while achieving higher frequency sensitivities. It has allowed us to do
things in the field that haven't been done before."

To build a detector, Mikkelsen and Stewart used a process of light etching and
adhesives to pattern the nanocubes into pixels containing different sizes of
silver nanocubes, and thus each sensitive to a specific wavelength of light.
When incoming light strikes the array, each area responds differently
depending on the wavelength of light it is sensitive to. By teasing out how
each part of the array responds, a computer can reconstruct what color the
original light was.

The technique can be used for printing as well, the team showed. Instead of
creating pixels with six sections tuned to respond to specific colors, they
created pixels with three bars that reflect three colors: blue, green and red.
By controlling the relative lengths of each bar, they can dictate what
combination of colors the pixel reflects. It's a novel take on the classic RGB
scheme first used in photography in 1861.

But unlike most other applications, the plasmonic color scheme promises to
never fade over time and can be reliably reproduced with tight accuracy time
and again. It also allows its adopters to create color schemes in the
infrared.

"Again, the exciting part is being able to print in both visible and infrared
on the same substrate," said Mikkelsen. "You could imagine printing an image
with a hidden portion in the infrared, or even covering an entire object to
tailor its spectral response."

This work was supported by the Air Force Office of Scientific Research Young
Investigator Research Program (AFOSR, Grant. No. FA9550-15-1-0301).

CITATION: Jon W. Stewart, Gleb M. Akselrod, David R. Smith & Maiken H.
Mikkelsen, "Toward Multispectral Imaging with Colloidal Metasurface Pixels",
Advanced Materials, 2016. DOI: 10.1002/adma.201602971

###

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

