

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Researchers Discover Bacterial DNA’s Recipe for Success

November 9, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

A single criterion predicts whether a genetic package such as antibiotic
resistance will thrive in a given environment

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have developed a new way of modeling
how potentially beneficial packages of DNA called plasmids can circulate and
accumulate through a complex environment that includes many bacterial species.
The work has also allowed the team to develop a new factor dubbed the
“persistence potential” that, once measured and computed, can predict whether
or not a plasmid will continue to thrive in a given population or gradually
fade into oblivion.

The researchers hope that their new model will lay the groundwork for others
to better model and predict how important traits such as antibiotic resistance
in pathogens or metabolic abilities in bacteria bred to clean environmental
pollution will spread and grow in a given environment.

The results appear online on November 4 in the journal Nature Communications.

In addition to the Darwinian process of handing down genes important for
survival from parents to offspring, bacteria also engage in a process called
horizontal gene transfer. Bacteria are constantly sharing genetic recipes for
new abilities across species by swapping different packages of genetic
material called plasmids with one another.

“In an examination of just a single bottle of seawater, there were 160
bacterial species swapping 180 different plasmids,” said Lingchong You,
professor of biomedical engineering at Duke. “Even in a single bottle of
water, using current methods to model plasmid mobility would far exceed the
collective computing power of the entire world. We’ve developed a system that
simplifies the model while maintaining its ability to accurately predict the
eventual results.”

The potential of any one of these genetic packages to become common throughout
a given population or environment, however, is far from certain. It depends on
a wide range of variables, such as how quickly the packages are shared, how
long the bacteria survive, how beneficial the new DNA is, what the trade-offs
are for those benefits and much more.

Being able to predict the fate of such a genetic package could help many
fields — perhaps most notably the spread of antibiotic resistance and how to
combat it. But the models required to do so in a lifelike scenario are too
complicated to solve.

“The most complex system we’ve ever been able to model mathematically is three
species of bacteria sharing three plasmids,” said You. “And even then, we had
to use a computer program just to generate the equations, because otherwise
we’d get too confused with the number of terms that were needed.”

In the new study, You and his graduate student, Teng Wang, created a new
framework that greatly reduces the complexity of the model as more species and
plasmids are added. In the traditional approach, each population is divided
into multiple subpopulations based on which plasmids they’re carrying. But in
the new system, these subpopulations are instead averaged into a single one.
This drastically cuts down on the number of variables, which increases in a
linear fashion as new bacteria and plasmids are added rather than
exponentially.

This new approach enabled the researchers to derive a single governing
criterion that allows the prediction of whether or not a plasmid will persist
in a given population. It’s based on five important variables: the cost to the
bacteria of having the new DNA, how often the DNA is lost, how quickly the
population is diluted by the flux through the population, how quickly the DNA
is swapped between bacteria, and how fast the population as a whole is
growing.

With measurements for these variables in hand, researchers can calculate the
population’s “plasmid persistence.” If that number is greater than one, the
genetic package will survive and spread, with higher numbers leading to
greater abundance. If less than one, it will fade away into oblivion.

“Even though the model is simplified, we’ve found that it’s reasonably
accurate under certain constraints,” said Wang. “As long as the new DNA
doesn’t place too great of a burden on the bacteria, our new framework will
succeed.”

You and Wang tested their new modeling approach by engineering a handful of
different synthetic communities, each with different strains of bacteria and
genetic packages for swapping. After running the experiments, they found that
the results fit quite well within the expectations of their theoretical
framework. And to go the extra mile, the researchers also took data from 13
previously published papers and ran their numbers as well. Those results also
supported their new model.

“The plasmid persistence criterion gives us the hope of using it to guide new
applications,” said You. “It could help researchers engineer a microbiome by
controlling the genetic flow to achieve a certain function. Or it can give us
guidance on what factors we can control to eliminate or suppress certain
plasmids from bacterial populations, such as those responsible for antibiotic
resistance.”

This research was supported by the National Institutes of Health (R01A1125604,
R01GM110494) and the David and Lucile Packard Foundation.

CITATION: “The Persistence Potential of Transferable Plasmids,” Teng Wang &
Lingchong You. Nature Communications, Nov. 9, 2020. DOI:
10.1038/s41467-020-19368-7

## Related News

December 05, 2018

### Distinguishing Resistance from Resilience to Prolong Antibiotic Potency

November 22, 2017

### Managing Antibiotics Not Enough to Reverse Resistance

April 11, 2016

### Antibiotics Don't Promote Swapping of Resistance Genes

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

