

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Pratt Welcomes Seven 2016-17 NSF Graduate Research Fellows

November 1, 2016

Six current students also won the competitive fellowships this year, giving
Duke Engineering a total of 13

###

_L-R (top): Ismael Perez, Nicholas Rogers, Garrett Wessler, Kevin Zhou; L-R
(bottom): Jorge Cardenas, Ellen Weburg, Sean Kelly, Samantha Hartzell, Brian
Allen; Not pictured: Nadia Abutaleb, Lucas Shores, Robert Mines, Luke
Calkins._

The Pratt School of Engineering welcomed seven incoming graduate students this
fall who received 2016-17 National Science Foundation Graduate Research
Fellowships.

Recipients don't necessarily know where they will be attending graduate school
when they receive the news of their award, making them highly recruited
graduate school candidates nationwide. Six current Pratt students also won the
prestigious fellowships, giving Duke Engineering a total of 13 Fellows.

> "Having such a high number of Fellows deciding that Duke was their best
> option is a credit to Duke's ongoing commitment to outstanding research,
> education and mentorship for its graduate students."
>
> Jennifer West, Associate Dean for Ph.D. Education

"Having such a high number of Fellows deciding that Duke was their best option
is a credit to Duke's ongoing commitment to outstanding research, education
and mentorship for its graduate students," said Jennifer West, the Fitzpatrick
Family University Professor of Engineering and Associate Dean for Ph.D.
Education at Duke. "We are very proud that so many of our outstanding students
have been recognized this year."

The National Science Foundation's Graduate Research Fellowship Program has
been awarded to promising young scientists since 1952, expanding to provide
support to 2,000 recipients each year in 2010. Chosen from a pool of 17,000
applicants, the recipients for 2016 represent a diverse group of scientific
disciplines and from all states, the District of Columbia, and U.S.
commonwealths and territories.

"The Graduate Research Fellowship Program is a vital part of our efforts to
foster and promote excellence in U.S. science, technology, engineering and
mathematics by recognizing talent broadly from across the nation," said Joan
Ferrini-Mundy, NSF assistant director for Education and Human Resources.
"These awards are provided to individuals who have demonstrated their
potential for significant research achievements, and they are investments that
will help propel this country's future innovations and economic growth."

The award provides three years of financial support within a five-year
fellowship period ($34,000 annual stipend and $12,000 cost-of-education
allowance to the graduate institution). That support is for graduate study
that leads to a research-based master's or doctoral degree in science and
engineering.

This year's NSF recipients include:

## Incoming NSF Graduate Fellows

  * Nadia Abutaleb (BME)
  * Jorge Cardenas (ECE)
  * Robert Mines (BME)
  * Ismael Perez (BME)
  * Nicholas Rogers (CEE)
  * Lucas Shores (BME)
  * Garrett Wessler (MEMS)

## Continuing Students

  * Brian Allen (BME)
  * William Calkins (MEMS)
  * Samantha Hartzell (CEE)
  * Sean Kelly (BME)
  * Ellen Weburg (BME)
  * Kevin Zhou (BME)

## Highlighted Project Summaries

Learn more about some of our NSF fellows, their research interests and why
they chose Duke in the highlights below.

### Nadia Abutaleb – Tissue Engineering from Stem Cells

Advisors: George Truskey and Nenad Bursac  
Department: BME  
Project: TBD

I am currently in a rotating laboratory program to get to know the various
projects I could choose to work on. The project I proposed in my NSF
application had to do with engineering _E coli_ to form an autonomous
sensing/responding system that could be used for several applications; the one
I highlighted in my proposal was biofuel production.

I know that project well, but my actual PhD project will be completely
unrelated because I have switched fields. I am now in tissue engineering, so
I'll be working on developing either tissue engineered blood vessels or muscle
bundles, and there are a lot of possibilities of what I might do with that. I
might study the effects of certain drugs, or try to model and study a specific
disease, or study the effects of immune cells on regeneration of the muscle.
These are all overall aims of the two labs I am rotating in, but I don't
actually have a project in either lab. For the few weeks that I'm rotating
right now, I'm doing a mini project working on differentiating endothelial
cells from induced pluripotent stem cells for use in tissue engineered blood
vessels.

### Jorge Cardenas – Printing the Electronics of Tomorrow

Advisor: Aaron Franklin  
Department: ECE  
Project: Nanomaterial Based Printed Electronics

Historically, efforts have been made to scale down the size and energy
consumption of electronics to increase the performance for computing
applications. As engineers continue to push the physical limitations of
electronics toward atomic scales, the associated costs and technical
challenges of doing so are exponentially rising. Meanwhile, there are new and
distinct application spaces for electronics that could be accessed using low-
cost fabrication techniques and a new class of electronic materials:
nanomaterials.

Aerosol jet printing is an additive manufacturing technique that can use
nanomaterial inks, such as carbon nanotubes, to print flexible, transparent,
and/or biocompatible electronics for distributed sensing and health diagnostic
applications. This printing approach opens the way for a myriad of
applications in the Internet-of-Things (IoT) space by avoiding the high costs
associated with manufacturing high-performance transistors, while drawing from
the advantageous electrical, mechanical and optical properties of
nanomaterials. Here at Duke, I will be developing nanomaterial inks and
corresponding printing parameters for an aerosol jet printer to explore
completely new applications for electronics that could never be realized using
the traditional semiconductor materials or their associated high-cost
fabrication methods.

I joined the Laboratory of Electronics from Nanomaterials at Duke as an REU
student during the summer between my junior and senior year of undergraduate
school. I initially chose the REU experience because I had yet to gain
exposure to the field of nanoelectronics. During this time, I worked with
Professor Aaron Franklin and his graduate students to develop a novel way to
increase the performance of 2D nanomaterial transistors at the nanoscale. I
began to see the complications and the physical limitations associated with
improving the performance of nanoscale devices and the costs it would impose
on a manufacturing process.

By the time I was applying to graduate school, I already knew I would like to
continue to develop physical electronics, but I was looking for a project that
I thought would make the biggest impact to technology in the long run. I had
already developed a great relationship with Professor Franklin and his group,
and I knew about his work in printed electronics from working with him over
the summer. Upon further research into printed electronics, I was confident
that it was the field to make a big impact on technology. So despite writing
my NSF application on developing nanoscale transistors, when I got to Duke I
decided to switch directions into the field of printed electronics.

### Ismael Perez – Developing Programs for Parallel Computing

Advisor: Amanda Randles  
Department: BME  
Project: TBD

My proposal for the NSF Fellowship was related to my past work in the Duke
master's program. The project dealt with mathematically modeling the spinal
circuitry, which produce activation signals for muscles to generate
locomotion. This will ultimately be incorporated in a computational model that
is able to optimize a spinal circuitry injury therapy called Neuromuscular
Electrical Stimulation. The spinal circuitry model was implemented serially
and therefore takes hours, if not days, to complete one simulation. In my
proposal, I mentioned computing resources such as Graphics Processing Units to
accelerate the simulations and even run more realistic ones. Another component
of my proposal dealt with the mathematical approximations using geometric
singular perturbation theory, since modeling the spinal circuitry incorporated
multiple time scales.

Although I am not continuing my work from my master's program, or even work
related to computational neuroscience, I do get to work in a research area
that deals with parallel computing and has a biomedical application. I'm very
interested in continuing to work with Duke faculty with expertise in parallel
computing.

### Nicholas Rogers – Shoring Up America's Wastewater System

Advisor: Mark Wiesner  
Department: CEE  
Project: Using Fluorescence Spectroscopy and Protein Characterization To
Detect Leaking Wastewater in Surface Water

In 2013, the American Society of Civil Engineers estimated that approximately
900 billion gallons of untreated sewage are discharged annually in the U.S.,
much of which stems from leaking wastewater infrastructure. This sewage causes
severe ecological problems. Although there have been several past attempts to
address this issue, past research has revealed inherent complexities in
detecting leaking wastewater.

Given the complexities associated with other strategies, multiple studies have
turned to characterizing dissolved organic matter (DOM) from wastewater
sources directly. But in recent years, studies have been published that
describe innovative approaches for characterizing and quantifying proteins in
wastewater, especially fluorescent aromatics. By utilizing these methods,
characterization of wastewater has become quicker and less expensive. I
propose that these same methodologies can be applied to raw wastewater to
detect leaking water infrastructure.

I chose to study at Duke for multiple reasons. In regard to research, the CEE
department has a great diversity of research foci, including microbiology and
aquatic chemistry. The professors at Duke have also developed many
collaborations both domestically and internationally, which could benefit the
quality and dissemination of my research. Beyond research, the professors at
Duke emphasized the necessity of a healthy work-life balance, which was a
quality I desired in my future graduate education.

I chose this specific project because it combined the concepts from my two
sustained research experiences as an undergraduate. Aside from performing a
study in characterizing surface waters in my hometown, I also performed
research related to microbiology and protein characterization. Hence, this
proposed project combined two of my interests in research while also giving me
some leeway to choose where I could conduct this study.

### Lucas Shores – Modulating the Immune Response

Advisor: Joel Collier  
Department: BME  
Project: Synthetic Peptide Vaccination for Therapeutic Use

I am working with synthetic peptides to modulate the immune system for
therapeutic benefit. By utilizing a modular, self-assembling synthetic peptide
system, our lab is working to control immune reactions with chemically defined
materials.

I chose Duke University for my graduate studies because of the welcoming and
collaborative environment as well as the caliber of research being conducted
here. I am currently in the process of defining my thesis project in my first
year at Duke.

### Garrett Wessler – Redefining the Solar Cell Industry

Advisor: David Mitzi  
Department: MEMS  
Project: Novel Materials for Photovoltaic and Sustainable Energy Applications

As a first-year PhD, my project is still gaining shape. However, throughout my
years at Duke I intend to develop and test innovative, new materials for solar
cells and sustainable energy applications. My focus is on thin-film compound
semiconductors, specifically chalcogenide-based materials. This focus is
inspired by the success of materials such as CdTe and Cu-In-Ga-Se in the
global solar cell market. In collaboration with computationally focused
research groups, I will predict what materials are worth investigating
experimentally. I will then fabricate, test and experiment with the new
material until I find sufficient electrical, structural and optical properties
to make a full photovoltaic device with the intention of surpassing the
performance of the established technologies.

When I began considering graduate school, I focused my search to universities
and research groups that investigate sustainable energy devices, specifically
solar cells. Duke caught my eye as a school that is quickly developing into a
hub for sustainable energy research and development, with close ties to
companies committed to the same goal. The quality of professors and Duke’s
commitment to graduate student success kept me going back to the university’s
website over and over again.

Besides the cutting-edge research, what first drew me to my specific research
project was the enthusiasm of the principal investigator, Professor David
Mitzi, and the collaborative nature of his research group. Also, the research
done in his lab has direct implications on the performance of real, tangible
solar cells. The underlying physics are studied to make new and improved
devices, and that is exactly what I would like to do during graduate school
and beyond. I believe the research in this group, including my own project,
has the possibility to truly affect the energy market’s landscape now and in
the future.

### Brian Allen – Patching a Damaged Human Heart

Advisor: Nenad Bursac  
Department: BME  
Project: Vascularization and Scale-Up of Engineered Cardiac Tissues

Irreversible loss of cardiomyocytes during myocardial infarction (MI) often
leads to functional deterioration, heart failure and, ultimately, death. While
promising, MI therapies involving injection of functional stem cell-derived
cardiomyocytes (CMs) into the heart are hampered by low survival and retention
of injected cells. This problem is greatly reduced when CMs are delivered as
an engineered cardiac tissue patch; however, the lack of functional
vasculature within tissue patches limits their thickness and ability to
deliver large numbers of CMs needed for human therapy. Because of this
limitation, current engineered tissues generate forces that are too weak to
significantly contribute to heart contractions. Vascularization by endothelial
cells (ECs) is critical to scaling up the function of cardiac tissues. I
differentiate induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) into CMs and ECs and co-
culture them in tissues to generate "blood vessel-like" structures. Implanting
these tissues could allow these structures to rapidly integrate with host
vasculature to ensure proper nutrient delivery to the implanted cells.

Unlike most programs in the country, the BME department at Duke does not
encourage rotations in multiple labs during the first year of the PhD.
Students are accepted directly into the lab where they will spend the entirety
of their graduate work. While this might deter students who lack well-defined
interests, I knew that I was interested in tissue engineering that could have
a big impact on society. Dr. Nenad Bursac specializes in cardiac and skeletal
muscle tissue engineering. Since heart disease is the number one killer on the
planet, I thought cardiac tissue engineering was exciting and had potential to
save numerous lives. Dr. Bursac is a passionate researcher with many ideas to
improve the function of cardiac tissues to move the field closer to clinical
translation. One of the most interesting aspects of cardiac tissue engineering
is the ability to see your tissues contract by eye, just like a beating heart!
In addition, I am excited about the ability to use human iPSCs to make
virtually any type of cell. I have differentiated CMs, ECs, and even
macrophages, which may be an important supporting cell type for
vascularization. Working with human cells is rewarding because I feel closer
to clinical translation than others who commonly use rodent cells, which are
much easier to obtain but less relevant. Especially important to me are the
personalities of the members of Dr. Bursac's lab. I will spend six years in
this lab, so I want to be sure I like and trust them. The members of my lab
are extremely nice and, importantly, are always willing to teach me something
that I do not know. I certainly made the right decision to work at Duke in Dr.
Nenad Bursac's lab.

### William "Luke" Calkins – Source Location With Mobile Robots

Advisor: Michael Zavlanos  
Department: MEMS  
Project: Stochastic Source Identification for Mobile Robots

This is not my original research project I proposed in the NSF Fellowship
application, but I am interested in using mobile robots to solve the "source
identification problem." Source Identification refers to determining the
location, shape and intensity of an unknown source emitting within a domain.
This could be a sound source, smoke source or any kind of source emitting
something whose resulting intensity or concentration field can be measured. By
having a robot take measurements of concentration within a room, the objective
is to determine the location, size and intensity of the source or multiple
sources.

A future experiment we wish to conduct is to use drones to track and follow
other drones by means of sound only. This is appealing because tracking by
means of cameras is difficult without light (i.e. at night) and in complex
environments where line of sight might not be available. To achieve this goal,
I am trying to solve the problem in a stochastic setting. This will lend
itself well to experiments because in reality, your model of the physical
phenomenon is not exact and is subject to underlying uncertainties. We need to
construct algorithms robust to these uncertainties.

I chose Duke mainly because of my adviser, Michael Zavlanos. I was interested
in robotics and control, and I found his work on distributed systems and
multi-agent control very interesting and appealing. After speaking with him a
few times, we got along well and I figured we would work well together. My
project has many future directions that need to be explored and I was very
interested in performing real experiments with robots to accomplish tasks that
were previously unimaginable. This project presented such an opportunity!

### Samantha Hartzell – Cultivating CAM Plants for the Arid World

Advisor: Amilcare Porporato  
Department: CEE  
Project: Advancing Model Predictions of Crassulacean Acid Metabolism (CAM)
Photosynthesis __

Crassulacean acid metabolism (CAM) photosynthesis is a process used by about
seven percent of plant species, mostly in arid and semiarid regions of the
world, where they may occupy 48 percent of all plant biomass. CAM plants,
which include pineapple, opuntia, agave, among many other cacti and
bromeliads, show a high degree of promise for cultivation in arid and marginal
lands. Due to a water use efficiency which is three-to-six fold higher than
plants with other photosynthesis types, CAM plants achieve a comparable annual
productivity with only 20 percent of the water demand. They also show a strong
tolerance to high temperatures, withstanding temperatures up to 70 C, compared
with 50-55 C for typical plants.

CAM plants, and, in particular, _Agave tequilana_ , show great potential for
use in biofuel production in areas of the world where cultivation of other
crops is not possible. They are able to maintain a high annual productivity
and sugar content even under poor conditions and with low inputs. More
widespread use of these crops in biofuels may help alleviate tensions between
food and fuel production since they could be cultivated on marginal land which
is not viable for other food crops.

While generally accepted and widely used models for C3 and C4 photosynthesis
exist, models of CAM plants have not allowed coupling with atmospheric
conditions until very recently. New advances have succeeded in capturing their
inherent circadian rhythm, which functions under continuous light conditions
but is also strongly affected by environmental variables such as light,
temperature and moisture. However, numerous questions about CAM photosynthesis
and its coupling to the water cycle, soil and atmosphere persist. The
motivation for my research is to advance CAM model predictions so that we may
understand the wider implications of CAM photosynthesis for the environment
and society. This will contribute to understanding of the trade-offs between
C3, C4 and CAM photosynthesis, as well as those between food security and
biofuel production in arid regions, which could benefit from CAM cash crop.

I first came to Duke for a Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU)
program during the summer after my junior year of college. I enjoyed the
experience, and came back to work for the same lab as a graduate student. I am
particularly interested in sustainable agriculture and believe that CAM
photosynthesis is an interesting, under-explored, and intellectually
challenging research topic. So far, I've been involved in both experimental
and theoretical work to advance this project.

### Kevin Zhou – Combining Emerging Imaging Technologies

Advisors: Joseph Izatt and Warren Warren  
Department: BME  
Project: TBD

I am jointly advised by Professors Joseph Izatt and Warren Warren, who have
different areas of expertise within the broad field of optical imaging, and we
are still narrowing down projects for me to pursue. The Izatt lab does
research in optical coherence tomography (OCT), which is like ultrasound
imaging except with light that can acquire structural images very rapidly. The
Warren lab does research on pump-probe imaging, an emerging technique that has
access to chemical information without the need for molecular probes. The idea
is, can we combine these imaging modalities to produce something even more
exciting? OCT has seen a lot of success in translation into medicine,
particularly in ophthalmic imaging, while pump-probe imaging is still largely
experimental. Can we port over some of the success from OCT to pump-probe?

I applied to graduate school with interests in optical imaging and image
analysis, and was excited by the prospect of working with two well-known
professors in two different areas of optics. They had wanted to collaborate in
the past, so I thought this would be an exciting opportunity to bring the two
fields together.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

