

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Predicting How Bad the Bends Will Be

March 15, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

Model warns deep-sea divers on severity of decompression sickness

Researchers have created a new model for predicting decompression sickness
after deep-sea dives that not only estimates the risk, but how severe the
symptoms are likely to be.

The US Navy Diving Manual may incorporate the model into its next update, as
will commercial products intended to help recreational divers plan their
ascents to avoid “the bends.”

The results appear online on March 15, 2017, in the journal PLOS ONE.

“The current guidelines only give you a probability as to whether or not
decompression sickness is likely to happen after a given dive,” said Laurens
Howle, professor of mechanical engineering and materials science at Duke, who
has been working on these models with the Navy for a decade. “This is the
first time we’ve been able to also address the likely severity of the
potential sickness, helping divers determine acceptable risk.”

All risks have two components—the likelihood of something bad happening and
just how bad that something is likely to be. Having a model that accurately
provides both aspects will allow divers to better plan safe depths and ascents
to help their bodies adjust—preventing painful and potentially fatal results.

Decompression sickness occurs when dissolved gasses such as nitrogen and
helium come out of solution inside the body, forming dangerous, painful
bubbles. This happens when divers ascend too quickly, and the pressure of
gasses within various tissues exceeds that of the surrounding pressure.

“Getting the bends is not fun,” said Greg Murphy, a doctoral candidate in
Howle’s laboratory, who has experienced the full severity spectrum of
decompression sickness firsthand. “While I was diving on the USS Oriskany, my
anchor broke and I shot to the surface. On the ride to the hospital, I could
barely breathe even with pure oxygen.”

No divers had to take such risks to gather data for the new model, as the Navy
has a dataset of more than 3,000 simulated dives conducted in a carefully
controlled hyperbaric chamber. Using that data, along with models of how
gasses are absorbed and released by human tissue, Howle crunched the numbers
to sort dives into six levels of potential severity.

Howle then divided the categories into a mild manifestation grouping (pain
only) and a serious manifestation grouping (likely neurological or
cardiopulmonary symptoms). He then assigned the same levels of acceptable risk
currently used by the Navy to each. With a slight tweak to the definition of
mild decompression sickness, the resulting model and boundaries of acceptable
risk closely matched the practices already in place in the Navy, making it a
useful predictive tool moving forward.

“Now that we have this model, we can use it to quickly and accurately predict
the likelihood and severity of decompression sickness simultaneously to make
decisions,” said Howle. “We’re also working to optimize the algorithm so that
it could operate on a diver-worn computer so adjustments and new predictions
could be made on the fly.”

This work was supported by Naval Sea Systems Command (N61331-06-C-0014,
N00024-13-C-4104).

CITATION: “The Probability and Severity of Decompression Sickness,” Laurens E.
Howle, Paul W. Weber, Ethan Hada, Richard D. Vann, Petar J. Denoble. PLOS ONE,
March, 15, 2017. DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0172665

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

