

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Printing Outside the Borders

September 26, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

Duke Engineering students design and 3D-print a prosthetic arm for a young
Haitian boy

As soon as Emily Shannon saw the little boy missing half of his left arm from
across the street, she knew she had to try to help him.

Designing and building a prosthetic limb, of course, is not an easy task. It’s
even harder when the prospective recipient is a Haitian boy living 1,200 miles
away. And you don’t speak Creole. And his country is on your school’s
Restricted Regions List. And you’ve barely begun delivering your first
finished prosthetics.

None of those hurdles mattered to Shannon, who had just completed her second
year at Duke University—where, coincidentally, she had joined a fledgling
student group focused on designing and 3D printing prosthetics.

And she knew she had to try.

“It was a total long shot,” said Shannon, who met Chris, as the Haitian boy’s
name turned out to be, while delivering meals in Haiti during a summer trip
with her church. “But I told our host that I was in this club where we
actually build arms, and asked if I could talk to the boy to see what we could
do?”

Their host agreed, and helped convey Shannon’s idea to Chris and his family,
who were happy to receive the help.

## Maker Club with a Mission

The club Shannon was referring to—called eNable—is an international community
that shares open-source files and designs for 3D-printing prosthetics. The
Duke chapter was founded by Henry Warder and Richard Beckett-Ansa, who
discovered the foundation through a local chapter in Virginia.

The duo got a small grant to start the club from the Duke Innovation Co-Lab, a
creativity incubator focused on exploring how new and emerging technologies
can fundamentally reshape the research, academic and service missions of the
university.

That was in the spring of 2016. After a presentation at the Co-Lab, the group
recruited Shannon, who became president when Warder and Beckett-Ansa
graduated. By the end of the fall semester, Duke eNable, advised by Michael
Faber, manager of the Duke Innovation Co-Lab, was more than 30 people strong,
working to deliver a handful of prosthetics to people in the Durham community.

One is being designed from scratch to provide a local baker with a custom
solution for decorating cakes. Another for an 11-year-old boy relies more on
shared files from the open-source community, but with a few tweaks, like
gadgets to help him ride a bike and use a slingshot. A third recipient,
recently graduated from pharmacy school, needs a design that will help her
pinch skin to deliver subcutaneous injections.

Whether based on open-source files or built from the ground up, all three are
challenging tasks.

“This is anything but plug and play,” said Gabriel Antoniak, a senior studying
biomedical engineering and design lead on the cake-decorating prosthesis.
“Even when you start with a file that looks good in the software, lots of
details need to be tailored. When you actually bring a prototype to a
recipient, it’s always a little tight here or a little loose there. And making
those changes to a source design file is never as easy as it sounds.”

And then, of course, there’s Chris, whose prosthesis presented an entirely
different set of challenges.

## Predicting Challenges

For the most part, 3D-printing prosthetic limbs is not an expensive
proposition. The Duke Co-Lab provides printing filaments for free, and extra
materials typically only involve things like screws, string, Velcro or foam.
All told, a finished device can be produced for a mere $20 - $30 in raw
materials.

But traveling to Haiti is expensive.

To fund Shannon’s quest, the group turned to The Given Limb Foundation, which
is dedicated to improving the lives of veterans and other individuals with
amputations or diminished use of their limbs. After pitching their project to
co-founders Martha McDade and Janis Rehlaender—both Duke Engineering alumni
themselves—the foundation agreed to provide funds for travel.

“That was the first indicator that we could actually make this happen,” said
Shannon. “That’s also when we realized that Haiti is on Duke’s Restricted
Regions List.”

The Restricted Regions List is a list of destinations deemed unsafe for travel
by Duke, with decisions being made by the Provost based on recommendations
from the Global Travel Advisory Committee (GTAC). While this presented another
obstacle to the group, it didn’t end their journey.

The group filled out a large proposal filled with references, forms and
comments on the safety of their proposed area of visit. After some
deliberation reaching all the way up to Provost Sally Kornbluth, the travel
was approved.

“The students were really great to work with,” noted Eric Mlyn, the Peter
Lange Executive Director of DukeEngage, assistant vice provost for civic
engagement and chair of the Provost’s GTAC. “They had a goal and they executed
each step to achieve it like a well-oiled machine.”

Now the group could finally book travel and begin the design process. The
problem was that they didn’t have any actual measurements.

“When we meet a recipient here in Durham, we have access to laser scanners,
rulers, tape measures and everything else you might need,” said Antoniak. “The
prototype for Chris’s prosthetic was based on pictures of his arm sitting next
to a ruler.”

To help mitigate this problem, Antoniak suggested they split their visit to
Haiti into two trips. The first would have Shannon and Antoniak bring several
prototypes to actually try on Chris’s arm while also allowing them to take
actual measurements. The second would see Shannon travel with club member Joel
Tewksbury to deliver the final product.

The group prepared for their first visit by printing three version of the
prosthetic arm—one at the dimensions of their best guess, one scaled up by 10
percent, and another scaled down by 10 percent. The goal was to have at least
one socket that would at least roughly fit to give them an idea of where they
stood.

As it turned out, the one scaled up by 10 percent was the closest. But it was
far from perfect.

“The prototype had the arm bending slightly away from his body, which is not
quite right,” said Antoniak. “While we were there, we took a plaster cast of
the arm so that we could pour a plaster mold once we returned. We also took a
3D scan using a structure scanner, and we took copious measurements with tape
measures and calipers. After that, it was ironing out a lot of little details
and designing an arm that, if changes needed to be made when we went back,
could be tweaked as effectively as possible.”

## Delivering a Final Product

After spending several weeks preparing for the final fitting, Shannon and
Tewksbury embarked on a five- day, four-night journey to deliver Chris’s
prosthetic arm. The task was nerve-wracking, as the group had to anticipate
any obstacles that might pop up that couldn’t be solved with what they brought
with them.

But the team’s hard work paid off, as only a few minor adjustments were
needed. The foam padding buffering between Chris’s arm and the prosthetic’s
plastic was a little loose, and the hand grip was not strong enough to allow
him to open a new water bottle. The former was a quick and easy fix, while the
latter only required a tightening of the gripping device and the addition of
non-slip material around the entire gripping device.

“We had to adjust the harness to get the size and tightness right as well, but
we had planned on that,” said Tewksbury. “As long as the adjustments didn’t
need us to design or print anything, we knew we could handle them.”

The team also brought replacement parts and a couple of larger sockets with
them, and, through the help of a translator and the little bit of Creole
Shannon had learned, showed Chris and his family how to swap pieces in and
out. Because Chris doesn’t use his amputated left arm for much, the muscles
aren’t as developed as they would be otherwise. As he gains new abilities with
his prosthetic, and as nature takes its course with a growing boy, his arm
will get bigger, and new sockets will be needed.

“The materials we delivered should be able to last Chris at least a few
years,” said Shannon. “That gives us time to figure out what our next steps
will be, whether that means rebuilding him a new arm down the line or getting
him in touch with a larger philanthropic organization that can transition him
to a more professional prosthetic.”

Whatever happens in the future, Chris and his family were very happy and
thankful for the group’s efforts. It’s an experience the three Duke seniors
won’t soon forget.

“The first thing that really struck me was the language barrier,” said
Antoniak. “Trying to convince someone to lie down and stick their arm straight
up in the air so you can take measurements made for some pretty interesting
experiences.”

“And even though we were strangers in their home telling them to do all of
these weird things, what struck me was the gratitude we saw in their faces,”
said Shannon. “They put up with everything and then said thank you at the end.
It was such an emotional interaction.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

