

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Printed Electronics Open Way for Electrified Tattoos and Personalized
Biosensors

October 3, 2019 | By Ken Kingery

The first demonstration of a fully print-in-place electronics technique is
gentle enough to work on surfaces as delicate as human skin and paper

Electrical engineers at Duke University have devised a fully print-in-place
technique for electronics that is gentle enough to work on delicate surfaces
including paper and human skin. The advance could enable technologies such as
high-adhesion, embedded electronic tattoos and bandages tricked out with
patient-specific biosensors.

The techniques are described in a series of papers published online July 9 in
the journal Nanoscale and on October 3 in the journal ACS Nano.

“When people hear the term ‘printed electronics,’ the expectation is that a
person loads a substrate and the designs for an electronic circuit into a
printer and, some reasonable time later, removes a fully functional electronic
circuit,” said Aaron Franklin, the James L. and Elizabeth M. Vincent Associate
Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Duke.

“Over the years there have been a slew of research papers promising these
kinds of ‘fully printed electronics,’ but the reality is that the process
actually involves taking the sample out multiple times to bake it, wash it or
spin-coat materials onto it,” Franklin said. “Ours is the first where the
reality matches the public perception.”

> “Some of the more exotic applications include intimately connected
> electronic tattoos that could be used for biological tagging or unique
> detection mechanisms, rapid prototyping for on-the-fly custom electronics,
> and paper-based diagnostics that could be integrated readily into customized
> bandages.”

The concept of so-called electronic tattoos were first developed in the late
2000s at the University of Illinois by John A. Rogers, who is now the Louis
Simpson and Kimberly Querrey Professor of Materials Science and Engineering at
Northwestern University. Rather than a true tattoo that is injected
permanently into the skin, Rogers’s electronic tattoos are thin, flexible
patches of rubber that contain equally flexible electrical components.

The thin film sticks to skin much like a temporary tattoo, and early versions
of the flexible electronics were made to contain heart and brain activity
monitors and muscle stimulators. While these types of devices are on their way
to commercialization and large-scale manufacturing, there are some arenas in
which they’re not well suited, such as when direct modification of a surface
by adding custom electronics is needed.

“For direct or additive printing to ever really be useful, you’re going to
need to be able to print the entirety of whatever you’re printing in one
step,” said Franklin. “Some of the more exotic applications include intimately
connected electronic tattoos that could be used for biological tagging or
unique detection mechanisms, rapid prototyping for on-the-fly custom
electronics, and paper-based diagnostics that could be integrated readily into
customized bandages.”

In the July paper, Franklin’s lab and the laboratory of Benjamin Wiley,
professor of chemistry at Duke, developed a novel ink containing silver
nanowires that can be printed onto any substrate at low temperatures with an
aerosol printer. It yields a thin film that maintains its conductivity without
any further processing. After being printed, the ink is dry in less than two
minutes and retains its high electrical performance even after enduring a 50
percent bending strain more than a thousand times.

In a video accompanying the first paper, graduate student Nick Williams prints
two electronically active leads along the underside of his pinky finger.
Toward the end of his finger, he connects the leads to a small LED light. He
then applies a voltage to the bottom of the two printed leads, causing the LED
to stay lit even as he bends and moves the finger.

In the second paper, Franklin and graduate student Shiheng Lu take the
conductive ink a step further and combine it with two other printable
components to create functional transistors. The printer first puts down a
semiconducting strip of carbon nanotubes. Once it dries, and without removing
the plastic or paper substrate from the printer, two silver nanowire leads
that extend several centimeters from either side are printed. A non-conducting
dielectric layer of a two-dimensional material, hexagonal boron nitride, is
then printed on top of the original semiconductor strip, followed by a final
silver nanowire gate electrode.

With today’s technologies, at least one of these steps would require the
substrate to be removed for additional processing, such as a chemical bath to
rinse away unwanted material, a hardening process to ensure layers don’t mix,
or an extended bake to remove traces of organic material that can interfere
with electric fields.

But Franklin’s print-in-place requires none of these steps and, despite the
need for each layer to dry completely to avoid mixing materials, can be
completed at the lowest overall processing temperature reported to date.

“Nobody thought the aerosolized ink, especially for boron nitride, would
deliver the properties needed to make functional electronics without being
baked for at least an hour and a half,” said Franklin. “But not only did we
get it to work, we showed that baking it for two hours after printing doesn’t
improve its performance. It was as good as it could get just using our fully
print-in-place process.”

Franklin doesn’t see his printing method replacing large-scale manufacturing
processes for wearable electronics. But he does see a potential value for
applications such as rapid prototyping or situations where one size doesn’t
fit all.

“Think about creating bespoke bandages that contain electronics like
biosensors, where a nurse could just walk over to a work station and punch in
what features were needed for a specific patient,” said Franklin. “This is the
type of print-on-demand capability that could help drive that.”

This work was supported by the Department of Defense Congressionally Directed
Medical Research Program (W81XWH-17-2-0045), the National Institutes of Health
(1R21HL141028) and the National Science Foundation (ECCS-1542015).

CITATIONS: “Silver nanowire inks for direct-write electronic tattoo
applications.” Nicholas X. Williams, Steven Noyce, Jorge A. Cardenas, Matthew
Catenacci, Benjamin J. Wiley and Aaron D. Franklin. Nanoscale, Issue 30, Aug.
14, 2019. DOI: 10.1039/c9nr03378e

“Flexible, Print-in-place 1D-2D Thin-film Transistors Using Aerosol Jet
Printing.” Shiheng Lu, Jorge A. Cardenas, Robyn Worsley, Nicholas X. Williams,
Joseph B. Andrews, Cinzia Casiraghi and Aaron D. Franklin. ACS Nano, Oct. 3,
2019. DOI: 10.1021/acsnano.9b04337

# # #

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

