

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Probability, not certainty

July 10, 2013 | by Ashley Yeager

David Dunson is a statistician who helps neuroscientists and physicians to
better diagnose illnesses.

from _Duke Engineering: Leading Research 2013_

David Dunson is a statistician who helps neuroscientists and physicians to
better diagnose illnesses.

“Right now, if you combine data from different brain imaging modes—fMRI,
structural MRI and other variants of the scan—there are billions of data
points on that one patient. Making sense of all of that is a problem,” said
Dunson, a professor in statistics and electrical and computer engineering at
Duke.

Working with others in the new Information Initiative at Duke and in the
medical center, he is developing a project where multiple physicians diagnose
a patient’s mental illness clinically and then use data from multiple imaging
modes to come up with a method to predict mental health conditions
computationally based on brain scan images.

This is a “big data” problem because patients don’t have just one type of
information. Their record is a collection of different kinds of data—images,
recordings, writing, and genetic profiles—that are all mismatched. Dunson
tries to pull all of that information together, using Bayesian statistics—a
method for understanding uncertainty based on mathematical probabilities—to
search for patterns that could identify a patient’s condition from all of the
individual’s entire medical record rather than a short doctor visit and a few
diagnostic tests.

Dunson’s expertise in Bayesian statistics adds a diverse perspective to the
big data group. A recent winner of the prestigious COPSS Award, given annually
by the Committee of Presidents of Statistical Societies to a person under the
age of 40 in recognition of outstanding contributions to the profession of
statistics, Dunson says he thinks about problems “quite a bit” differently
than traditional mathematicians, computer scientists and engineers.

“A distinct characteristic of a statistician who works on big data is that we
care about uncertainty and doing inferences on that uncertainty,” said Dunson.
He said he doesn’t want to come up with one estimate, or best guess, that
describes what he calls the low-dimensional structures, or patterns in the
data. “Instead, I like to come up with a probability distribution of low-
dimensional structures that are consistent with the data and information I
have, which is how I do analyses differently than most people in a big data
project.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

