

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Artificial Blood Vessels Mimic Rare Accelerated Aging Disease

August 14, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

Lab-grown blood vessels provide platform for studying premature aging syndrome
and other rare diseases

Biomedical engineers have grown miniature human blood vessels that exhibit
many of the symptoms and drug reactions associated with Hutchinson-Gilford
Progeria Syndrome—an extremely rare genetic disease that causes symptoms
resembling accelerated aging in children.

The technology will help doctors and researchers screen potential therapeutics
for the disease more rapidly, with the goal of eventually creating a platform
for personalized screening. The technique also offers a new way to study other
rare diseases and could provide insights into treating heart disease in the
elderly.

The study was published online on August 15 in the journal Scientific Reports.

"One of the drugs currently prescribed for this disease extends patients'
lives by three months, and that's been considered a major feat," said Leigh
Atchison, a doctoral candidate in biomedical engineering at Duke University
and first author of the study. "They're looking for anything that will extend
lifespan by even a few months. It's that devastating."

Hutchinson-Gilford Progeria Syndrome—or simply progeria for short—is a non-
hereditary genetic disease caused by a single-point mutation in the genome. It
is so rare and so deadly that there are currently only about 250 known cases
worldwide.

Progeria is triggered by a defective protein called progerin that accumulates
outside of a cell's nucleus rather than becoming part of its structural
support system. This causes the nucleus to take on an abnormal shape and
inhibits its ability to divide. The resulting symptoms look much like
accelerated aging, and affected patients usually die of heart disease brought
on by weakened blood vessels before the age of 14.

"Progeria isn't considered hereditary, because nobody lives long enough to
pass it on," said George Truskey, the R. Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Professor
of Biomedical Engineering at Duke. "There are currently 75 children in
clinical trials, which is amazing given the rarity of the disease. But with 15
compounds under consideration for trials, the math just ultimately won't work
out. You can't try all of these drugs or various combinations of them in
humans, so we're hoping our platform will provide an alternative way to test
them."

Blood vessels are difficult to simulate because their walls have multiple
layers of cells, including the endothelium and the media. The endothelium is
the innermost lining of all blood vessels that interacts with circulating
blood. The media is made mostly of smooth muscle cells that help control the
flow and pressure of the blood within.

Researchers believe that it is the deterioration of these smooth muscle cells
that ultimately leads to the heart disease and failure that so often kills
patients with progeria. But because there are so few people with progeria, it
is extremely difficult to study in the patients themselves.

"Because it's such a hard disease to study, we wanted to see if we could
create a platform using human cells that more accurately represents the
disease and then use it for drug testing," said Atchison. "So we tried to grow
miniature artificial blood vessels using induced pluripotent stem cells
derived from cells taken from patients with progeria."

The plan worked. In just four weeks of growth, the engineered blood vessels
exhibit many of the symptoms seen in people with the disease—symptoms that
simple cell cultures have not been able to recreate. The blood vessels also
respond similarly to pharmaceuticals, revealing nuances into how current
therapies are working.

While the blood vessels showed improved function after a week of being dosed
with an analogue of rapamycin, a drug known as everolimus, calcification and
other symptoms of cardiovascular disease remained. This implies that the drug
is helping the smooth muscle cells work better, but not remedying the
underlying symptoms.

"That's why our system could be so useful," said Atchison. "It could tell us
exactly what the drug is doing in a quicker, more high-throughput manner, and
whether we need a second treatment to address other aspects of the disease."

The success may aid the study of other rare diseases, too.

"The major thing we're happy with is that this serves as a proof of principle
for creating a vascular model of a rare disease in the laboratory to better
understand it and hopefully develop a therapy," said Truskey.

The research may also provide insight into why some elderly people become
especially prone to heart disease. Many heart patients have shown the same
buildup of the progerin protein, so researchers believe there may be a link
between the two conditions.

There are, of course, limitations to the new artificial blood vessels. They
are not connected to any outside organs, nor are they embedded in the
complicated biology of a living human being.

"We only created smooth muscle cells from progeria patients in this study, but
their endothelial cells might play a major role as well," said Atchison. "If
we can incorporate endothelial cells derived from the patients' own cells into
the model as well, then we can create a more personalized testing platform for
these patients."

This research was supported by the National Institutes of Health (UH3TR000505,
R01HL126784), the National Science Foundation (GRFP Grant #1106401), the
Maryland Stem Cell Research Fund, and the Progeria Research Foundation.

CITATION: "A Tissue Engineered Blood Vessel Model of Hutchinson-Gilford
Progeria Syndrome Using Human iPSC-derived Smooth Muscle Cells," Leigh
Atchison, Haoyue Zhang, Kan Cao, George A. Truskey. Scientific Reports, Aug.
15, 2017. DOI: 10.1038/s41598-017-08632-4

###

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

