

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Programming Computational Wind Tunnels to Save Millions

April 14, 2014

MEMS graduate student Fanny Besem is developing and running computer models
for computational fluid dynamics as part of Duke's aeroelasticity group

It famously took Thomas Edison thousands of attempts to settle on a practical
design for the incandescent light bulb. If each crack at a solution had cost
him hundreds of millions of dollars, however, he might not have been so keen
on using a build ‘em and bust ‘em approach.

The companies designing turbines for jet engines and electricity production
face such challenges today. With multiple rotors spinning in excess of 15,000
revolutions per minute facing incoming airflows of hundreds of miles per hour,
the dynamics of the air’s behavior becomes fodder for an engineering student’s
worst nightmare. And although computer simulations of even simplified systems
can take weeks to run even on modern supercomputers, it is well worth the time
and effort.

From initial designs to being bolted to an aircraft’s wing, a typical jet
engine costs more than a billion dollars to produce. For example, the design
of the GE90—the jet engine that powers the Boeing 777—was begun in 1990, but
GE didn’t see a dime of profit for their labors until 2010.

“The entire industry runs these complex simulations,” explains Fanny Besem, a
graduate student in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science’s aeroelasticity group. “It’s simply too expensive to design an
engine, test it and then redesign it.”

Besem is one of the engineers in Duke’s world-class aeroelasticity group
developing and running computer models for computational fluid dynamics (CFD).
Up until last year, she was working to find shortcuts in the time- and
computationally-intensive process of orchestrating a computational wind
tunnel. If engineers could take only a fraction of the variables into account
and still predict the solution for an entire compressor, it would save
everyone a lot of trouble.

The problem, however, is that nobody really knows which variables can be
ignored and which really matter in finding a reliable solution. How many blade
rows does it take to accurately model a compressor? Can you ignore the
distance between the rotor blades and engine casing? When do the vibrations in
the air couple with the natural frequencies of the blades to produce problems,
like an opera singer breaking a glass with a single note?

To find out, Besem began working on a collaborative project last year headed
by Duke, Purdue University and Rolls-Royce, which is funded by the GUIde5
Consortium—a partnership between numerous universities, government agencies
and private companies to find answers to challenges too interdisciplinary and
complex for any one institution to tackle on its own.

The five-year experiment, whose computational side is headed by Besem’s
doctorate advisor Robert Kielb, associate chair of the Department of
Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science, is based on the campus of Purdue
University. There, researchers have set up a scaled-down Rolls-Royce-designed
compressor and installed a dizzying array of sensors intended to take airflow
measurements throughout the chamber.

“That way we can compare the results of our CFD simulations with actual data
from a real system,” explains Besem. “We can make sure our models are accurate
and use any inconsistencies to improve our calculations.”

Coincidentally, Besem may have flown on a similar jet engine model to pursue
her research interests in the United States. Born, raised and educated through
undergraduate school in Belgium, she earned dual master’s degrees from Duke
and the Royal Institute of Technology in Sweden through a European Union
program. Not coincidentally, her advisor Kielb is also an affiliated professor
of the Swedish Royal Institute of Technology.

After finishing her master’s program in turbomachinery, she returned home to
Belgium. But after a short job search, she decided to return to Durham and
pursue a PhD.

Besem won’t get to see the entire Purdue/Rolls-Royce/Duke project through to
completion, however, as it the five-year project is just beginning and she is
scheduled to graduate in May 2015. She’s hoping to eventually land a job with
a jet engine company in the United States. Due to her Belgian heritage and the
fact that many engine contracts are linked to the Federal government, however,
there will likely be additional hurdles for her to overcome. But that doesn’t
dampen her spirits or ambition in the meantime.

“I really like it here,” says Besem. “I’m glad I stayed.”

And so are her advisors at Duke.

“Only the best students are selected to enter the aeroelasticity graduate
program at both the Royal Institute of Technology and Duke, and Fanny is one
of the best,” says Kielb. “Fanny has been, and continues to be, successful
because of her high intellectual ability, organizational skill, leadership and
strong determination. You can see it in how she develops creative solutions
and mentors other graduate and undergraduate students in their research
projects. She’s an awesome Ph.D. student.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

