

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Catch a Wave and You’re Peering inside of the World

July 31, 2018

Qing Huo Liu uses advanced modeling techniques to design electromagnetic
performances and locate reserves of oil and gas

For the past two decades, Qing Huo Liu has been working at Duke Engineering to
solve computational problems dealing with complex wave fields ranging from
electromagnetic to seismic. With a proven method for analyzing these types of
data, he has impacted numerous industries including electronics, airplanes and
petroleum.

In a recent acknowledgement of his career, Liu was named the winner of the
2018 Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Antennas and
Propagation Society (APS) Harrington-Mittra Award in Computational
Electromagnetics. Liu was cited for his “pioneering contributions to spectral
and multiscale methods in computational electromagnetics, and to inverse
scattering and imaging of complex media.”

Electromagnetic fields pervade the modern world around us. Every electrical
system big and small creates its own field, which leads to a complex pattern
of interactions. Most of the time these fields aren’t worth worrying about.
But in some applications where the systems are extremely sensitive or close
together, their details are absolutely crucial, and it’s Liu’s job to help
model and understand them.

“If you want an aircraft to have a small signature from radar, you have to
model how electromagnetic waves interact with the large structure,” said Liu,
professor of electrical and computer engineering at Duke.

A classic approach to modeling an airplane’s electromagnetics is to break the
problem down into small pieces, calculate the field inside each, and add them
all back together. This approach, however, requires far too much computational
power to perform efficiently. Liu’s contribution has been to develop
“spectral” computational methods that take into account a better understanding
of electromagnetic fields. This allows the model to use a larger grid, greatly
reducing the complexity of the resulting calculations.

While this works well for large-scale problems, different mathematics is
required for modeling smaller devices, such as the airplane’s antenna. For
understanding how best to integrate tiny but critical components such as this,
Liu has developed “multiscale” computational methods that manage to combine
the different approaches needed for the different scales.

Another industry that requires a rock-solid understanding of electromagnetic
fields is computing. With so many electrical components operating in a
confined space, their electromagnetic fields are bound to affect one another.

Liu has teamed with industry partners such as Intel on these issues to help
optimize the electrical performance of integrated systems. It’s work that won
him the 2011 IEEE Transactions on Components, Packaging and Manufacturing
Technology Best Paper Award.

> “That’s how I’ve formed my career. I’ve learned how to develop our methods
> and how to apply them to many different areas.”

“Mathematicians have been working on these sorts of problems for a long time,”
said Liu. “It’s my job as an electrical engineer to figure out how to apply
these approaches to systems such as electromagnetic fields.”

The utility of Liu’s approaches doesn’t end with electromagnetics. It can be
applied to most any situation where waves can propagate—even the Earth’s
crust.

The majority of Liu’s current research focuses on modeling how waves travel
through the ground to help the oil and gas industries image and locate
potential reserves for extraction. This requires combining knowledge of how
electromagnetic waves and acoustic waves travel through the complex ground we
stand on with other geological concepts such as fluid flow.

“You can take measurements from the ground or inside of a borehole to image
areas underground,” said Liu. “But it’s difficult because the media
underground is even more complex than the human body.”

Speaking of the human body, Liu also works with microwaves, optics and
ultrasound to help create medical images. While it’s a different type of math
with its own challenges, Liu says the ideas behind the underlying algorithms
remain the same.

“That’s how I’ve formed my career,” said Liu. “I’ve learned how to develop our
methods and how to apply them to many different areas.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

