

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Ramanujam Named Inaugural Recipient of Carr Professorship

September 24, 2014 | By Ken Kingery

A gift from Suzie W. and Fred M. Fehsenfeld Jr. has funded a new professorship
in honor of senior associate dean Judge Carr and completes the $10 million
Vinik Faculty Challenge.

Nimmi Ramanujam has been named the inaugural Robert W. Carr Jr. Professor of
Biomedical Engineering in Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering.

The new named professorship was made possible by a generous gift from Suzie W.
and Fred M. Fehsenfeld Jr., who earned a degree in mechanical engineering from
Duke in 1973. The professorship was named for Robert W. “Judge” Carr Jr. E’71,
senior associate dean for development and alumni affairs at Pratt, who has
dedicated nearly 25 years of service to Duke.

Ramanujam, the inaugural holder of the professorship, researches novel optical
spectroscopy technologies to identify cancerous tissue. She also founded the
Global Women’s Health Technologies Center, which is dedicated to fostering
research, training and education in women’s diseases both at home and in
developing nations.

The Fehsenfelds’ gift will be matched through the Vinik Faculty Challenge
Fund, a dollar-for-dollar matching fund earmarked to create 10 associate or
full professorships dedicated to addressing problems that affect quality of
life. The Carr Professorship, along with two more gifts that have recently
been finalized, marks the fulfillment of the $10 million challenge.

An Investiture Ceremony took place on Friday, September 19, in the lobby of
the Fitzpatrick Center at Duke University.

“I couldn’t be more pleased with Nimmi’s selection to be the first recipient
of this professorship,” Fehsenfeld said during the investiture ceremony. “She
is a rare individual—brilliant technically and driven to make a real
difference in the world, but also humble and gracious.”

Ramanujam joined Duke’s faculty in 2005 and quickly established the Tissue
Optical Spectroscopy laboratory, which seeks to develop faster, more accurate
ways of detecting cancerous tissue. For example, by shining light on tissue
and measuring how wavelengths are scattered or absorbed, clinicians could
determine in real time whether or not they have successfully removed all of a
patient’s cancerous tissue during a surgery.

Ramanujam also focuses her energy on making existing technologies better
suited for use in developing nations. One example is a hand-held colposcope
that can connect wirelessly to a tablet or smartphone so that women can take
pictures of their own cervix and send them to their physicians, eliminating
the need for a physical exam at a potentially distant clinic.

“I had an opportunity to meet Fred Fehsenfeld in the spring,” said Ramanujam.
“We talked for several hours about everything from women's health to education
to elephant migration in East Africa. I felt that I had met a kindred spirit!

“It was a really pleasant surprise and quite an honor to be selected to be the
first recipient of this professorship,” she said. “And it means even more
knowing that this was established by the Fehsenfelds in honor of our very own
Judge Carr.”

Carr graduated from Duke with a civil engineering degree in 1971. After 18
years working in the construction business, he returned to his alma mater as
assistant director of development and took charge of the engineering school’s
Annual Fund, which raised roughly $500,000 per year at the time. Twenty-five
years later, the Annual Fund now exceeds $3.4 million in gifts per year, and
Carr continues to build the program.

“It was a shock and a surprise,” said Carr of the moment when Fehsenfeld
announced his intention to name the professorship after him. “I had no idea
what he was doing until after he’d done it. Truthfully, I was speechless and
humbled.”

“Judge Carr walks his talk and has been a longtime supporter of the whole Duke
University system,” said Fehsenfeld during the investiture ceremony. “My
family has a passion to recognize people we refer to as unsung heroes, and
Judge is the heart and soul of Duke engineering for so many alumni. This
recognition is richly deserved.”

Carr cites two achievements as his proudest moments during his tenure raising
funds for Duke engineering. The first was a scholarship matching program
provided by John Chambers, in which the school was able to raise 20 new
$100,000 scholarships in a single month. The second was helping to find donors
to fund 10 new professorships in less than two years to match the $10 million
gifted to the school by Jeffrey N. Vinik and his wife, Penny.

The Fehsenfelds’ gift marks the eighth professorship funded by the Vinik
Challenge, and Carr confirms that two additional gifts yet to be announced
will complete the Viniks’ vision for 10 new associate or full professorships
dedicated to addressing problems that affect the quality of life.

“I am pleased and excited that Duke has been able to complete the challenge I
set forth to hire more of the impressive faculty members I’ve come to expect
from the engineering school,” said Vinik, who earned an engineering degree
from Duke in 1981 before receiving an MBA from Harvard Business School in 1985
and founding his own asset management firm. “It says a lot both about the
engineering school and its alumni that they were able to find 10 more donors
and fill 10 professorships in less than two years.

“Nimmi is an extremely deserving candidate,” Vinik continued. “It is faculty
members like her that are the key to providing students with an exceptional
educational experience both in the classroom and in the real world. It's
critical that we continue to invest in the fields and in the people who will
shape the world's future.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

