

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Rames and Cox Named Newest Barr-Spach Medicine and Engineering Scholars

August 17, 2020 | By Alexis Kessenich

Endowed scholarship supports med students as they pursue engineering degree

Click here to read the full story on the MEDx site

Duke medical students Jess Rames and Daniel Cox have been chosen as the newest
recipients of MEDx’s Barr-Spach Medicine and Engineering Scholarship.

The scholarship will support the pair as they complete a Master of Engineering
degree through the Pratt School’s innovative Doctor of Medicine-Master of
Engineering (MD-MEng) dual degree program.

Engineering has rapidly changed the medical field in recent years, from the
types of medical interventions offered to the way medicine is practiced. “With
formal engineering training through the MD-MEng program, Duke medical students
are better equipped to serve as translators between the two disciplines,” says
Donna Crenshaw, executive director of MEDx.

“The value of combining these degrees,” says Brad Fox, program director and
associate dean for master’s programs at the Pratt School of Engineering, “is
that it provides additional knowledge and understanding to help graduates
design novel solutions to complex medical problems using engineering
solutions.”

The scholarship was created as a gift from Maynard Ramsey III, M/69, G’75, who
established an endowment to honor his Duke mentors, biomedical engineering
professor and associate professor of pediatrics Roger C. Barr and pediatric
cardiologist Madison S. Spach.

### Training Two

Rames and Cox are the second class of scholars to pursue the MD-MEng dual
degree option with the Barr-Spach scholarship and the first class to include
two students simultaneously.

“The MD-MEng trainees will not only be well-versed in clinical and population-
health challenges, but they will also be integrated into and speak the
language of the engineering community, which will work to provide solutions to
these challenges,” adds Geoff Ginsburg, MEDx director.

The program is a signature example of the kinds of interdisciplinary training
opportunities that MEDx seeks to foster.

“MEDx aims to create innovation at the interface of medicine and engineering,
and the MD-MEng program lays the groundwork for developing the next generation
of researchers who will be more prepared to carry out cross-disciplinary
research and lead programs at this nexus,” Ginsburg says. “We’re excited to
support two scholars this year as they embark on this less conventional career
path as Barr-Spach Scholars.”

Visit the MEDx website to learn more.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

