

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Rapid Test Identifies Antibody Effectiveness Against COVID-19 Variants

December 3, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

Test could measure patient immunity against multiple COVID-19 variants such as
Omicron and Delta at once and inform which synthetic monoclonal antibody to
use for treatments

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have devised a test to quickly and
easily assess how well a person’s neutralizing antibodies fight infection from
multiple variants of COVID-19 such as Delta and the newly discovered Omicron
variant.

This test could potentially tell doctors how protected a patient is from new
variants and those currently circulating in a community or, conversely, which
monoclonal antibodies to treat a COVID-19 patient. The test is described
online December 3 in the journal Science Advances.

“We currently really have no rapid way of assessing variants, neither their
presence in an individual, nor the ability of antibodies we possess to make a
difference,” said Cameron Wolfe, associate professor of medicine at the Duke
University School of Medicine. “It's one of the lingering fears that, as we
successfully vaccinate more and more people, a variant may emerge that more
radically evades vaccine-induced antibody neutralization. And if that fear
came true – if Omicron turned out to be a worst-case scenario – how would we
know quickly enough?”

“While developing a point-of-care test for COVID-19 antibodies and biomarkers,
we realized there could be some benefit to being able to detect the ability of
antibodies to neutralize specific variants, so we built a test around that
idea,” said Ashutosh Chilkoti, the Alan L. Kaganov Distinguished Professor and
Chair of Biomedical Engineering at Duke. “It only took us a week or two to
incorporate the Delta variant in our test, and it could easily be expanded to
also include the Omicron variant. All we need is the spike protein of this
variant, which many groups across the world — including our group at Duke— are
feverishly working to produce.”

The researchers have dubbed their test the COVID-19 Variant Spike-
ACE2-Competitive Antibody Neutralization assay, or CoVariant-SCAN for short.
The test’s technology hinges on a polymer brush coating that acts as a sort of
non-stick coating to stop anything but the desired biomarkers from attaching
to the test slide when wet. The high effectiveness of this non-stick shield
makes the test incredibly sensitive to even low levels of its targets. The
approach allows researchers to print different molecular traps on different
areas of the slide to catch multiple biomarkers at once.

In this application, researchers print fluorescent human ACE2 proteins—the
cellular targets of the virus’s infamous spike protein—on a slide. They also
print spike proteins specific to each variant of COVID-19 at different
specific locations. When the test is run, the ACE2 proteins detach from the
slide and are caught by the spike proteins still attached to the slide,
causing the slide to glow.

But in the presence of neutralizing antibodies, the spike proteins are no
longer able to grab on to the ACE2 proteins, making the slide glow less,
indicating the effectiveness of the antibodies. By printing different variants
of the COVID-19 spike protein on different portions of the slide, researchers
can see how effective the antibodies are at preventing each variant from
latching onto their human cellular target simultaneously.

In the paper, the researchers tested the technology a number of different
ways. They tried monoclonal antibodies either derived from real-life patients
or from Regeneron’s commercial prophylactic treatment. They also tested plasma
taken from healthy vaccinated people and those currently infected with the
virus.

“In all of our tests, the results largely mimicked what we’ve been seeing in
the literature,” said Jake Heggestad, a PhD student working in the Chilkoti
lab. “And in this case, not finding anything new is a good sign, because it
means our test is working just as well as the methods currently being used.”

While they produce similar results, the critical difference between the
CoVariant-SCAN and current methods is the speed and ease with which it can
produce results. Typical current approaches require isolating live virus and
culturing cells, which can take 24 hours or more and requires a wide variety
of safety precautions and specially trained technicians. The CoVariant-SCAN,
in contrast, does not require live virus, is easy to use in most settings and
takes less than an hour—potentially just 15 minutes—to produce accurate
results.

Moving forward, Heggestad and the Chilkoti lab are working to streamline the
technique into a microfluidic chip that could be mass produced and report
results with only a few drops of blood, plasma or other liquid sample
containing antibodies. This approach has already been proven to work on a
similar test that can distinguish COVID-19 from other coronaviruses.

“We would love to have real-time visibility of the emerging variants and
understand who still has functional immunity,” Wolfe said. “Additionally, this
hints that there might be a technique whereby you could quickly assess which
synthetic monoclonal antibody might be best to administer to a patient with a
particular emergent variant. Currently we really have no real-time way of
knowing that, so we rely on epidemiological data that can track weeks behind.”

“The reverse is also true,” Wolfe continued. “To be able to pre-screen an
individual's antibodies and predict whether they were sufficiently protected
against a particular variant they are perhaps about to run into while
travelling, or that is emerging in their area. We have no way of doing that at
the present time. But a test like the CoVariant-SCAN could make all of these
scenarios possible.”

This work was supported by the National Institutes of Health (K08HL130557, R01
AI159992, P30-CA014236, UC6AI058607), the National Science Foundation
(CBET2029361), and the Department of Defense/Defense Advanced Research
Projects Agency (HR0011-17-2-0069).

CITATION: “Rapid Test to Assess the Escape of SARS-Cov-2 Variants of Concern,”
Jacob T. Heggestad, Rhett J. Britton, David S. Kinnamon, Simone A. Wall,
Daniel Y. Joh, Angus M. Hucknall, Lyra B. Olson, Jack G. Anderson, Anna Mazur,
Cameron R. Wolfe, Thomas H. Oguin III, Bruce A. Sullenger, Thomas W. Burke,
Bryan D. Kraft, Gregory D. Sempowski, Christopher W. Woods, Ashutosh Chilkoti.
Science Advances, Dec. 3, 2021. DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.abl7682

## Related News

June 25, 2021

### Test Distinguishes SARS-CoV-2 from Other Coronaviruses with 100% Accuracy

April 27, 2020

### Duke Engineers Adapt Rapid Testing Platform to See If It Can Catch
COVID-19

April 13, 2020

### Chilkoti Receives $13.7 Million in Funding to Prototype a Rapid, Portable
Diagnostic for Soldiers and Global Health

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

