

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Recreating Catalhoyuk's Historical Excavation in Virtual Reality

July 18, 2016

Students and researchers are taking tours of the excavation of Catalhoyuk,
Turkey—the largest and best-preserved Neolithic site ever discovered—without
ever stepping foot off campus.

Students and researchers are taking tours of the excavation of Catalhoyuk,
Turkey—the largest and best-preserved Neolithic site ever discovered—without
ever stepping foot off campus.

For the past six years, Maurizio Forte, professor of art, art history and
visual studies at Duke, has been the director of the 3D-Digging project at the
site. Along with Regis Kopper, assistant research professor of mechanical
engineering and materials science at Duke, the digital project has been taking
advantage of the rare opportunity provided by Duke’s DiVE facility.

The Duke immersive Virtual Environment (DiVE) is a six-sided, high definition,
immersive virtual reality experience. With the help of 22 million pixels and
some 3D goggles, users literally feel like they’re stepping into a different
world.

Each year, Forte creates a digital blueprint of the archaeological treasure.
Using existing laser scanning technology and photogrammetry—the superposition
of many photographs to create a 3D point cloud—Forte provides data to Kopper
who can create a model, using software built in-house, that can be explored in
virtual reality at the DiVE.

The researchers have data stretching back several years, which presents a
unique opportunity. Catalhoyuk was a large proto-city that flourished for
nearly 2,000 years before being deserted around 5700 BC. During those 2,000
years, many buildings were destroyed and built over once again, creating layer
upon layer of artifacts.

As archaeologists excavate the site, they necessarily destroy each of these
layers in succession. This can make it difficult to remember what previous
layers revealed, and how they might all fit together in the deciphering the
story the lives of these ancient peoples left behind. Preserving the progress
of the excavation gives researchers the unique opportunity to revisit the site
as it was years earlier, putting the entire decades-long project in
perspective to reveal new insights.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

