

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Remote Doctoral Defenses Bring Surprising Benefits

March 26, 2020

Duke Engineering PhD candidates experience the bright side of having to shift
to online dissertation defenses

When Narayanan Rengaswamy faced his committee to defend his PhD dissertation,
"Classical Coding Approaches to Quantum Applications," it would be at the
front of a room full of his friends and peers, in the university where he had
spent the last four years of his life. Assuming the defense was successful, he
would enjoy the handshakes and well wishes of the faculty, staff and students
who had cheered him along his academic journey. Laughter—and perhaps a
cake—might later be shared among friends.

That’s what he had dreamed of, anyway, until a few short weeks ago.

When Duke Graduate School emailed PhD candidates outlining the university’s
new policy on public PhD defenses in response to the coronavirus pandemic—only
the candidate and their committee were allowed to be physically
present—Narayanan Rengaswamy’s heart dropped. As ever more stringent
precautions were enacted, the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering finally asked that all students conducting defenses after March
16th, present remotely, to remote committees.

Rengaswamy did not rage, nor cry, nor gnash his teeth at the new guidelines or
the need to hastily master and implement Zoom, the now ubiquitous platform for
virtual meetings.

“I chose to focus on the bright side of the online format,” he said. “I
invited many friends from different parts of the world to join virtually for
my live defense. Moreover, I recognized that this format also allowed me to
record my defense talk, and share it publicly.” Rengaswamy added that the new,
closer proximity of his presentation slides to his committee members probably
made it easier to focus on the content.

> “I invited many friends from different parts of the world to join virtually
> for my live defense. Moreover, I recognized that this format also allowed me
> to record my defense talk, and share it publicly.”
>
> Narayanan Rengaswamy, ECE Phd '20

Indeed, the positive experiences of many PhD candidates who have defended over
the past two weeks have many wondering: is this perhaps the better format?

Rengaswamy was the first PhD candidate in Duke Engineering to defend online,
and his approach to integrating the necessary technology was straightforward.
With the exception of practicing with the new software and devoting a bit more
thought to how to introduce his research to make it more accessible to a wider
audience, he prepared no differently than he otherwise would have. The same
went for Guoyin Wang, who on March 24 defended “Applications of Deep
Representation Learning to Natural Language Processing and Satellite Imagery,"
supervised by David Carlson, and became the first candidate in Duke Civil and
Environmental Engineering to successfully defend remotely.

Some candidates, however, crafted more elaborate presentation setups. Michael
Lee, who had been working in the lab of Duke Mechanical Engineering &
Materials Science Professor Earl Dowell to reduce the cost of fluid dynamics
simulations, simultaneously used Zoom to communicate with his committee and
Twitch to broadcast his defense publicly. A third component, Slido, let users
anonymously submit questions that could be upvoted by others to indicate high
interest in the topic.

“One monitor was dedicated to the presentation, but on a second monitor I had
four windows open,” said Lee. “There was the Twitch stream app to see that the
chat was working, there was a Q&A open in another, Zoom participants were in a
third window, and my performance monitor was up to make sure I wasn’t maxing
out my CPU or WiFi capacity. To be honest, it was a lot to keep track of.”
Once he got through the first few disorienting minutes, though, Lee settled in
and gave what his viewers—more than one hundred of them—saw as a masterful
presentation.

Luis Navarro, another MEMS PhD studying materials science with Stefan
Zauscher, was also able to draw a larger crowd by using remote learning
technologies. “It was super easy to allow friends and family to see my talk,”
he said. “My parents were planning on flying over for an in-person defense.
However, because it was remote, a lot of my friends, some living as far away
as Japan and China, were able to participate live. It was great to share with
people who would otherwise have totally missed the event.”

> "Because it was remote, a lot of my friends, some living as far away as
> Japan and China, were able to participate live. It was great to share with
> people who would otherwise have totally missed the event.”
>
> Luis Navarro, MEMS PhD '20

The feeling of connectedness played a big part in what Rengaswamy called one
of the most memorable days of his life. “My kind committee members (advisor
Henry Pfister, co-advisor Robert Calderbank, Kenneth Brown, Iman Marvian and
Jianfeng Lu) actively participated in my defense, asked interesting questions
driven purely by curiosity and expressed their heartfelt best wishes after the
defense. To top it off, my parents were overjoyed that their only child had
earned the title ‘doctor’ and poured out their emotions and blessings over a
video call.” Similarly, it was particularly meaningful to Lee that his
grandparents in upstate New York were watching his presentation.

“While pursuing a PhD, students develop their skills in perseverance, grit and
dealing with adversity,” says Jennifer West, the associate dean of PhD
education. “While a remote defense is not what students had envisioned, I am
very proud of how they are handling this situation.”

As candidates continue to present and defend over the coming weeks, successful
candidates and their committee chairs have these tips to offer, so that new
PhDs can stop worrying about their tech, and go back to dreaming of their
post-pass celebrations—like Daniela Cruz, a candidate in Duke Electrical and
Computer Engineering professor Maiken Mikkelsen’s lab, who will defend her
research into plasmonics-enhanced immunoassays next week.

“Since most places will be closed, I plan to go outdoors and enjoy nature,”
said Cruz. “I also plan to open a bottle of champagne and virtually celebrate
with my family in California and Ecuador.”

Preparing for an online defense? Take these tips from new PhDs and their
advisors:

  * Build in several additional hours of practice time to familiarize yourself
    with the technical setup, and practice and troubleshoot.

  * Find a clean place with fixed lighting to hold your defense and test your
    camera/microphone/presentation setup with a second party.

  * Determine who will be responsible for laying out the ground rules i.e.,
    who is allowed to ask questions, and when? Will committee members keep
    their video cameras on or off? Explain how to mute and unmute microphones.

  * Consider whether you’d prefer to remain off-camera while presenting, if
    you have multiple screens as platforms to juggle. Be sure to discuss your
    preferences with your committee ahead of time.

  * Recording your talk for posterity is easy if you’re using Zoom, so take
    advantage of that! Twitch can also record as it streams.

  * Use the waiting room feature on Zoom to screen visitors, but also remember
    that an entire group may be admitted from the waiting room to the meeting
    only at the beginning of the meeting; after the meeting has begun,
    attendees must be moved back into the waiting room one by one.

  * Make someone on your committee the co-host, so they can help manage
    attendees, questions and tech issues during your defense.

  * Have a backup plan. (“It’s a good idea to re-share the document and a
    complete slide deck with the committee, so that in the worst-case scenario
    the host or co-host can advance slides while the candidate is available
    via a phone line,” advised Zauscher.)

  * With your screen in front of you, your presentation notes can be worked
    into your talk more fluidly. (“Don’t use it as a crutch,” Navarro
    cautioned, “but it helped me a few times when I got jammed.”)

  * Hosts or co-hosts can also use Zoom’s waiting feature to sequester
    candidates while the committee deliberates.

  * Don’t forget to breathe!

## Related News

March 24, 2020

### Engineering Classes Move Online

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

