

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Distinguishing Resistance from Resilience to Prolong Antibiotic Potency

December 5, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

Defining pathogen responses to first-line antibiotics could prolong their
usefulness

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have shown experimentally that there
is more than one flavor of antibiotic resistance and that it could—and
should—be taken advantage of to keep first-line antibiotics in our medical
arsenal.

In a study appearing online Dec. 7 in the journal Science Advances, the
researchers show why doctors should be paying more attention to whether a
pathogen is resistant or merely resilient against common beta-lactam
antibiotics, such as penicillin and its derivatives.

Resistant strains of bacteria can soldier through a dose of beta-lactam
antibiotics with little disturbance to their population levels. Resilient
strains, however, suffer a population crash before their community can secrete
enough beta-lactamase enzymes to degrade the antibiotic to a tolerable level.
If clinicians test an infection by dosing a culture and checking only the end
results, they miss the difference between resistant and resilient responses.

“Clinicians have not historically distinguished between these two scenarios,”
said Lingchong You, the Paul Ruffin Scarborough Associate Professor of
Engineering at Duke. “But as beta-lactam-tolerant pathogens become more
common, I believe this distinction could become extremely important.”

While an individual bacterium can be resistant to antibiotics, resilience only
arises within a community. This happens when bacterial cells produce enough
beta-lactamases to degrade the antibiotics, but not enough to save themselves
from the initial onslaught. As some cells die and release more and more of the
enzyme, however, the population as a whole eventually rids their environment
of the antibiotic.

In the paper, You and Hannah Meredith, now a postdoctoral researcher at the
London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, track the populations of
several beta-lactam-tolerant strains of bacteria over time when exposed to
beta-lactam antibiotics. They then use the responses to quantify the bacteria
population’s levels of resistance and/or resilience, creating a method to put
values to resistance or resilience for the first time.

In practice, the study offers a framework for researchers to begin designing
tests that can swiftly measure an infection for these two separate responses.
In You’s opinion, it’s a procedure that will have to become more common in the
future.

With a measure of a strain’s resilience in hand, doctors could prescribe a
regimen of antibiotics perfectly timed to hit an infection repeatedly during
the colony’s weakest points. This approach could allow doctors to continue
using first-line antibiotics on pathogens that otherwise would be
characterized as resistant and treated with more powerful antibiotics, a
practice that will degrade the medicine’s usefulness over time.

“We’re still in a stage where doctors don’t do a detailed diagnosis of what
specific infection a patient is suffering from, they just prescribe these
antibiotics because they’ll probably work after two weeks. And if they don’t,
they’ll just try a different one,” said You. “But I think as these beta-
lactam-resistant strains continue to spread around the world and become more
common, our diagnoses will have to catch up so we can provide more tailored
dosing protocols.”

The study was a result of a collaboration between the You lab and infectious
disease specialist Deverick Anderson at the Duke School of Medicine, as well
as Gregory Batt and his graduate student Virgile Adreani at Inria and
Institute Pasteur in Paris, France. Other researchers include a current You
lab graduate student, Helena Ma, and two former graduate students, Allison
Lopatkin and Anna Lee.

This research was supported by the National Institutes of Health (R01GM098642,
R01GM110494, R24DK110492), the Army Research Office (W911NF-14-1-0490), the
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Agence Nationale de la Recherche
(ANR-16-CE33-0018, ANR-16-CE12-0025), and the National Science Foundation
Graduate Research Fellowship Program.

CITATION: “Applying Ecological Resistance and Resilience to Dissect Bacterial
Antibiotic Responses,” Hannah Meredith, Virgile Adreani, Allison Lopatkin,
Anna Lee, Deverick Anderson, Gregory Batt, and Lingchong You. Science
Advances, Dec. 7, 2018. DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.aau1873

# # #

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

