

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# REU at 25: A Positive Impact on Students—and Duke Engineering

August 28, 2013 | By Michael Gowan

Through the REU program, hundreds of students have gotten hands-on experience
in a research lab—and those experiences didn’t end in the classroom.

For 25 years, Duke Engineering has welcomed undergraduates like Paige Maxon to
campus each summer as part of the Research Experiences for Undergraduates
(REU) Program.

Through the REU program, Maxon and hundreds of students before her got hands-
on experience in a research lab—and those experiences didn’t end in the
classroom.

“It opened a lot of doors,” said Maxon, a junior biomedical engineering major
at North Carolina State University. “Duke offered a lot of seminars about
different academic topics that opened my eyes to things I didn't think about
before.”

The REU program is available to rising sophomores, juniors and seniors who are
United States citizens or permanent residents. Each student is matched with a
project and mentored by faculty and graduate students.

“Our REU program helps students learn a wide set of skills that they need to
go on for higher engineering education,” said Martha Absher, Associate Dean of
Education and Outreach at Duke Engineering.

Beyond the lab, students also partake in seminars to help them learn skills
such as public speaking and how to apply to graduate school. They also get a
glimpse into the wide variety of options available to engineering graduate
students.

Absher has led Duke Engineering’s REU involvement for 25 years. In the late
1980s, Duke became the first National Science Foundation engineering research
center focused on biomedical research. Part of that designation required an
outreach component, and the REU program was started at Duke in 1989.

Since then, the program has grown and expanded far beyond its origins. Absher
created the REU for Increasing Diversity in 2002 to further promote diversity
in engineering and help more students from underrepresented populations gain a
foothold in the field.

The program is open to all eligible students, with an emphasis on diversity,
and it crosses all fields of engineering. The NSF has used Absher’s REU
program at Duke Engineering as a model for how REU programs should be run.

In 2012, the REU program Absher directs was expanded to include additional
programs in each department of Duke Engineering as well as in the Triangle
MRSEC (Materials Research and Science Engineering Center), and in 2013, the
Duke Wireless Intelligent Sensor Networks (WISeNet) Integrative Graduate
Education and Research Training (IGERT) program. The Center for the
Environmental Implications of NanoTechnology (CEINT) at Duke also offers an
REU program.

## A Commitment to Diversity

Absher takes great pride in the diversity that the REU programs promote.

“I want our programs to be inclusive of everybody. This includes
underrepresented minorities, defined by the National Science Foundation as
African American, Native American, Hispanic, Pacific Islander and Native
Alaskan. I've had students from all these groups represented in my program
over the years.”

Absher also includes other groups defined by NSF as underrepresented in
science and engineering, such as women and persons with disabilities.

“People with disabilities often aren’t included in diversity programs. I
wanted to make a special commitment to get them involved. Students with
disabilities have made up 25 percent of our NSF REU students.”

## Distinguished Alums

Since the program began in 1989, Duke Engineering has hosted 341
undergraduates as part of the REU program. Many of those students have gone on
to distinguished academic careers, and they credit the REU program with
putting them on the right track.

Tyrone Porter, an REU student in 1994 from Prairie View A&M University in
Texas, studied biomedical engineering with Patrick Wolf, associate professor
of Biomedical Engineering, that summer.

“Dr. Wolf exposed me to the diversity of BME research, and I was hooked,”
Porter said. Porter went on to get a PhD in bioengineering at the University
of Washington and is now an associate professor at Boston University. He
visited Duke in 2013 as a faculty guest lecturer to present a BME seminar on
ultrasound.

For Daniel Lundberg, a deaf student from Gallaudet University who participated
in the REU program in 2001 with Fan Yuan, professor of Biomedical Engineering,
the experience helped him with research skills. But, more than that, he
learned how to better use American Sign Language to work with interpreters and
communicate with hearing audiences, which was essential to his future
professional development.

“It helped me connect with the audience better. After that experience, I was a
changed man when it came to presentations—one of the best rather than one of
the worst,” he wrote in an email. Lundberg is now an associate professor of
chemistry at Gallaudet University, a higher education institution for deaf and
hard of hearing students.

## Continuing Benefits for Faculty and Duke Engineering

The REU program doesn’t just enhance the lives of the undergraduates who come
for the summer. Duke Engineering faculty like Patrick Wolf and Stefan
Zauscher, Sternberg Family Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science, have participated in the program for years and find it offers them
new experiences, like working with students with disabilities.

In addition, the REU program can help pave the way for NSF grants for faculty.
All NSF funding requires an education and outreach component, and the REU
program is a perfect opportunity to demonstrate a commitment to outreach and
diversity.

For Duke Engineering, the program helps expose students from all around the
country—and institutions big and small—to the possibilities that the graduate
program at Duke can offer.

Absher knows that the REU program is a great benefit for faculty and the
school. In the end, it’s about helping the next generation of engineering
professionals find their way.

“This can be a life-changing experience for students,” she said.

## More About REU at Duke

Distinguished Alums: See what several REU alums did during their summers at
Duke—and what they're up to now.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

