

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Roarke Horstmeyer: Visualizing New Biomedical Imaging Tools and Techniques

October 23, 2017

New faculty member Roarke Horstmeyer explores new imaging techniques to
uncover new information about biological systems

Roarke Horstmeyer will join the faculty of Duke University’s Department of
Biomedical Engineering beginning July 1, 2018. With research focused on
building new microscopes, cameras and computer algorithms to create better
biomedical images, Horstmeyer will continue to advance bio-imaging techniques
in his new role at Duke.

Today, researchers use a variety of imaging techniques to visualize and
analyze biological systems, but there are limits to how much these tools can
see. Many optical tools still capture lower resolution images, limited fields-
of-view and slow video frame rates, all of which impact image clarity.

“These limits are felt across many areas of study, from the pathologist who
cannot yet measure the fast dynamics of cells to neuroscientists who can only
use light to monitor neural activity along the top surface of the brain,” says
Horstmeyer. “In my research, I hope to address these shortcomings by creating
new imaging technology to help uncover new information about how biological
systems work.”

Currently, Horstmeyer is an Einstein International Postdoctoral Fellow with
the Judkewitz lab at Charitè Medical School in Berlin, where he is working
with neuroscientists to help improve their ability to optically measure the
behavior and neural activity of living organisms. He’s already drawing
recognition for his novel optical research.

In July, Horstmeyer was presented with the Young Researcher Award from the
Erlangen Graduate School in Advanced Optical Technologies. As the 10th
recipient of the award, he will serve as a guest professor at Friedrich
Alexander University and will also perform research at the Max Planck
Institute for the Science of Light in Erlangen, Germany.

When he assumes the guest role during the first months of 2018, Horstmeyer
plans to pursue two different collaborative projects. The first involves
building a new type of microscope that can capture gigapixel-sized images and
simultaneously classify what is present within the images. Ultimately,
Horstmeyer says, this device would be useful for quickly and efficiently
diagnosing diseases that can be identified within the bloodstream or in small
tissue sections, such as malaria, tuberculosis or even certain intestinal
parasites.

“We’re also trying to determine if this tool might be useful for researchers
who are trying to determine if certain tissue legions, such as breast legions,
show a risk of progressing cancer,” says Horstmeyer. “Many of these are
planned tests at this stage, but we’re quite hopeful they will work out.”

Through his second project, Horstmeyer will learn about how new techniques to
record high resolution movies at over one million frames-per-second can be
applied to neuroscience. Because these movies provide researchers with a high
resolution in both space and time, researchers will be better equipped to
measure fast events––a useful ability when studying neurons, each of which can
fire 200 times per second.

“Neurons send very fast electrical signals to one another, so many events of
interest in neuroscience happen very quickly inside––or at the interface––of
neurons, and a large amount of work in neuroscience is devoted to measuring
these fast events,” says Horstmeyer. “We believe that recording high-
resolution movies of neuronal dynamics can hopefully offer some new insights
into what is happening inside each neuronal cell body, as well as its
associated axon and dendrites, as they send and receive signals.”

For Horstmeyer, who received his PhD from Caltech and his master’s degree from
MIT, his new role at Duke will also mark a homecoming, as he received his
bachelor’s degree from the university at the start of his academic career.

“There seems to be the perfect mix of biological and optical research going on
at Duke, and I look forward to collaborating with several different research
groups in the area,” says Horstmeyer. “With the Duke hospital just a few steps
away, I am also very excited to try and translate some of the progress that we
make into practically useful optical devices for both patients and doctors.”

Beyond conducting his own research, Horstmeyer is also looking forward to
working with faculty members and students to pursue new projects.

“We are seeing big advances coming out in the fields of computer vision,
machine learning and sensor technology, and we frequently see new discoveries
in the fields of neuroscience, genetics and cell biology, in part because of
recent advances in optical technologies and data post-processing,” says
Horstmeyer. “I’m eager to teach the upcoming generation of engineers about
these new discoveries, and I’m eager to work with students who are interested
in optics and biology to help them make discoveries of their own.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

