

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Robert Calderbank Wins 2014 IEEE Communications Society Award for Advances
in Communication

April 18, 2014

Calderbank is professor of electrical and computer engineering and director of
the Information Initiative at Duke University

Robert Calderbank, professor of electrical and computer engineering and
director of the Information Initiative at Duke University, has been awarded
the 2014 Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE)
Communications Society Award for Advances in Communication. The honor is given
each year to a paper appearing in an IEEE Communications Society publication
within the past 15 years that opens new lines of work, envisions bold
approaches to communication, formulates new problems to solve and essentially
enlarges the field of communications engineering. The award is judged on
quality, originality, novelty and impact, and will be presented in December at
the 2014 Global Communications Conference in Austin, Texas.

The winning paper titled, “Space–Time Block Coding for Wireless
Communications: Performance Results,” was published by Calderbank and his
colleagues in 1999 while he was director of the Information Sciences Research
Center at AT&T Labs-Research in Florham Park, New Jersey. The research
documented the considerable improvement in performance that can be obtained
using space-time block codes to transmit data in several streams using several
antennae. The technique sends several data streams of information
simultaneously and combines the least corrupted segments of each in an optimal
way to provide signal redundancy. These space-time codes achieved significant
error rate improvements over single-antenna systems and have been incorporated
in a broad range of wireless standards wireless standards including UMTS, IEEE
802.11n, IEEE 802.16 and IEEE 802.20.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

