

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Robotic Motion Planning in Real-Time

June 20, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

Duke University engineers and computer scientists develop a new computer
processor specially designed for robotic motion planning

Once they've mastered the skills of toddlerhood, humans are pretty good at
what roboticists call "motion planning"—reaching around obstacles to precisely
pick up a soda in a crowded fridge, or slipping their hands around a screen to
connect an unseen cable.

But for robots with multi-jointed arms, motion planning is a hard problem that
requires time-consuming computation. Simply picking an object up in an
environment that has not been pre-engineered for the robot may require several
seconds of computation.

Duke University researchers have introduced a specially-designed computer
processor for motion planning that can plan up to 10,000 times faster than
existing approaches while consuming a small fraction of the power. The new
processor is fast enough to plan and operate in real time, and power-efficient
enough to be used in large-scale manufacturing environments with thousands of
robots.

"When you think about a car assembly line, the entire environment is carefully
controlled so that the robots can blindly repeat the same movements over and
over again," said George Konidaris, assistant professor of computer science
and electrical and computer engineering at Duke. "The car parts are in exactly
the same place every time, and the robots are contained within cages so that
humans don't wander past. But if your robot is using motion planning in real
time and a part is in a different place, or there's some unexpected clutter,
or a human walks by, it'll do the right thing."

Speedy motion planning saves the time and expense of engineering the
environment around the robot, said Konidaris, who will be presenting the new
work June 20 at a conference called Robotics: Science and Systems in Ann
Arbor, Mich.

Motion planning has been studied for 30 years, and recent advances have
brought the time required to find a plan for a sophisticated robot down to a
few seconds. With few exceptions, these existing approaches rely on general-
purpose CPUs or computationally faster but more power-hungry graphics
processors (GPUs).

The Duke team designed a new processor specifically for motion planning.

"While a general-purpose CPU is good at many tasks, it cannot compete with a
processor specially designed for just a single task," said Daniel Sorin,
professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science at Duke.

Konidaris and Sorin's team designed their new processor to perform collision
detection—the most time-consuming aspect of motion planning—such that the
processor performs thousands of collision checks in parallel.

"We streamlined our design and focused our hardware and power budgets on just
the specific tasks that matter for motion planning," Sorin said.

The technology works by breaking down the arm's operating space into thousands
of 3D volumes called voxels. The algorithm then determines whether or not an
object is present in one of the voxels contained within pre-programmed motion
paths. Thanks to the specially designed hardware, the technology can check
thousands of motion paths simultaneously, and then stitch together the
shortest motion path possible using the "safe" options remaining.

"The state of the art prior to our work used high-performance, commodity
graphics processors that consume 200 to 300 watts," said Konidaris. "And even
then, it was taking hundreds of milliseconds, or even as much as a second, to
find a plan. We're at less than a millisecond, and less than 10 watts. Even if
we weren't faster, the power savings alone will add up in factories with
thousands, or even millions, of robots."

Konidaris also notes that the technology opens up new ways to use motion
planning.

"Previously, planning was done once per movement, because it was so slow,"
said Konidaris, "but now it is fast enough that it could be used as a
component of a more complex planning algorithm, perhaps one that sequences
several simpler motions or plans ahead to reason about the movement of several
objects."

The new processor's speed and power efficiency could create many opportunities
for automation. Konidaris, Sorin and their students are counting on it, and
have incorporated a spinoff company, Realtime Robotics, to commercialize the
technology.

"Real-time motion planning could really be a game-changer for robotics," said
Konidaris.

This research was supported by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency
and the National Institutes of Health.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

