

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Robotics for a New Generation

April 19, 2017 | By Michaela Kane

Duke Robotics Student Symposium spotlights rapidly advancing robotics research
on campus

The Duke Robotics lab was bustling with activity. In one corner, a small box-
shaped robot was scooping up a ball and lobbing it high into the air for
students to catch, its gears turning with each catapulted launch. Other guests
watched as a black drone hummed through an obstacle course, diving up, around
and through hula hoops positioned around the stage. Graduate students observed
its progress in a glass enclosure, sporadically clicking keys on their
computers. In another section of the lab, a large red robot was stacking paper
cups while a lab member carefully directed its movements with a controller.

The robotics lab typically offers a dynamic work environment, but this time
the additional activity was due to the second annual Duke Robotics Student
Symposium, where over 100 Triangle-area high school students, undergraduates
and graduate students came together to learn more about the variety of
robotics-based projects at Duke.

The event, held on April 14 to coincide with National Robotics Week, featured
presentations from Duke faculty members and graduate students, robotics
demonstrations, and special guests from industry and the North Carolina
Department of Transportation, all to showcase the expanding opportunities in
the fast-moving field.

“We get to show off what we’re doing here, and we all think it’s really
exciting,” said Miles Aubert, a PhD student in the Intelligent Motion Lab. “To
able to share that excitement with people of college and high school age, and
then have those students tell us about their own work with robots is really
great to see.”

Some of Duke’s leading roboticists shared how they were working to fulfill
this goal through a variety of applications, with research that ranges from
the roadways to operating rooms. Kris Hauser, director of the Intelligent
Motion Laboratory, showed the audience videos of his lab’s ladder-climbing
robot and their tele-nurse robot, called TRINA, that will eventually be used
to treat patients with infectious diseases. Dr. Patrick Codd, a neurosurgeon
and director of the Brain Tool Laboratory, discussed how his lab was using
surgical robotics to reach deep-seated tumors during surgery. Mary “Missy”
Cummings also took the stage to speak about her own work as director of the
Humans and Autonomy Lab, where lab members are studying automation in drones
and driverless cars.

In addition to the presentations about physical robots, researchers also
discussed the theoretical concepts behind their work. Michael Zavlanos, an
assistant professor in mechanical engineering and materials science, spoke
about how teams of robots can form networks and coordinate their motion and
actions to accomplish complex tasks. “One of the problems we’re interested in
involves learning how to use realistic sensor models, like cameras, for more
precise motion planning and estimation,” said Zavlanos. “As coordination
between robots in a team critically relies on their ability to exchange
information with each other, we are also particularly interested in methods
that allow the robots to communicate effectively in the presence of
uncertainty that is ubiquitous in the wireless channel.”

Incoming faculty member Leila Bridgeman of MEMS also spoke about the problems
she must solve when she works with robotic systems that can adapt to changing
environments and variables. “As a control engineer, it’s my job to get robotic
systems to do what we want them to do,” says said. “For example, if I’m
designing a firefighting drone, my robotic system must work perfectly when
it’s flying out with a huge payload of water and it has to work just as well
when it returns without any water, so my controller needs to account for that
variation.”

Although the event primarily featured talks from faculty and graduate student
researchers, the high school students who attended the event also found ways
to participate. The Cary Academy FIRST Robotics team took the stage to discuss
the robot they created for robotics competitions, and many other high school
teams mingled with the graduate students and faculty during demonstrations.

“We saw a lot of high school students not only attend, but be really engaged
with the speakers and ask some of the best questions,” says Cummings. “The
entire event was a great experience, and I think it indicates that the field
of robotics is headed in a good direction.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

