

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Rubinstein Wins 2019 Soft Matter and Biophysical Chemistry Award

May 7, 2019

Rubinstein’s research led to a paradigm shift in the understanding of the
inner workings of the surface of the lungs

Michael Rubinstein, professor of mechanical engineering and materials science,
biomedical engineering, chemistry, and physics at Duke University, has been
selected to receive the 2019 Soft Matter and Biophysical Chemistry Award by
the Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC). He was cited for “physicochemical
insights into soft matter behaviour relevant to respiratory dysfunction.”

The award is presented annually by the RSC, the world’s leading chemistry
community founded more than 170 years ago, for outstanding and innovative
research in soft condensed matter and/or the application of physico-chemical
techniques to biological problems. The award consists of a £2000 and a medal
as well as an invitation to deliver lectures at up to four universities across
the United Kingdom and Ireland.

Rubinstein’s seminal work for which he is being recognized was published in
Science in 2012. After spending nearly a decade developing and experimentally
testing his theories, Rubinstein and his colleagues caused a paradigm shift in
our understanding of how the surface of our lungs function and interact with
mucous both in healthy and disease states.

The research showed that the cilia protruding from lung tissue—and the lung
tissue itself—is covered by brush-like structures crucial to regulating the
organ’s health. When healthy and hydrated, the structures act like a box
spring, supporting the layer of mucous lining the tissue while protecting the
entire system from the pathogens and irritants we breathe in on a daily basis.

When affected by disease, the brush-like structures become folded and
shriveled. This compression of the brush resulting in problems for our
breathing capabilities is caused by the increase of the mucus osmotic
pressure, which can be measured like blood pressure as a biomarker for
disease. This also provided new drug targets, as rehydrating the brushes and
lowering the osmotic pressure can alleviate many disease symptoms.

Outside of this seminal research and other discoveries in the field,
Rubinstein has also played an active role in the society’s administration. He
chaired the editorial board of the journal Soft Matter for four years and led
the transition from an in-house professional editorial board to one filled by
scientists from around the world, which is the standard for its peer society-
based journals.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

