

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Sapiro, Knio Named as Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. Professors of Engineering

April 30, 2013

Two Duke engineering faculty have been named as the inaugural recipients of
the Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. Professorships.

Guillermo Sapiro was formally named the Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. Professor of
Electrical and Computer Engineering and Omar Knio as the Edmund T. Pratt, Jr.
Professor of Mechanical Engineering at an investiture ceremony held on April
19, 2013. The ceremony also honored biomedical engineering professor Kam Leong
for being elected as a member of the National Academy of Engineering earlier
this year.

The new professorships, made possible through the gift of anonymous donors,
recognize the namesake of the Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School of Engineering at
Duke.

“According to a Chinese proverb, if you want happiness for a lifetime, you
should help someone else,” said Dean Tom Katsouleas at the ceremony. “I
certainly wish a lifetime of happiness for the donors of these two endowed
professorships, who have been steadfast in their commitment to help our
faculty and students by giving back to Duke.”

Katsouleas noted that the endowed professorship played a key role in the
successful recruitment last year of Knio, “our unanimous top choice” for his
position. A leader in the fields of uncertainty and optimization, Knio came to
Duke from Johns Hopkins University, where he was professor of mechanical
engineering. His research focuses on computational fluid mechanics, oceanic
and atmospheric flows, turbulent flow, physical acoustics, chemically-reactive
flow, energetic materials, microfluidic devices, dynamical systems, numerical
methods, and asymptotic and stochastic techniques. He is now director of risk
assessment and uncertainty and co-director of the Center for Materials
Genomics at Duke.

“I’m really thankful to Tom, Pratt and the generous donors of this
professorship for the opportunity to come to Duke,” Knio said. “I’m humbled
and honored to be part of this team.”

The second professorship also went to a new faculty member, Guillermo Sapiro,
who came to Duke in 2012 from the University of Minnesota. “Guillermo has had
a transformative impact across campus, working with faculty from departments
ranging from psychology and radiology to computer science and mathematics,”
said Katsouleas. “He’s not only engaging and collaborative, but a leader in
research and teaching.”

“Duke has been a great family to me,” said Sapiro, who holds secondary
appointments in the departments of biomedical engineering and computer
science. The recipient of major awards including the Presidential Early Career
Awards for Scientist and Engineers (PECASE) in 1998, the National Science
Foundation Career Award in 1999, and the National Security Science and
Engineering Faculty Fellowship in 2010, Sapiro is also the founding editor-in-
chief of the _SIAM Journal on Imaging Sciences_ , currently ranked second in
impact factor in all applied math.

His research focuses on developing image-processing algorithms that interpret
vast amounts of data from photos or video and translate the findings into
practical solutions, from medical breakthroughs to new surveillance methods to
improvements in consumer products such as Adobe’s After Effects software.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

