

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Screening the Human Genome’s ‘Dark Matter’

April 3, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

CRISPR-based system quickly screens non-coding genome for regulatory elements
of disease genes

Researchers have developed a method to swiftly screen the non-coding DNA of
the human genome for links to diseases that are driven by changes in gene
regulation. The technique could revolutionize modern medicine’s understanding
of the genetically inherited risks of developing heart disease, diabetes,
cancer, neurological disorders and others, and lead to new treatments.

The study appeared online in Nature Biotechnology on April 3, 2017.

“Identifying single mutations that cause rare, devastating diseases like
muscular dystrophy has become relatively straightforward,” said Charles
Gersbach, the Rooney Family Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering at
Duke University. “But more common diseases that run in families often involve
lots of genes as well as genetic reactions to environmental factors. It’s a
much more complicated story, and we’ve been wanting a way to better understand
it. Now we’ve found a way.”

The new technique relies on the gene-hacking system called CRISPR/Cas9.
Originally discovered as a natural antiviral defense mechanism in bacteria,
the system recognizes and homes in on the genetic code of previous intruders
and then chops up their DNA. In the past several years, researchers have
harnessed this biologic system to precisely cut and paste DNA sequences in
living organisms.

In the current study, researchers added molecular machinery that can control
gene activity by manipulating the web of biomolecules that determines which
genes each cell activates and to what degree.

With the new tool, Gersbach and his colleagues are exploring the 98 percent of
our genetic code often referred to as the “dark matter of the genome.”

“Only a small fraction of our genome encodes instructions to make proteins
that guide cellular activity,” said Tyler Klann, the biomedical engineering
graduate student who led the work in Gersbach’s lab. “But more than 90 percent
of the genetic variation in the human population that is associated with
common disease falls outside of those genes. We set out to develop a
technology to map this part of the genome and understand what it is doing.”

The answer, says Klann, lies with promoters and enhancers. Promoters sit
directly next to the genes they control. Enhancers, however, which modulate
promoters, can be just about anywhere due to the genome’s complex 3D geometry,
making it difficult to discern what they’re actually doing.

“If an enhancer is dialing a promoter up or down by 10 or 20 percent, that
could logically explain a small genetic contribution to cardiovascular
disease, for example,” said Gersbach. “With this CRISPR-based system, we can
more strongly turn these enhancers on and off to see exactly what effect
they’re having on the cell. By developing therapies that more dramatically
affect these targets in the right direction, we could have a significant
effect on the corresponding disease.”

That’s all well and good for exploring the regions of the genome that
researchers have already identified as being linked to diseases, but there are
potentially millions of sites in the genome with unknown functions. To dive
down the dark genome rabbit hole, Gersbach turned to colleagues Greg Crawford,
associate professor of pediatrics and medical genetics, and Tim Reddy,
assistant professor of bioinformatics and biostatistics. All three professors
work together in the Duke Center for Genomic and Computational Biology.

Crawford developed a way of determining which sections of DNA are open for
business. That is, which sections are not tightly packed away, providing
access for interactions with biomachinery such as RNA and proteins. These
sites, the researchers reason, are the most likely to be contributing to a
cell’s activity in some way. Reddy has been developing computational tools for
interpreting these large genomic data sets.

Over the past decade, Crawford has scanned hundreds of types of cells and
tissues affected by various diseases and drugs and come up with a list of more
than 2 million potentially important sites in the dark genome—clearly far too
many to investigate one at a time. In the new study, Crawford, Reddy and
Gersbach demonstrate a high-throughput screening method to investigate many of
these potentially important genetic sequences in short order. While these
initial studies screened hundreds of these sites across millions of base pairs
of the genome, the researchers are now working to scale this up 100- to
1000-fold.

“Small molecules can target proteins and RNA interference targets RNA, but we
needed something to go in and modulate the non-coding part of the genome,”
said Crawford. “Up until now, we didn’t have that.”

The method starts by delivering millions of CRISPR systems loaded into
viruses, each targeting a different genetic point of interest, to millions of
cells in a single dish. After ensuring each cell receives only one virus, the
team screens them for changes in their gene expression or cellular functions.

For example, someone researching diabetes could do this with pancreatic cells
and watch for changes in insulin production. Those cells that show interesting
alterations are then isolated and sequenced to determine which stretch of DNA
the CRISPR affected, revealing a new genetic piece of the diabetes puzzle.

The technique is already producing results, identifying previously known
genetic regulatory elements while also spotting a few new ones. The results
also showed it can be used to turn genes either on or off, which is superior
to other tools for studying biology which only turn genes off. Different cell
types also produced different—but partially overlapping—results, highlighting
the biological complexity in gene regulation and disease that can be
interrogated with this technology.

“Now that we have this tool, we can go in and annotate the functions of these
previously unknown but important stretches of our genome,” said Gersbach.
“With so many places to look, and the ability to do it quickly and robustly,
we’ll undoubtedly find new segments that are important for disease, which will
provide new avenues for developing therapeutics.”

This work was supported by the Thorek Memorial Foundation, the National
Institutes of Health (R01DA036865, U01HG007900, DP2OD008586, P30AR066527,
T32GM008555, R41GM119914) and the National Science Foundation (CBET-1151035).

“CRISPR–Cas9 epigenome editing enables high-throughput screening for
functional regulatory elements in the human genome.” Tyler S. Klann, Joshua B.
Black, Malathi Chellappan, Alexias Safi, Lingyun Song, Isaac B. Hilton,
Gregory E. Crawford, Timothy E. Reddy and Charles A. Gersbach. Nature
Biotechnology, April 3, 2017. DOI: 10.1038/nbt.3853

###

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

