

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Screening for Autism: There's an App for That

May 22, 2014 | By Ken Kingery

Duke researchers create automated video analysis tools to identify children on
the autism spectrum earlier

Most schools across the United States provide simple vision tests to their
students—not to prescribe glasses, but to identify potential problems and
recommend a trip to the optometrist. Researchers are now on the cusp of
providing the same kind of service for autism.

Researchers at Duke University have developed software that tracks and records
infants’ activity during videotaped autism screening tests. Their results show
that the program is as good at spotting behavioral markers of autism as
experts giving the test themselves, and better than non-expert medical
clinicians and students in training.

The results appear online in the journal Autism Research and Treatment.

“We’re not trying to replace the experts,” said Jordan Hashemi, a graduate
student in electrical and computer engineering at Duke. “We’re trying to
transfer the knowledge of the relatively few autism experts available into
classrooms and homes across the country. We want to give people tools they
don’t currently have, because research has shown that early intervention can
greatly impact the severity of the symptoms common in autism spectrum
disorders.”

The study focused on three behavioral tests that can help identify autism in
very young children.

In one test, an infant’s attention is drawn to a toy being shaken on the left
side and then redirected to a toy being shaken on the right side. Clinicians
count how long it takes for the child’s attention to shift in response to the
changing stimulus. The second test passes a toy across the infant’s field of
view and looks for any delay in the child tracking its motion. In the last
test, a clinician rolls a ball to a child and looks for eye contact
afterward—a sign of the child’s engagement with their play partner.

In all of the tests, the person administering them isn’t just controlling the
stimulus, he or she is also counting how long it takes for the child to
react—an imprecise science at best. The new program allows testers to forget
about taking measurements while also providing more accuracy, recording
reaction times down to tenths of a second.

“The great benefit of the video and software is for general practitioners who
do not have the trained eye to look for subtle early warning signs of autism,”
said Amy Esler, an assistant professor of pediatrics and autism researcher at
the University of Minnesota, who participated in some of the trials
highlighted in the paper.

“The software has the potential to automatically analyze a child's eye gaze,
walking patterns or motor behaviors for signs that are distinct from typical
development," Esler said. "These signs would signal to doctors that they need
to refer a family to a specialist for a more detailed evaluation.”

According to Hashemi and his adviser, Guillermo Sapiro, professor of
electrical and computer engineering and biomedical engineering at Duke,
because the program is non-invasive, it could be useful immediately in homes
and clinics. Neither, however, expects it to become widely used—not because
clinicians, teachers and parents aren’t willing, but because the researchers
are working on an even more practical solution.

Later this year, the Duke team (which includes students and faculty from
engineering and psychiatry) plans to test a new tablet application that could
do away with the need for a person to administer any tests at all. The program
would watch for physical and facial responses to visual cues played on the
screen, analyze the data and automatically report any potential red flags. Any
parent, teacher or clinician would simply need to download the app and sit
their child down in front of it for a few minutes.

The efforts are part of the Information Initiative at Duke, which connects
researchers from disparate fields to experts in computer programming to help
analyze large data sets.

“We’re currently working with autism experts at Duke Medicine to determine
what sorts of easy tests could be used on just a computer or tablet screen to
spot any potential concerns,” said Sapiro. “The goal is to mimic the same
sorts of social interactions that the tests with the toys and balls measure,
but without the toys and balls. The research has shown that the earlier autism
can be spotted, the more beneficial intervention can be. And we want to
provide everyone in the world with the ability to spot those signs as early as
possible.”

This research was supported by the National Science Foundation (1039741,
1028076), CAPES (BEX 1018/11-6), and FAPESP (2011/01434-9) Ph.D. scholarships
from Brazil and the U.S. Department of Defense. Also supporting the research
is the Office of Naval Research, the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency,
the Army Research Office, and the Air Force Office of Scientific Research.

###

“Computer vision tools for low-cost and non-invasive measurement of autism-
related behaviors in infants,” Hashemi, J.; Tepper, M.; Spina, T.V.; Esler,
A.; Morellas, V.; Papanikolopoulos, N.; Egger, H.; Dawson, G.; Sapiro, G.
Autism Research and Treatment, 2014.

Download a free copy of the study from Duke University Libraries.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

