

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Seeing Nano

January 4, 2017 | By Robin A. Smith

Gaze at worlds too small to see with the naked eye

_Originally posted_ on _the Duke Research blog_

The sewer gnat is a common nuisance around kitchen and bathroom drains that’s
no bigger than a pea. But magnified thousands of times, its compound eyes and
bushy antennae resemble a first place winner in a Movember mustache contest.

Sewer gnats’ larger cousins, horseflies are known for their painful bite. Zoom
in and it’s easy to see how they hold onto their furry livestock prey: the
tiny hooked hairs on their feet look like Velcro.

Students in professor Fred Nijhout’s entomology class photograph these and
other specimens at more than 300,000 times magnification at Duke’s Shared
Materials Instrumentation Facility (SMIF) administered through the Pratt
School of Engineering.

There the insects are dried, coated in gold and palladium, and then bombarded
with a beam of electrons from a scanning electron microscope, which can
resolve structures tens of thousands of times smaller than the width of a
human hair.

From a ladybug’s leg to a weevil’s suit of armor, the bristly, bumpy, pitted
surfaces of insects are surprisingly beautiful when viewed up close.

"The students have come to treat travels across the surface of an insect as
the exploration of a different planet," Nijhout said.

You, too, can gaze at alien worlds too small to see with the naked eye.
Students and instructors across campus can use the SMIF’s high-powered
microscopes and other state of the art research equipment at no charge with
support from the Class-Based Explorations Program.

Biologist Eric Spana’s experimental genetics class uses the microscopes to
study fruit flies that carry genetic mutations that alter the shape of their
wings.

Students in professor Hadley Cocks’ mechanical engineering 415L class take
lessons from objects that break. A scanning electron micrograph of a cracked
cymbal once used by the Duke pep band reveals grooves and ridges consistent
with the wear and tear from repeated banging.

These students are among more than 200 undergraduates in eight classes who
benefitted from the program last year, thanks to a grant from the Donald
Alstadt Foundation.

You don’t have to be a scientist, either. Historians and art conservators have
used scanning electron microscopes to study the surfaces of Bronze Age
pottery, the composition of ancient paints and even dust from Egyptian mummies
and the Shroud of Turin.

Instructors and undergraduates are invited to find out how they could use the
microscopes and other nanotech equipment in the SMIF in their teaching and
research. Queries should be directed to Dr. Mark Walters, Director of SMIF,
via email at mark.walters@duke.edu.

_Located on Duke’s West Campus in the Fitzpatrick Building, the SMIF is a
shared use facility available to Duke researchers and educators as well as
external users from other universities, government laboratories or industry
through a partnership called the Research Triangle Nanotechnology Network. For
more info visit http://smif.pratt.duke.edu/._

### Contact

Mark Walters, Ph.D.  
Shared Materials Instrumentation Facility  
mark.walters@duke.edu  
919 660 5486

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

