

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Segura Receives the Acta Silver Medal Award

October 8, 2020 | Michaela Kane

Tatiana Segura was recognized for her pioneering work to use biomaterials to
jump-start the body’s innate healing abilities

Tatiana Segura received the 2020 Acta Biomaterialia Silver Medal Award. This
award is intended to honor and recognize scientific contributions and
leadership from academic, industry and public sector leaders in the midst of
their careers. Segura, a professor of biomedical engineering at Duke
University, was recognized for her work to engineer hydrogel biomaterials that
support and promote cell growth, which helps the body repair damaged or
diseased tissue.

The Segura lab is pioneering new ways to help the body heal after injury by
focusing their work in two distinct areas: the skin and the brain. Segura’s
goal is to create biomaterials that can harness the body’s own immune response
to promote a process called endogenous repair and regeneration. This approach
could support growth of new neurons and blood vessels in damaged areas in the
brain, potentially limiting issues caused by strokes and other harmful events.
In the skin, this would promote new hair follicle and sebaceous gland growth,
which could help minimize scarring.

Segura earned a PhD in chemical engineering from Northwestern University in
2004, where she focused on designing and understanding non-viral gene delivery
from hydrogel scaffolds under the supervision of Lonnie Shea. She later
pursued post-doctoral training with Jeffrey Hubbell at the Swiss Federal
Institute of Technology, where she studied the use of materials for minimally
invasive tissue repair. Before joining Duke in 2018, Segura spent 11 years at
UCLA. At Duke, she holds joint appointments in biomedical engineering,
dermatology and neurology. She was also named a Duke MEDx Investigator in
recognition of her work spanning engineering and medicine.

Segura has received numerous awards and distinctions during her career,
including a CAREER Award from the National Science Foundation, an Outstanding
Young Investigator Award from the American Society of Gene and Cell Therapy
and a National Scientist Development Grant from the American Heart
Association. She was also named a Fellow of the American Institute for Medical
and Biological Engineers in 2017.

“I am deeply honored to even be nominated to receive this award among so many
other deserving scientists,” says Segura. “Receiving the award underscores
years of research and dedication to biomaterials science. Throughout my career
the Society for Biomaterials and Acta Biomaterialia have been instrumental in
the success of my laboratory and giving me so much inspiration for both my
research direction and life in general.”

“This award is simply confirmation of something that has long been obvious to
me––that Tatiana is a rising star in biomaterials,” says Ashutosh Chilkoti,
the chair of Duke BME. “This expertise is the reason why my colleagues and I
worked so hard to convince her to join us at Duke, and we’re incredibly
grateful for her contributions to the biomaterials community.”

The Acta Biomaterialia Silver Medal Award was established to recognize
significant research contributions that are both recent and timely. The award
consist of a silver medal, an inscribed certificate and an honorarium of
$5000.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

