

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Segura Receives Three NIH R01 Grants to Engineer Materials for Brain and
Skin Repair

March 6, 2020

With more than $6 million in funding, Tatiana Segura will explore how to use
biomaterials to heal damaged brain tissue after stroke and skin tissue after
injury

Tatiana Segura, a professor of biomedical engineering at Duke University, has
been awarded three National Institutes of Health (NIH) R01 grants totaling
more than $6 million in funding to develop biomaterials-based therapies to
help heal the body after injury.

The R01 grants––among the largest and most competitive offered by NIH, with
only one in five proposals awarded funding––will further the Segura lab’s work
to engineer new biomaterials that aim to harness the body’s own immune
response to promote a process called endogenous repair and regeneration. In
damaged brain tissue, this translates to the growth of new neurons and blood
vessels, while in skin, new hair follicle and sebaceous gland growth minimizes
scarring.

“Immediately following a stroke there is a window of time when the body is
trying to repair itself, just like with any wound,” says Segura, who is also a
MEDx Investigator with joint appointments in Duke’s Department of Neurology
and Dermatology. “We want to encourage the formation of new connections to
help the brain rewire itself to compensate for the damage and relearn some of
the functions it had before the stroke.”

When a blood clot blocks one of the arteries in the brain, it cuts off both
flow and oxygen, resulting in an ischemic stroke. If the artery is blocked for
more than a few minutes, the neurons and surrounding tissue in the brain begin
to die, which can affect a person’s speech, mobility, and strength, and even
lead to death. The current treatment for ischemic stroke involves trying to
resume blood flow as quickly as possible by either physically removing the
clot or using enzymes to dissolve it. However, there are currently no
treatment options that can help heal the tissue that was damaged, and a stroke
victim must usually undergo months of intensive physical therapy to regain
mobility and speech after such an event.

In their first project, Segura and her lab will inject a biomaterial into the
cavity of dead tissue left by the stroke in mice. The material will thicken
and mimic the surrounding brain tissue, providing a scaffold to support the
growth of new neurons and blood vessels into the cavity.

“If one could take advantage of the repair processes activated after stroke to
form functioning synapses or connections within the healthy tissue and between
the healthy tissue and the damaged tissue, then there is a possibility for
regaining some of the tissue that is lost,” says Segura.

In their second R01 grant, the team is building upon their previous work in an
attempt to develop a new biomaterial--a hydrogel laced with a pro-growth
protein called VEGF--to create new blood flow in the brain. Previously, they
explored how to deliver the correct amount of VEGF into the stroke cavity
without forming weak or leaky blood vessels. In the new project, the team is
working to better understand the chemical mechanisms by which VEGF promotes
healing in order to improve the next iteration of the gel.

While there is a lack of therapies that promote repair in the brain, there is
a plethora of products available to help heal injured skin. However, the field
is still searching for treatments that can target hard-to-treat wounds and
promote the growth of normal, regenerated tissue rather than compromised scar
tissue.

“The field of skin wound healing is very crowded, but there are many
unresolved wounds,” says Segura. “We want to encourage the formation of normal
tissue with hair follicles, sweat glands, and other skin architectures to
generate mechanically stable tissue.”

In their final project, Segura is teaming up with Joel Collier, an associate
professor of biomedical engineering, to investigate how they can use the
body’s own immune system to promote skin wound regeneration. Although the
natural immune response can fight off contaminants and heal wounds, it can
also lead to inflammation. The team aims to guide the immune system to produce
only signals that promote repair and not inflammation.

“We’re using biomaterials to generate an immune response from targeted parts
of the immune system, specifically B cells and T cells, which can improve
wound healing,” says Collier. “This project bridges Tatiana’s tissue repair
expertise and the expertise in my lab in controlling the immune response, and
we’re both looking forward to this collaboration.”

An R01 grant typically funds research for five years, and they are intended to
support a specified project in an area representative of the investigator’s
area of interest. Although many researchers earn at least one R01 grant during
their career, it’s unusual to be awarded three nearly simultaneously.

“I am very grateful to the National Institutes of Health, the reviewers that
took the time to review and understand the merit of our projects, and my lab
that make all of these ideas come to life,” says Segura. “I moved to Duke in
2018, and since then I’ve been submitting applications trying to get our
research funded, so I’m thrilled that it happened all at once.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

