

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Self-Assembling Nanofibers Prevent Damage from Inflammation

April 14, 2021 | Michaela Kane

Nanomaterials strategically activate the immune system to fight inflammation
as effectively as current standard therapeutics

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have developed a self-assembling
nanomaterial that can help limit damage caused by inflammatory diseases by
activating key cells in the immune system. In mouse models of psoriasis, the
nanofiber-based drug has been shown to mitigate damaging inflammation as
effectively as a gold-standard therapy.

One of the hallmarks of inflammatory diseases, like rheumatoid arthritis,
Crohn’s disease and psoriasis, is the overproduction of signaling proteins,
called cytokines, that cause inflammation. One of the most significant
inflammatory cytokines is a protein called TNF. Currently, the best treatment
for these diseases involves the use of manufactured antibodies, called
monoclonal antibodies, which are designed to target and destroy TNF and reduce
inflammation.

Although monoclonal antibodies have enabled better treatment of inflammatory
diseases, the therapy is not without its drawbacks, including a high cost and
the need for patients to regularly inject themselves. Most significantly, the
drugs also have uneven efficacy, as they may sometimes not work at all or
eventually stop working as the body learns to make antibodies that can destroy
the manufactured drug.

To circumvent these issues, researchers have been exploring how
immunotherapies can help teach the immune system how to generate its own
therapeutic antibodies that can specifically limit inflammation.

“We’re essentially looking for ways to use nanomaterials to induce the body’s
immune system to become an anti-inflammatory antibody factory,” said Joel
Collier, a professor of biomedical engineering at Duke University. “If these
therapies are successful, patients need fewer doses of the therapy, which
would ideally improve patient compliance and tolerance. It would be a whole
new way of treating inflammatory disease.”

In their new paper, which appeared online in the Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences on April 5, Collier and Kelly Hainline, a graduate student
in the Collier lab, describe how novel nanomaterials could assemble into long
nanofibers that include a specialized protein, called C3dg. These fibers then
were able to activate immune system B-cells to generate antibodies.

“C3dg is a protein that you’d normally find in your body,” said Hainline. “The
protein helps the innate immune system and the adaptive immune system
communicate, so it can activate specific white blood cells and antibodies to
clear out damaged cells and destroy antigens.”

Due to the protein’s ability to interface between different cells in the
immune system and activate the creation of antibodies without causing
inflammation, researchers have been exploring how C3dg could be used as a
vaccine adjuvant, which is a protein that can help boost the immune response
to a desired target or pathogen.

In their new nanomaterial, Hainline and Collier were able put this idea to the
test by weaving key fragments of the C3dg protein with components of TNF into
nanofibers. The C3dg protein would trigger the B-cells to create antibodies,
while the TNF components would provide a blueprint of what the antibodies need
to seek out and destroy.

“When Kelly assembled the C3dg protein and key portions of TNF into these
nanofibers, she saw that there was a strong B-cell response, which means there
was an increased production of antibodies that targeted TNF,” said Collier.
“In standard mouse models of inflammation, mice experience a temperature
change where their internal temperature will drop. But when Kelly delivered
her C3dg nanofibers, it was highly protective, and the mice didn’t experience
an inflammatory response.”

When the team tested their nanomaterial in the psoriasis mouse model, they
found that the nanofibers carrying C3dg were as effective as a monoclonal
antibody therapy. And because C3dg is normally found in the body, it wasn’t
flushed out of the system by anti-drug antibodies.

After examining the psoriasis model, the team made a surprising discovery --
C3dg wasn’t just stimulating antibody production in the B-cells, it was also
influencing the response of T-cells.

“We observed that nanofibers that only contained the C3dg components without
the TNF components still showed a therapeutic benefit to our models, which was
surprising. But I think the most significant discovery was seeing a beneficial
T-cell response that was activated by a protein you’d naturally find in your
body,” said Hainline. “That kind of response had been seen before with other
proteins, but we haven’t seen any reports of people using that response with
C3dg.”

For their next steps, the team hopes to further explore the mechanisms behind
this beneficial T-cell activation. They’ll also pursue additional experiments
to explore the response to similar nanomaterials in rheumatoid arthritis
models.

“We’re still learning about this T-cell response, and we’re trying to
understand how it’s involved,” said Collier. “Ultimately, we’d love to see if
C3dg can be used as a universal component in multiple different therapies
against inflammation, especially if we can swap out the TNF segments with a
different target. This work clearly indicates that nanomaterials involving
C3dg warrant further development as immunotherapies.”

This research was funded by the National Institutes of Health (NIBIB
5R01EB009701) and Duke University, an NIH Training Grant (T32GM008555), the
NSF Graduate Research Fellowship Program (DGE-1644868), and the North Carolina
Biotechnology Center (2017-IDG-1018)

CITATION: “Modular Complement Assemblies for Mitigating Inflammatory
Conditions,” Kelly Hainline, Lucas Shores, Nicole Votaw, Zachary Bernstein,
Sean Kelly, Chelsea Fries, Marisha Madhira, Caslin Gilroy, Ashutosh Chilkoti,
Joel Collier. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, April 5, 2021.
DOI 10.1073/pnas.2018627118

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

