

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Setting Ground Rules for Nanotechnology Research

August 18, 2015 | By Ken Kingery

Two new projects set the stage for nanotechnology research to move into Big
Data

In two new studies, researchers from across the country spearheaded by Duke
University faculty have begun to design the framework on which to build the
emerging field of nanoinformatics.

Nanoinformatics is, as the name implies, the combination of nanoscale research
and informatics. It attempts to determine which information is relevant to the
field and then develop effective ways to collect, validate, store, share,
analyze, model and apply that information -- with the ultimate goal of helping
scientists gain new insights into human health, the environment and more.

In the first paper, published on August 10, 2015, in the Beilstein Journal of
Nanotechnology, researchers begin the conversation of how to standardize the
way nanotechnology data are curated.

Because the field is young and yet extremely diverse, data are collected and
reported in different ways in different studies, making it difficult to
compare apples to apples. Silver nanoparticles in a Florida swamp could behave
entirely differently if studied in the Amazon River. And even if two studies
are both looking at their effects in humans, slight variations like body
temperature, blood pH levels or nanoparticles only a few nanometers larger can
give different results. For future studies to combine multiple datasets to
explore more complex questions, researchers must agree on what they need to
know when curating nanomaterial data.

“We chose curation as the focus of this first paper because there are so many
disparate efforts that are all over the road in terms of their missions, and
the only thing they all have in common is that somehow they have to enter data
into their resources,” said Christine Hendren, a research scientist at Duke
and executive director of the Center for the Environmental Implications of
NanoTechnology (CEINT). “So we chose that as the kernel of this effort to be
as broad as possible in defining a baseline for the nanoinformatics
community.”

The paper is the first in a series of six that will explore what people mean
-- their vocabulary, definitions, assumptions, research environments, etc. --
when they talk about gathering data on nanomaterials in digital form. And to
get everyone on the same page, the researchers are seeking input from all
stakeholders, including those conducting basic research, studying
environmental implications, harnessing nanomaterial properties for
applications, developing products and writing government regulations.

The daunting task is being undertaken by the Nanomaterial Data Curation
Initiative (NDCI), a project of the National Cancer Informatics Nanotechnology
Working Group (NCIP NanoWG) lead by a diverse team of nanomaterial data
stakeholders. If successful, not only will these disparate interests be able
to combine their data, the project will highlight what data are missing and
help drive the research priorities of the field.

In the second paper, published on July 16, 2015, in Science of The Total
Environment, Hendren and her colleagues at CEINT propose a new, standardized
way of studying the properties of nanomaterials.

“If we’re going to move the field forward, we have to be able to agree on what
measurements are going to be useful, which systems they should be measured in
and what data gets reported, so that we can make comparisons,” said Hendren.

The proposed strategy uses functional assays -- relatively simple tests
carried out in standardized, well-described environments -- to measure
nanomaterial behavior in actual systems.

For some time, the nanomaterial research community has been trying to use
measured nanomaterial properties to predict outcomes. For example, what size
and composition of a nanoparticle is most likely to cause cancer? The problem,
argues Mark Wiesner, director of CEINT, is that this question is far too
complex to answer.

“Environmental researchers use a parameter called biological oxygen demand to
predict how much oxygen a body of water needs to support its ecosystem,”
explains Wiesner. “What we’re basically trying to do with nanomaterials is the
equivalent of trying to predict the oxygen level in a lake by taking an
inventory of every living organism, mathematically map all of their living
mechanisms and interactions, add up all of the oxygen each would take, and use
that number as an estimate. But that’s obviously ridiculous and impossible. So
instead, you take a jar of water, shake it up, see how much oxygen is taken
and extrapolate that. Our functional assay paper is saying do that for
nanomaterials.”

The paper makes suggestions as to what nanomaterials’ “jar of water” should
be. It identifies what parameters should be noted when studying a specific
environmental system, like digestive fluids or wastewater, so that they can be
compared down the road.

It also suggests two meaningful processes for nanoparticles that should be
measured by functional assays: attachment efficiency (does it stick to
surfaces or not) and dissolution rate (does it release ions).

In describing how a nanoinformatics approach informs the implementation of a
functional assay testing strategy, Hendren said “We’re trying to anticipate
what we want to ask the data down the road. If we’re banking all of this
comparable data while doing our near-term research projects, we should
eventually be able to support more mechanistic investigations to make
predictions about how untested nanomaterials will behave in a given scenario.”

Both research papers were supported the National Science Foundation and the
Environmental Protection Agency (DBI-1266252 and EF-0830093), and the paper on
data curation was additionally supported by the National Institutes of Health
(ES017552-01A2).

###

“The Nanomaterial Data Curation Initiative: A collaborative approach to
assessing, evaluating, and advancing the state of the field.” Christine
Ogilvie Hendren, Christina M. Powers, Mark D. Hoover and Stacey L. Harper.
Beilstein J. Nanotechnol., 2015. DOI: doi:10.3762/bjnano.6.179

“A functional assay-based strategy for nanomaterial risk forecasting.”
Christine Ogilvie Hendrena, Gregory V. Lowrya, Jason M. Unrinea and Mark R.
Wiesner. “Science of The Total Environment, 2015. DOI:
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2015.06.100.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

