

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Seven Years at the Helm

August 11, 2015

Pratt’s at a pinnacle as Tom Katsouleas steps down as dean

It’s not every dean who knows how to surf. But the ability to catch the good
waves while avoiding wipeouts seems to have translated from the beach to the
engineering quad for Tom Katsouleas, who has led the Pratt School of
Engineering for the past seven years.

A plasma physicist, academic leader and former Los Angeles County ocean
lifeguard, Katsouleas came to Duke from the University of Southern California
in the summer of 2008, just before the Great Recession caused some very choppy
waters across all of academia. Despite starting his tenure as dean in the
midst of serious economic challenges and declining federal funding for
research, though, Katsouleas — who leaves Duke this month to become provost at
the University of Virginia — can look back on an incredible ride.

Over the past seven years, in fact, Duke has been one of the fastest-rising
engineering schools in the nation, in terms of both rankings and research
funding (see sidebar). Pratt has successfully competed for seven multimillion-
dollar externally funded research centers — a key marker of leading
engineering schools — in areas ranging from metamaterials to environmental
nanotechnology to materials science. It has launched new educational programs
like the Master of Engineering degree and distance-based Master of Engineering
Management, an Environmental Engineering major (the school’s first new major
in 40 years) and an Energy Engineering minor. It’s attracting record
applications for spots in its undergraduate program — up 46 percent since
2011. Its alumni are contributing to the school’s Annual Fund at a record
pace, and there’s even a $100 million new building on the horizon.

## Rising to the Grand Challenges

Duke Provost Sally Kornbluth has described Katsouleas’s deanship as
“transformative,” and Pratt’s profile is certainly higher and wider than ever
before. Still, one thing has not changed — and it’s what drew Katsouleas to
Duke in the first place.

“For decades, what has defined Duke Engineering is the fact that the school is
an integral part of a top-notch liberal-arts university,” he said. “That’s
been a perennial differentiator for us. It gives a Duke engineering education
a unique flavor, and Duke engineering students a broad perspective that
enables them to become leaders and innovators.”

It also uniquely positioned Duke to play a leading role in an emerging
movement in engineering, he noted. “When I came in as dean, the profession as
a whole was beginning to shift in focus from developing better devices to
solving societal issues,” Katsouleas said. “The National Academy of
Engineering’s 2007 list of 14 Grand Challenges for Engineering in the 21st
century drove home the idea that engineers could apply their expertise in a
larger context to tackle these really complex issues that affect us all, like
making solar energy economical and engineering better medicines. Those
problems require engineering solutions, but they won’t be solved by engineers
alone — they’ll take teams that understand policy, business, health care and
the environment. So a place like Pratt, where engineering students are
learning in a highly interdisciplinary context, had an opportunity to take
center stage in this national movement.”

Katsouleas made sure that opportunity didn’t go to waste. In 2008, Duke
Engineering and partners at University of Southern California’s Viterbi School
of Engineering and Olin College of Engineering hosted the first of a series of
Grand Challenge Summits, where the idea for a new educational model was born:
the Grand Challenge Scholars Program (GCSP). Endorsed by the National Academy
of Engineering, the program prepares undergraduate engineering students to
address Grand Challenges through an integrated research or design project,
interdisciplinary coursework, global and entrepreneurial experience, and
service-learning. More than 200 Scholars have graduated from GCSP to date,
including 70 from Duke — and that’s just the beginning. This spring,
Katsouleas and partners led a national initiative in which 122 U.S.
engineering schools signed a letter of commitment to President Obama pledging
to establish Grand Challenges education programs at their institutions.

“Tom’s vision, passion, and diplomacy have been absolutely critical to the
success of this hugely ambitious project,” said Richard K. Miller, president
of Olin College and a co-leader of the Grand Challenge initiatives. “One of
the consequences of these events and their growing international visibility is
that the Pratt School of Engineering at Duke University has been thrust into a
default position of national leadership. The visibility of the Pratt School
has grown enormously and today it is recognized as the home of real global
vision and impact in engineering education. I believe Tom and the Pratt School
have changed the face of undergraduate engineering education on an
international scale. Now that sets a very high bar for impact.”

## Engineering Connections: Big Data, BME and Beyond

The notion of connecting interdisciplinary teams to tackle big issues that
underlies the Grand Challenges movement has permeated Pratt far beyond the
GCSP. “Our relationship with other schools at Duke has never been stronger or
more important to our future,” says Katsouleas. “We’ve had more cross-school
partnerships and more joint hires with other schools over the past few years
than ever.”

He cites examples like the Information Initiative at Duke (iiD), forged in
2013 by a supergroup of faculty from Electrical & Computer Engineering,
Computer Science, Statistics, Mathematics and beyond to increase computational
research and expand opportunities for student engagement in the rapidly
growing field of “big data.” And the Global Women's Health Technologies
Center, a first-of-its-kind partnership between Duke Engineering and Duke
Global Health Institute. More recently formed are the new Duke Robotics Group
that draws together faculty from engineering, computer science and surgery,
and a nascent Materials Initiative aimed at developing new and improved
materials to create better therapeutics, improve energy storage, speed
computation and detect environmental hazards.

These new connections join a number of longstanding cross-campus partnerships,
including the 40-plus-year-old collaboration with the School of Medicine that
generated Duke Biomedical Engineering (BME). While Duke’s is one of the first
and highest-ranked BME departments, the past decade has seen a major shift in
the national landscape.

“Engineering schools across the country are in unprecedented growth mode
thanks to a very strong job market, high starting salaries and the appeal of
the Grand Challenges to Millennials, who see how they can change the world for
the better as engineers,” Katsouleas said. “And one of the fastest-growing
segments of the field is biomedical engineering.”

As much bigger engineering schools ramp up their BME programs, “We’re no
longer going to be one of the country’s largest producers of BME students, but
we can continue to be one of the best,” he said. “The key is our connection to
the School of Medicine.”

This fall, the schools are launching a new initiative to strengthen their
bond: MEDx (Medicine + Engineering at Duke). Building on existing ties —
including the $20 million Duke-Coulter Translational Research Partnership,
around $38 million in shared research awards annually, and joint degree
programs including MD-PhD and MD-MEng — MEDx will provide seed funding and
logistical support to catalyze new collaborations to improve human health. The
schools recently announced the appointment of Geoff Ginsburg, MD, PhD, as
inaugural director of MEDx.

“Our level of collaboration with the medical school is hard to match, and MEDx
will take it to an even higher level,” Katsouleas said.

“I think these cross-Duke collaborations like MEDx, iiD, the Materials
Initiative and others are the single biggest thing that will influence Pratt’s
trajectory in the years ahead.”

## Pratt Growth 2008-2015

  * 62% increase in graduate enrollment
  * 39 new tenure/tenure-track faculty appointed (more than a third of current
    Pratt faculty)
  * 3 new faculty Members of the National Academy of Engineering
  * 100% increase in external research expenditures
  * 40% of all new research awards to Duke in FY14, up from 26% in 2011
    (excluding medical school)
  * 7 major research centers established (CEINT, CMIP [Acoustic & Optical
    Metamaterials], MUSIQC, MRSEC, Materials Genomics, CAMMS-ES)
  * Fastest-rising of top engineering schools in U.S. News undergraduate
    rankings

## Gearing Up for the Next Wave

A close second will be space — greatly needed to support the growth of Pratt’s
student body, faculty and research programs, and of course all those cross-
disciplinary collaborations. A major project on the school’s horizon, the
nearly 145,000-gross-square-foot Engineering and Physics building, is being
planned with all three in mind. A joint effort with Trinity College of Arts &
Sciences, the facility will create a “collision space” where faculty and
students from engineering, physics and the sciences work together to develop
solutions to social challenges — much as the Fitzpatrick Center for
Interdisciplinary Medicine, Engineering & Applied Sciences (CIEMAS) was
designed as a bridge between engineering and medicine.

“The building is vital to realize our vision for hands-on teaching and
research,” said Katsouleas. “It wouldn’t be possible without the generous
support of committed donors, and we’re fortunate to have that.” During
Katsouleas’s tenure, gifts to Pratt have averaged $33 million a year —
including a major $30 million gift from Michael and Christine Pearson in 2014
and the $10 million Vinik Faculty Challenge fund established in 2012 — which
Katsouleas notes puts Pratt on par with other, larger top-tier engineering
schools, improving its ability to recruit and retain top students and faculty.

“If you look at the growth in our research portfolio and graduate programs
over the past few years, that’s directly attributable to the faculty,” he
said. “Pratt has excellent faculty who have been here for decades, and some
terrific new faculty, and I think we’ll continue to attract great talent in
the future. This is just such an easy place to recruit to, both because of the
amazing student body and the collaborative environment within Pratt and across
the university that supports everyone’s success. The key is going to be having
the infrastructure in terms of both space and funding to keep that momentum
going. And I think we’re well-positioned to do that.”

## Farewell to Dean K

Katsouleas is leaving Pratt in a good place, according to George Truskey,
senior associate dean for research, who will serve as interim dean of
engineering while the university conducts a national search for a new dean.
“Under Tom’s leadership, the quality and number of the faculty and graduate
students has increased, as have research awards. We’ve had some really
exciting faculty hires who strengthen our interdisciplinary research and
teaching,” Truskey said. “And Pratt has great momentum. We have very clear
strategic priorities that the faculty and leadership team set for the school,
and we’ll continue to work together to achieve them. With the new building and
new initiatives, there are a lot of exciting things on the horizon.”

As Katsouleas packs up his office — filled with books, photos, a research
poster titled “Surfing Plasma Waves” and the personalized skateboard he’s been
known to ride across Pratt’s landlocked quad — he admits to being sad to leave
the place he’s called home over the past seven years, even as he looks forward
to the new challenge of becoming a provost.

“This opportunity came about for me because of Pratt’s success over the past
few years, and I thank everyone in the community — faculty, staff, students,
alumni and donors — for everything they have done to support me and the
school,” he said. “Pratt’s success really is a reflection on all of them.”

## Duke Engineering Milestones, 2008-2015

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

