

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# ‘Shadow Waveguide’ Casts Complex Acoustic Patterns to Control Particles

August 18, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

New approach to 'acoustic tweezers' could help push past limitations for cell
and tissue engineering applications

Engineers at Duke University have devised a new approach to using sound waves
to manipulate tiny particles suspended in liquid in complex ways. Dubbed a
“shadow waveguide,” the technique uses only two sound sources to create a
tightly confined, spatially complex acoustic field inside a chamber without
requiring any interior structure. The technology offers a new suite of
features to the fast-developing platform of acoustic tweezers that has
applications in fields such as chemical reaction control, micro-robotics, drug
delivery, and cell and tissue engineering.

The research appears online August 18 in the journal Science Advances.

Acoustic tweezers are an emerging technology that uses sound waves to
manipulate small particles suspended in liquid. Because no physical object is
touching the particles, the technique is gentle, offers no biocompatibility
issues and requires no labels, making it an enticing choice for working with
delicate biomolecules.

In the biomedical realm, acoustic tweezers can trap, rotate and move particles
or organisms for inspection, sorting or other applications. They can keep
certain reagents and chemicals separated before allowing them to mix in
precise amounts to control reactions. The technology also provides an avenue
for patterning different materials before using any number of techniques to
fix them in place to create new types of materials.

Despite all of its potential, the technology does have its limitations. Most
current setups use multiple sound sources placed around a liquid-filled
chamber that creates a checkerboard pattern of areas that can trap and move
particles in lockstep with one another. This makes it difficult to manipulate
particles independently of one another or through complex patterns. The latter
can be achieved by including solid channel structures within the chamber, but
this can damage delicate particles and limit how quickly samples can be moved
through the system.

To overcome these limitations, Steve Cummer, the William H. Younger
Distinguished Professor of Engineering at Duke, turned to ideas inspired by
metamaterials. Metamaterials are synthetic materials composed of many
individual engineered features, which together produce properties not found in
nature.

“We wanted to inject acoustic wave energy into the chamber and use a structure
just outside of the chamber to control the shape of the sound waves inside,”
said Cummer. “The result is sort of like an optical fiber for sound that
shapes the sound propagation and intentionally leaks some of its energy into
the chamber—a sort of sound shadow—to control the particles inside with
virtual channels.”

In the new paper, Cummer and Junfei Li, a postdoctoral researcher working in
his lab, in collaboration with longtime acoustic tweezer innovator Tony Huang,
the William Bevan Distinguished Professor of Engineering at Duke, demonstrate
various capabilities of their shadow waveguide approach. Each shadow waveguide
is created by 3D printing a mold with features specific to how particles
inside the chamber are to be controlled. A type of silicone called
polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) is poured into each half-tube mold with features
that create channels within the finished product.

> “We wanted to inject acoustic wave energy into the chamber and use a
> structure just outside of the chamber to control the shape of the sound
> waves inside. The result is sort of like an optical fiber for sound that
> shapes the sound propagation and intentionally leaks some of its energy into
> the chamber—a sort of sound shadow—to control the particles inside with
> virtual channels.”
>
> steve cummer

The PDMS has acoustic properties very similar to water, which allows sound
waves to easily travel from the shadow waveguide into the chamber. The pattern
of the air-filled channels within the PDMS dictates where and how the sound
waves enter the chamber, allowing the researchers to create a wide range of
complex acoustic fields to control particles.

Cummer and Li use this setup to trap and move individual microparticles along
multiple complex paths through the chamber. And by setting up two sound
sources—one at either end of the shadow waveguide—the researchers show they
can pump particles along a slowly bending arc with precisely controlled speed.

With this demonstration in hand, the researchers are now looking to add
complexity to their invention, either by making the waveguides dynamically
reconfigurable or by merging it with other existing approaches to acoustic
tweezers.

“Acoustic devices are very difficult to make reconfigurable, but we would love
to figure out a way to make that possible because it would be a dramatic
improvement in this technique’s usability,” said Li. “For now, we’re looking
for specific challenges that we could adapt these shadow waveguides to address
to move it from a proof-of-concept demonstration to a more sophisticated
application.”

“The path to application might be to merge this with multiple concepts in the
field,” added Cummer. “Adding multiple sound sources and structures to create
more complexity might be what nudges us over the edge in some applications.”

This research was funded by the Office of Naval Research (N00014-13-1-0631),
an Emerging Frontiers in Research and Innovation grant from the National
Science Foundation (1641084), a CMMI grant from the National Science
Foundation (1951106), and the National Institutes of Health (R01GM132603,
U18TR003778, UG3TR002978).

“Acoustic tweezer with complex boundary-free trapping and transport channel
controlled by shadow waveguides.” Junfei Li, Chen Shen, Tony Jun Huang and
Steven A. Cummer. Science Advances, 2021. DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.abi5502

## Related News

September 10, 2020

### Sound Waves Replace Human Hands in Petri Dish Experiments

March 07, 2019

### “Meta-Mirror” Reflects Sound Waves in Any Direction

July 26, 2018

### Soundwave-Surfing Droplets Leave No Traces Behind

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

