

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# A Showcase for BME Design

October 24, 2018

Student designs take center stage at the BME biannual event

If you want to see what it takes to be a biomedical engineering student at
Duke University, the BME Design Symposium is a great place to start. Held at
the end of every fall and spring semester, the event gives students a chance
to present their final design projects to fellow students and BME faculty.
With past projects including an interactive laundry assistant, the cost-
effective development of a useful microbe, and a sensitive diagnostic tool for
HIV, attendees are able to see the range of innovative student-led projects
being developed in Duke BME.

“The event grows every year, and it gives stu-dents a chance to let their work
shine,” says Kevin Caves, who leads numerous Duke BME design courses,
including the groundbreaking Devices for People with Disabilities. “It’s
always impressive to see what our students can accomplish over the course of a
semester.”

During the design symposium, faculty and students are encouraged to peruse the
projects and watch demonstrations, with select BME faculty acting as judges to
vote on the top designs. The most popular designs can earn metaphorical
startup funds using “Tosh Bucks”––fake bills decorated with the face of BME
chair Ashutosh Chilkoti––through the People’s Choice competition, and there’s
a more formal judging competition awarding prizes as well.

The BME Design Symposium features work from a multitude of design courses,
including Medical Device Design, Biomechanics and Vehicle Safety Engineering,
Biophotonics Instrumentation, Devices for People with Disabilities, Design for
the Developing World, Amps and Implant Devices, Clinical Design, and Metabolic
Networks and Design. By working with faculty with diverse research, students
have an opportunity to pursue projects tailored to their own interests.

“A huge component of Duke BME is an emphasis on creating practical solutions
to problems that doctors and researchers face, and it’s always fun to see the
final results of our hard work at the BME Design Symposium,” says Karen Xu, a
recent BME graduate. “Duke BME has given me a huge appreciation for what
engineering can do for medicine, and that’s something I’m going to bring with
me in my future career.”

“Our design courses give students practical experience they can benefit from
when they graduate and go into careers in industry or further into academia,”
says Elizabeth Bucholz, associate director of undergraduate studies for BME
and the event’s organizer. “In engineering it’s not surprising when a design
doesn’t work the first time, but our students have shown that they have the
skills to make these innovative designs come to life.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

