

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Sink or Swim: Duke's ASCE Chapter Combines Creativity and Engineering

April 7, 2017 | By Michaela Kane

Duke's undergraduate ASCE team wins two awards at annual engineering
competition.

When you’re building a canoe, it’s usually safe to assume that you aren’t
considering how to work concrete into the design. But for students in the Duke
chapter of the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE), concrete was a
requirement.

Luckily, there was a method to their madness.

One of the main events at the annual ASCE Carolinas Conference requires
students to build a canoe made of concrete and race it against other canoes
designed by engineering students from colleges across the Southeast. The
conference, which took place from March 31 to April 1 and was hosted by UNC
Charlotte, forces the undergraduate engineers to think of creative solutions
to traditional engineering challenges, ranging from the design of a steel
bridge to the creation of a water filtration system. Although the Duke team
was able to test their concrete canoe in water, strong winds prevented the
teams from racing their designs­­––but that didn’t stop them from taking home
two prizes.

Team members Karyn Saunders, Alex Simmons, Hannah Wilen and Virginia Pan won
third place in the environmental competition, during which students were
required to design and build a process that would remove particles and organic
materials from a water source.

Duke ASCE also earned third place in the Freshmore challenge, where freshman
and sophomore students were required to visit various locations around UNC
Charlotte’s campus and complete a series of mental and physical challenges to
retrieve parts of a flagpole. The team, which included Hannah Wilen, Virginia
Pan, David Onywoki and Courts Montgomery then raced to the finish line and
assembled the flagpole to raise the Duke colors.

The two-day event challenges the participants to ‘think outside the box’ with
their engineering solutions, while still providing the students with valuable
experience about how to work creatively under pressure. Now, the team can look
forward to the 2018 competition, when Duke will host the conference on its own
campus.

For more information about the Duke chapter of ASCE, advised by CEE Professor
of the Practice Joe Nadeau, visit: https://dukeasce.wordpress.com/.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

