

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Smartwatches Can Help Guide COVID-19 Testing

October 10, 2022 | Michaela Kane

Data from smartwatches can help identify people with likely COVID-19
infections, enabling physicians to catch more cases with fewer tests

Researchers at Duke University have developed a way to use data collected from
wearable devices like smartwatches to identify people with possible COVID-19
infections.

This knowledge will enable health care workers to conduct testing more
efficiently, as they’ll be able to identify more positive cases using fewer
tests and in less time. This improved efficiency can help address testing
supply shortages during outbreaks of new variants and diseases and in settings
where testing resources are scarce.

The study appears on September 1 in npj Digital Medicine.

During an outbreak, public health experts conduct surveillance testing to
study and control the spread of disease through a population. Surveillance
testing can help to catch infections before they would be spread further,
which limits the reach of disease outbreaks.

But, as the public saw during the COVID-19 pandemic, this process can be
hindered when there aren’t enough tests to go around.

“Surveillance testing is a great tool if you have enough tests, but if there
is a shortage, you need to be strategic about how you use them,” says Md
Mobashir Hasan Shandhi, a postdoctoral research fellow at Duke. “It was clear
that we didn’t have enough tests at the beginning of the pandemic, and that
shortage persists globally. And when the Delta variant appeared last July, the
daily demand for tests surged from 250 thousand to 1.5 million in two months,
and testing capacity didn’t meet the sudden demand.”

To address this issue, Jessilyn Dunn, an assistant professor of biomedical
engineering at Duke, and members of her lab, including Shandhi, Peter Cho and
Ali Roghanizad, developed an Intelligent Testing Allocation (ITA) method by
analyzing health data collected through their lab’s CovIdentify study.

Volunteers in the CovIdentify study filled out regular symptom surveys,
submitted diagnostic tests and synced their smartwatches up to the CovIdentify
app or submitted their data directly to the team. The program then analyzed
biometric data from the wearable devices, specifically the participant’s
activity levels, sleep levels and heart rate, and examined how that health
data matched with symptoms that could indicate a COVID-19 infection.

To ensure that they were working with a robust data set, the team expanded
their scope to include Stanford University’s MyPhD study, which similarly
required participants to share their smartwatch data to track COVID-19
symptoms and diagnosis.

After analyzing the data, Dunn and her collaborators observed that many
patients who reported a positive COVID test experienced a raised resting heart
rate (RHR) in the days leading up to their diagnosis. They also saw that many
participants took fewer steps for multiple days before testing positive.

“We developed a machine learning algorithm and trained it to use these
biomarkers to identify potential COVID-19 infections,” said Roghanizad, a
post-doctoral fellow in the Dunn lab. “Initially we thought incorporating both
the activity levels and heart rate data into our algorithm would make it more
accurate, but just identifying persistent changes to a person’s resting heart
rate was a much more accurate predictive indicator of infection because it
changes earlier in the course of the infection.”

Using their algorithm, the researchers developed their ITA method to identify
and test the most likely COVID-19 cases. Their approach resulted in a 6.5-fold
increase in the positivity rate as compared to the standard random allocation
testing method.

“Our ITA method significantly increased the positivity rate, which translates
to a lot more caught infections,” said Cho, a PhD student in the Dunn lab. “A
change in someone’s resting heart rate wasn’t always indicative of a COVID
infection, but we showed that it’s a very good guiding metric, especially when
you’re working with limited resources.”

The team will continue to analyze the data from the CovIdentify study to
develop additional digital biomarkers for COVID-19. Ultimately, they would
like to develop a way to use wearable data to identify and diagnose COVID-19
infections as soon as physiologically possible (e.g., within 24 hours of
pathogen exposure). They also hope to expand their model so it can be applied
to other respiratory illnesses, like the flu.

“We’ve seen how inefficient diagnostic testing can exacerbate disease
outbreaks and harm communities, with Monkeypox as an even more recent example
than COVID-19” said Dunn. “Our approach allows us to take a step forward in
improving surveillance testing to catch infections that would otherwise result
in disease spread, and it helps people get the right care and information at
the right time.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

