

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Making ‘Smart Headlights’ with Machine Learning

October 24, 2018

Duke engineers are helping to invent headlights that automatically recognize
surrounding environments, selectively illuminate important objects and display
information on the roadway

It’s a common scene for anybody driving at night on a dark road. Zipping
around corners and over hills, the car’s high beams are on to improve vision
while the driver’s hand remains poised to turn them off at a moment’s notice,
lest they blind oncoming traffic and cause an accident.

Xin Li believes there is a better solution, and he’s working with China’s
largest headlight manufacturer to make it a reality.

“Modern headlights don’t have just one or two light bulbs, they can have up to
a million,” said Li, professor of electrical and computer engineering at Duke
University and Duke Kunshan University. “I’m working with industry partners to
create a ‘smart headlight’ that can control each pixel individually and
automatically light up different areas in front of the car after recognizing
the surrounding environment.”

For example, the headlight could reduce the amount of light pointed at an
oncoming car while simultaneously increasing the illumination of an upcoming
road sign. Or it could detect nearby pedestrians and alert the driver by
highlighting their body while avoiding shining light directly into their eyes.

The challenge to making such a headlight isn’t necessarily creating the
different patterns of light—it’s teaching the car how to automatically
recognize the surrounding environment and make the patterns on its own. It’s a
problem that HASCO Vision Technology—the largest automotive lamp manufacturer
in China—is turning to Li to help them solve with machine learning.

Many car companies are using cameras and machine learning to help control
their own versions of self-driving cars, so Li is far from alone in this
regard. Machine learning algorithms, however, need vast amounts of data to
learn from, and many of the datasets and algorithms already created for this
purpose have focused on daytime driving.

“Our application doesn’t care about the daytime though,” said Li, who splits
his time between Duke’s campuses in North Carolina and Kunshan, China. “Using
this approach for smart headlights is actually more difficult because the
lighting conditions are much worse. It’s a unique challenge that has not been
well studied in the past.”

While his industry partners are working to collect more nighttime footage and
painstakingly annotate important objects like signs, pedestrians and other
cars, Li is optimizing the machine learning algorithm. Because decisions must
be made in real-time, the researchers must choose the right hardware and
design the algorithm to fit its architecture.

Helping Li with this task is DKU research scientist Xin Feng. Together, Li and
Feng already have a working demo that, while impressive, still needs to
improve before it hits the roads.

“Detection accuracy is very important—you can’t miss anything or anyone,” said
Li. “And while that’s a very important and challenging problem, it’s only one
metric. The other is real-time response. If the algorithm takes too long to
respond, then it isn’t useful. Technically, those are the two most challenging
issues.”

But they’re issues Li expects to resolve in the near future, along with adding
a few more bells and whistles. Another aspect of the project uses the
headlights to project important information such as weather and road
conditions, traffic signs, navigation directions, and even driving lanes onto
the roadway within the headlight beams themselves.

Other advances could include making use of alternative sensors that self-
driving cars may eventually possess such as radar and lidar. But for now, the
project is using only forward-facing cameras to keep costs down, as in the
next few years consumers are much more likely to see smart headlights on the
roads in large numbers than self-driving vehicles with added detection
capabilities.

“I think we can get a first-generation product on the market in the next two
years,” said Li. “Once we have those on the road, we can get even more
feedback and data to further improve accuracy and response time to make future
iterations even better.”

More about Duke Kunshan University

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

