

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Smith Named Chair of ECE

July 10, 2014

David Smith has been named chair of Duke’s Department of Electrical and
Computer Engineering, effective August 1, 2014.

David Smith has been named chair of Duke’s Department of Electrical and
Computer Engineering, effective August 1, 2014.

Smith, the James B. Duke Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
(ECE), is one of the most highly cited and highly respected scholars in
electrical and computer engineering worldwide. His leadership experience
includes serving as the director of Duke’s Center for Metamaterials and
Integrated Plasmonics (CMIP), a strategic advisor for Kymeta Corporation,
founding and continuing strategic director of the Metamaterials
Commercialization Center at Intellectual Ventures, and a former director of
graduate studies for ECE.

He succeeds Larry Carin, who became Duke’s vice provost for research on July
1. Lisa Huettel, who is acting chair until August 1, will continue as
associate chair under Smith. Smith will also continue to serve as director of
CMIP.

“I am grateful to David for his willingness to step up and take on the
leadership of the department, and excited about his ideas for building on the
momentum generated in recent years,” said Pratt School of Engineering Dean Tom
Katsouleas. “He is widely admired in ECE for his scholarship and thought
leadership. These and his caring approach have engendered strong support from
faculty and staff alike. In my conversations with him, it became clear that no
one cares more about the department and seeing every single person in it
thrive and reach their fullest potential.

“He is also a visionary thinker and clear communicator who will be a strong
leader within Pratt, bringing new ideas, experience and relationships on which
to build, particularly in the areas of tech transfer and entrepreneurship,
which are key elements of our school’s strategic plan.”

Smith joined Duke in 2004, and holds a professorship in physics as well as ECE
at the university. He is also visiting professor of physics at Imperial
College, London, an affiliate professor of electrical and computer engineering
and the University of Washington, and an adjunct professor in physics at the
University of California-San Diego, where he earned his PhD in physics in
1994.

He is widely known for his research in the theory, simulation and
characterization of unique electromagnetic structures, including photonic
crystals and metamaterials. Smith has been at the forefront in developing
numerical methods to design and characterize metamaterials, and conducted key
experiments that have illustrated their potential—including the first
demonstration of a metamaterial with negative refractive index in 2000, and
the first “invisibility cloak” in 2006, co-authored with ECE professor Steve
Cummer. He is co-inventor on more than fifty patent filings and fourteen
issued patents relating to plasmonics and metamaterials and has received
numerous honors for his work, including most recently the American Physical
Society’s McGroddy Prize for New Materials.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

