

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Software Helps Art Conservators Clear the Cradling

September 8, 2015 | By Emily Kowalski, North Carolina Museum of Art

North Carolina Museum of Art partners with Duke University to develop an art
conservation tool that helps analyze paintings using x-ray images

The North Carolina Museum of Art (NCMA) has collaborated with Duke University
and the Free University of Brussels’ Department of Electronics and Informatics
to develop an innovative art conservation tool. The software program, called
Platypus, is a Photoshop plug-in tool that uses mathematical algorithms to
allow art conservators to better analyze paintings using X-ray images.

**The Art Problem: Cradle Patterns in X-Ray Images**

X-ray radiography is a standard technique widely used by art conservators, art
historians, and curators to discover information about the manufacturing
process and the condition of a painting. However, cradling—wooden slats
attached to the back of many old paintings executed on wooden panels—creates
lattice patterns that appear as grids or a series of stripes on an X-ray image
(pictured left). These patterns can obscure the image and distract art
conservators from reading the image and analyzing paint layers.

“Cradle patterns in X-ray images has been an ages-old problem for conservators
studying collections of Old Master paintings, and until Platypus, required
many hours of tedious manipulation of the X-ray image in Photoshop or various
other techniques, some of which could be damaging to the painting,” says
William Brown, chief conservator at the NCMA. “We have been fortunate to work
with world leaders in the fields of time-frequency analysis, informatics, and
image processing to come up with a practical solution to a difficult problem.”

The cradle pattern problem appeared while Rujie Yin, research assistant in
Duke University’s Mathematics Department, was using X-ray images to research a
14th-century altarpiece by Francescuccio Ghissi for an upcoming exhibition at
the NCMA. Yin, attempting to study crack patterns in the altarpiece for an
image-processing component of the exhibition, was frustrated at the
distracting cradling and decided to use mathematical algorithms to solve the
problem.

**The Math Solution: Image Processing Algorithms—and Collaborations**

Museum conservators and Duke University mathematicians worked together to
develop the tool. Noelle Ocon, NCMA conservator of paintings, identified
objectives of the project based on art conservators’ challenges with X-ray
images. Yin and Duke University professors Ingrid Daubechies (Mathematics
Department and Electrical and Computer Engineering Department) and David
Dunson (Statistics Department) developed an algorithm that was successful in
removing the cradle pattern from the X-ray image. When comparing the algorithm
to the time-consuming technique of manually altering the image in Photoshop,
it was discovered that the algorithm was not only quicker and more effective,
but also much easier for art conservators to use.

Describing the algorithm, Daubechies explains, “The algorithm consists of a
three-stage procedure. First, the cradled regions are located automatically.
The second step consists of separating the X-ray image into a textural and
image component. In the last step, the algorithm learns to distinguish between
the texture caused by the wooden cradle and the texture belonging to the
original painted wooden panel.”

Next, Bruno Cornelis, postdoctoral fellow in Duke University’s Mathematics
Department; Gabor Fodor, research assistant in the Free University of
Brussels’ Department of Electronics and Informatics; and others worked on
coding and the user interface. The algorithms and coding were then converted
into a conservator-friendly Photoshop plug-in tool that works effectively and
quickly to remove the cradle pattern (pictured right).

The project was funded by the Samuel H. Kress Foundation. Says Brown, “We are
extremely grateful to the Samuel H. Kress Foundation for awarding the generous
grant that allowed us to study and solve this problem. Because of their
support, we have developed a tool that will make a tremendous impact on art
conservation for years to come.”

The Platypus program was introduced at a workshop in August 2015 attended by
national and international art conservators. After receiving feedback from the
conservators, the NCMA and Duke University worked to finalize the software and
coding, which is now available free online.

**Art + Science Initiative**

The collaboration between the NCMA and Duke University is part of the NCMA’s
Art + Science Initiative, which enlists local universities to research issues
concerning both art and science, bringing technological advances to art
conservation, and demonstrating the importance of interdisciplinary studies.
The Museum’s Conservation Center has partnered with Duke University on other
conservation projects, including applying laser imaging technology to research
materials used in paintings (designed by Warren S. Warren, director of Duke
University’s Center for Molecular and Biomolecular Imaging).

The project is also part of the Information Initiative at Duke (iiD), an
interdisciplinary program designed to increase “big data” (information
characterized by tremendous volume, variety, and rapid change) computational
research and expand opportunities for student engagement in this rapidly
growing field.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

