

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Soundwave-Surfing Droplets Leave No Traces Behind

July 26, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

New digital microfluidics platform uses soundwaves and oil to avoid
contamination for reusable lab-on-a-chip devices

Engineers at Duke University have developed a way to manipulate, split and mix
droplets of biological fluids by having them surf on acoustic waves in oil.
The technology could form the basis of a small-scale, programmable, rewritable
biomedical chip that is completely reusable for disparate purposes from on-
site diagnostics to laboratory-based research.

The study appears on July 26 in the journal Nature Communications.

Automated fluid handling has driven the development of many scientific fields.
Robotic pipetting systems have, for example, revolutionized the preparation of
sequencing libraries, clinical diagnostics and large-scale compound screening.
While ubiquitous in the modern biomedical research and pharmaceutical
industries, these systems are bulky, expensive and do not handle small volumes
of liquids well.

Lab-on-a-chip systems have been able to fill this space to some extent, but
most are hindered by one major drawback&mdashsurface absorption. Because these
devices rely on solid surfaces, the samples being transported inevitably leave
traces of themselves that can lead to contamination.

“There are a lot of protein-laden fluids and certain reagents that tend to
stick to the chips that are handling them,” said Tony Jun Huang, the William
Bevan Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science at Duke. “This
is especially true of biological samples like undiluted blood, sputum and
fecal samples. Our technology is well-suited for processing these difficult
samples.”

The new lab-on-a-chip platform uses a thin layer of inert, immiscible oil to
stop droplets from leaving behind any trace of themselves. Just below the oil,
a series of piezoelectric transducers vibrate when electricity is passed
through them. Just like the surface of a subwoofer, these vibrations create
sound waves in the thin layer of oil above them.

By carefully controlling the sound waves, the researchers create vertical
vortexes that form small dimples in the oil to either side of the active
transducer. These dimples can hold droplets with volumes ranging from one
nanoliter to 100 microliters and pass them along the surface of the oil as the
sound waves are modulated and different transducers are activated.

The droplets are effectively surfing on tiny soundwaves.

“Our contactless liquid-handling mechanism inherently eliminates cross-
contamination associated with surface adsorption and the need for surface
modification,” Huang said. “It enables reusable paths for the droplets to be
dynamically processed on arbitrary routes without cross-talk between each
other, exponentially increasing the allowable number of combinations of
reagent inputs on the same device.”

Huang next wants to take this proof-of-concept demonstration and create a
fully automated lab-on-a-chip platform that can handle complex operations with
dozens of droplets simultaneously. He’s planning to collaborate with peers at
Duke for various applications in biology and medicine.

This research was supported by the National Institutes of Health (R01
GM112048, R33 EB019785) and the National Science Foundation CBET-1438126,
IDBR-1455658.

“Digital Acoustofluidics: Programmable, Contactless Liquid Handling and
Routing via Acoustic Streaming.” Steven Zhang, James Lata, Chuyi Chen, John
Mai, Feng Guo, Zhenhua Tian, Liqiang Ren, Zhangming Mao, Po-Hsun Huang, Peng
Li, Shujie Yang, and Tony Jun Huang. Nature Communications, 2018. DOI:
10.1038/s41467-018-05297-z

# # #

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

