

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# The Surprising Structural Reason Your Kitchen Sponge is Disgusting

February 17, 2022 | By Ken Kingery

Environmental structure affects interactions between microbial species, making
the common kitchen sponge a better incubator for bacterial diversity than a
laboratory Petri dish

Researchers at Duke University have uncovered a basic but surprising fact:
your kitchen sponge is a better incubator for diverse bacterial communities
than a laboratory Petri dish. But it’s not just the trapped leftovers that
make the cornucopia of microbes swarming around so happy and productive, it’s
the structure of the sponge itself.

In a series of experiments, the scientists show how various microbial species
can affect one another’s population dynamics depending on factors of their
structural environment such as complexity and size. Some bacteria thrive in a
diverse community while others prefer a solitary existence. And a physical
environment that allows both kinds to live their best lives leads to the
strongest levels of biodiversity.

Soil provides this sort of optimal mixed-housing environment, and so does your
kitchen sponge.

The Duke biomedical engineers say their results suggest that structural
environments should be taken into account by industries that use bacteria to
accomplish tasks such as cleaning up pollution or producing commercial
products.

The results appeared online February 9 in the journal Nature Chemical Biology.

“Bacteria are just like people living through the pandemic — some find it
difficult being isolated while others thrive,” said Lingchong You, professor
of biomedical engineering at Duke. “We’ve demonstrated that in a complex
community that has both positive and negative interactions between species,
there is an intermediate amount of integration that will maximize its overall
coexistence.”

Microbial communities mix in varying degrees throughout nature. Soil provides
many nooks and crannies for different populations to grow without much
interaction from their neighbors. The same can be said for individual droplets
of water on the tops of leaves.

But when humans throw many bacterial species together into a structureless
goop to produce commodities like alcohol, biofuel and medications, it’s
usually on a plate or even a big vat. In their experiments, You and his
laboratory show why these industrial efforts may be wise to begin taking a
structural approach to their manufacturing efforts.

The researchers barcoded about 80 different strains of _E. coli_ so that they
could track their population growth. Then they mixed the bacteria in various
combinations on laboratory growth plates with a wide variety of potential
living spaces ranging from six large wells to 1,536 tiny wells. The large
wells approximated environments in which microbial species can mix freely,
while the small wells mimicked spaces where species could keep to themselves.

Regardless of the habitat sizes, the results were the same. The small wells
that began with a handful of species wound up evolving into a community with
only one or two strains surviving. Similarly, the large wells that began with
a broad range of biodiversity also ended the experiment with only one or two
species remaining.

“The small portioning really hurt the species that depend on interactions with
other species to survive, while the large portioning eliminated the members
that suffer from these interactions (the loners),” You said. “But the
intermediate portioning allowed a maximum diversity of survivors in the
microbial community.”

The results, You says, create a framework for researchers working with diverse
bacterial communities to begin testing what structural environments might work
best for their pursuits. They also point toward why a kitchen sponge is such a
useful habitat for microbes. It mimics the different degrees of separation
found in healthy soil, providing different layers of separation combined with
different sizes of communal spaces.

To prove this point, the researchers also ran their experiment with a strip of
regular household sponge. The results showed that it’s an even better
incubator of microbial diversity than any of the laboratory equipment they
tested.

“As it turns out, a sponge is a very simple way to implement multilevel
portioning to enhance the overall microbial community,” You said. “Maybe
that’s why it’s a really dirty thing — the structure of a sponge just makes a
perfect home for microbes.”

This research was supported by the National Institutes of Health (R01GM098642,
R01GM110494), the National Science Foundation (MCB-1412459, MCB-1937259; DEB
1257882), the Office of Naval Research (N00014-12-1-0631) and the Army
Research Office (W911NF-14-1-0490).

CITATION: “Modulation of Microbial Community Dynamics by Spatial
Partitioning,” Feilun Wu, Yuanchi Ha, Andrea Weiss, Meidi Wang , Jeffrey
Letourneau, Shangying Wang, Nan Luo, Shuquan Huang, Charlotte T. Lee, Lawrence
David and Lingchong You. Nature Chemical Biology, 2022. DOI:
10.1038/s41589-021-00961-w

# # #

## Related News

January 16, 2019

### Simple Rules Predict and Explain Biological Mutualism

February 21, 2018

### New Tool Tells Bioengineers When to Build Microbial Teams

October 08, 2013

### Growing Bacteria Keep Time, Know Their Place

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

