

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Strength in Numbers

August 27, 2018

Duke Technology Scholars Program brings women pursuing computing majors
together to navigate challenges in tech

From Duke Today

_Intelligent. Persistent. Exuberant._

These are the three words that sum up joint computer science and electrical
and computer engineering student Maddie Wilkinson, according to her supervisor
Stacey Krug. Krug manages client relationships at Lucid Dream, a Durham-based
software company that builds virtual and augmented reality applications to
help large enterprise clients with training, marketing, sales, and
recruitment. Krug hired Wilkinson as an intern this summer, through the Duke
Technology Scholars program—aka “DTech.”

“Maddie was very self-directed and had no trouble jumping into client
projects,” said Krug. “We had a very busy summer, and I can’t imagine what it
would have been like for us if Maddie wasn’t on the team. Her contributions
undoubtedly helped us meet our deadlines and create impactful work.”

It might surprise Krug to know that Wilkinson, who has wanted to be a
scientist since third grade and who learned how to use accelerometers to
approximate forward motion in virtual reality applications before she even
graduated from high school, felt unsure about her role at Lucid Dream despite
her proficiency.

“Towards the beginning of my internship I was very nervous about not knowing
anything,” said Wilkinson. “We were working with software that I hadn’t used
in a long time. I was constantly asking questions, and I was really nervous
about not being able to contribute.”

As a DTech Scholar, though, Wilkinson had a ready-made support network at her
fingertips. DTech exists to close the gender gap in the tech sector. A
collaborative program between Duke’s Trinity College of Arts & Sciences and
Pratt School of Engineering, it serves women in both computer science and
engineering by connecting them with paid internships, shared housing, year-
round training and professional development opportunities and access to a
network of tech mentors who are deeply invested in their professional success.

In this, its third summer, the program has expanded into North Carolina’s
Research Triangle, an area anchored by three major research universities and
home to one of the largest research and development parks in the world.
Companies including Optum, NetApp, McClatchy, Fidelity Investments, Cisco,
Sensel, Quantworx, Lucid Dream, IBM, Blur Product Development, Duke Office of
Information Technology and Adwerx employ the 19 scholars who live together in
downtown Durham.

Wilkinson said it was helpful to go home and talk to her peers at the end of
the day, and realize that everyone was having the same experience.

“It’s been fabulous, honestly,” she said.

Her friend and fellow DTech Scholar Joanna Li said that the built-in support
network afforded by that shared space was the biggest reason she applied to
the program.

> "I never really realized that the field was so male-dominated until I got to
> my first high school computer science class.”
>
> Joanna Li '20, ECE

Growing up, she was really into computer games, said Li. “That’s how I got
into computer science—making my own games. I never really realized that the
field was so male-dominated until I got to my first high school computer
science class,” she said. “Out of 25 people, there were only two girls in the
class. The boys didn’t want to talk to me, so I sat by myself.”

Regardless of her feelings of isolation, Li clung to what she loved. Now a
rising junior, she has made the shift to major in electrical and computer
engineering, and has discovered in the DTech program the community she was
lacking.

“I’ve just never had a close circle of women friends,” said Li. “I love it. We
can talk about anything.”

“Anything” includes some of the pervasive problems facing women in tech—like
being judged as unreliable because you’re female, or being steered into
project management roles when you’re a serious developer.

In these situations, having access to female industry leaders and experienced
mentors who can help the women realize their full potential is critical for
their future success in tech, according to DTech Executive Director Monica
Jenkins.

Both Li and Wilkinson said they intend to head west for next summer’s
internships, to explore more of what the tech sector has to offer before they
graduate. Li has her sights set on Seattle, and Wilkinson wants to see what
it’s like to work at a large Silicon Valley company.

To date, every graduate of the DTech program has continued on the path to a
tech career.

“We are elated that the students who have participated in DTech have all gone
into industry positions or graduate school in technology,” said Shaundra
Daily, associate professor of the practice in electrical and computer
engineering and faculty director of the DTech program. “We believe this
reinforces that our strategies of mentorship, community and skills-based
training support young women in gaining the confidence and experience
necessary to be successful after they graduate.”

For the remainder of this summer’s internship, though, Wilkinson will continue
to focus on developing a virtual reality experience for hiring managers and
leadership teams, in which participants are challenged to recognize and
respond to instances of preferential treatment or unfair advantage in the
workplace.

“It’s called ‘Unconscious Bias,’” said Wilkinson.

That’s something women in tech experience all the time—but Wilkinson’s
involvement with DTech may help herto overcome it in the future.

Learn more about DTech

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

