

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Students Dance Their Way Out of "AI Bias"

March 10, 2020

Class teaches students how to consider people’s emotions, facial expressions,
cultural differences, cultural similarities and interactions when designing
new technologies

_By Jordan Anderson, forDuke Research Blog_

Martin Brooke is no ordinary Engineering professor at Duke University. He
teaches computer scientists, engineers, and technology nerds how to dance.

Brooke co-teaches Performance and Technology, an interactive course where
students create performance projects and discuss theoretical and historical
implications of technologies in performance. In a unique partnership with
Thomas DeFrantz, a professor of African and African American Studies and Dance
students will design a technology based on “heart,” for example, in order to
understand how human expression is embedded in technology. Two weeks later,
they’ll interact with motion-sensing, robotic trees that give hugs; and 3D
printed hearts that detect colors and match people, sort of like a robotic
tinder.

Brooke loves that this class is fun and interactive, but more importantly he
loves that this class teaches students how to consider people’s emotions,
facial expressions, cultural differences, cultural similarities and
interactions when designing new technologies.

Human interface is when a computerized program or device takes input from
humans — like an image of a face — and gives an output — like unlocking a
phone. In order for these devices to understand human interface, the
programmer must first understand how humans express themselves. This means
that scientists, programmers, and engineers need to understand a particular
school of learning: the humanities. “There are very, very few scientists who
do human interface research,” Brooke said.

> "There are very, very few scientists who do human interface research."
>
> Professor of ELectrical and Computer Engineering Martin Brooke

The students designed a robotic “Tinder” that changes colors when it detects a
match.

Brooke also mentioned the importance of understanding human expressions and
interactions in order to limit computer bias. Computer bias occurs when a
programmer’s prejudiced opinions of others are transferred into the computer
products they design. For example, many recent studies have proven that facial
recognition software inaccurately identifies black individuals when searching
for suspects of a criminal case.

“It turns out one of the biggest problems with technology today is human
interface,” Brooke said. “Microsoft found out that they had a motion sensitive
Artificial Intelligence that tended to say women, [more often than men], were
angry.” Brooke said he didn’t consider the importance of incorporating the
arts and humanities into engineering before coming to Duke. He suggested that
it can be uncomfortable for some scientists to think and express themselves
artistically. “[When] technologists [take Performance

and Technology], for example, they are terrified of the performance aspects of
it. We have some video of a guy saying, ‘I didn’t realize I was going to have
to perform.’ Yeah, that’s what we were actually quite worried about, but in
the end, he’s there in the video, doing slow motion running on stage — fully
involved, actually performing, and really enjoying it.

Duke has a strong initiative to promote arts and humanities inclusion in
science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. Brooke plans to bring Bass
Connections, a research program that focuses on public outreach and cross-
disciplinary work, to his Performance and Technology class before the end of
the semester to demonstrate bias through a program he calls _AI Bias In the
Age of a Technical Elite._ __

> “You give it someone’s name and it will come up with a movie title, their
> role, and a synopsis of the movie. When I put in my name, which is an
> English name, it said that the movie I would be in is about a little boy who
> lives in the English countryside who turns into a monster and terrorizes the
> town.”

“You give it someone’s name and it will come up with a movie title, their
role, and a synopsis of the movie,” Brooke said. “When I put in my name, which
is an English name, it said that the movie I would be in is about a little boy
who lives in the English countryside who turns into a monster and terrorizes
the town.” This program shows even something as simple as a name can have so
much stigma attached to it.

Brooke’s hope is that his class teaches students to think about technology and
human interface. “Hopefully that’s a real benefit to them when they get out
actually designing products.”

More News From ECE

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

