

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Students Lead Earthquake Resilience Project in Nepal

October 17, 2019 | Miranda Volborth

Duke civil and environmental engineering team partners with engineering
students in Nepal to develop earthquake resilience technology

Duke engineering student Rachael Lau received two unexpected gifts from the
universe, in honor of her 21st birthday.

The first gift was being seated next to a Beloit College undergraduate from
Kathmandu on the first leg of her trek from Illinois to Nepal. Lau was
traveling to advance plans for a project supporting earthquake resiliency in
Nepal. Her classmate and fellow NAE Grand Challenges Scholar Tenzin Yangkey,
and civil and environmental engineering professor Henri Gavin would join her
later, but for the time being she was flying solo. She was happy to have
someone to talk to during the 17-hour flight, especially someone who had a
personal stake in her project.

Lau’s second gift was having their conversation overheard by another
passenger— a Notre Dame University PhD candidate studying behavioral responses
to earthquakes, who introduced herself to Lau at baggage claim when the plane
landed in Delhi.

The serendipity of meeting two student travelers who shared her interests was
delightful, said Lau. But over the course of the summer, as the importance of
understanding the human response to earthquake warnings would become clear,
the chance encounter with the second student would help shape the future of
the project.

## Students Step Up

In April and May of 2015, a series of powerful earthquakes with magnitudes of
7.8 and 7.3 devastated Nepal, taking nearly 9,000 lives and costing $7 billion
in damages—nearly half the country’s GDP. Pratiksha Sharma ’18 was a first-
year Duke electrical engineering student at the time. That summer she worked
in her home country, alongside fellow Nepali students studying at Duke, on
relief efforts to supply shelter to outlying regions before the summer monsoon
season started. By the time she began her second year at Duke she nurtured a
bold ambition: to use her engineering knowledge to mitigate the disastrous
effects of future earthquakes in Nepal.

By the time Sharma graduated, she had developed a microcontroller-based
earthquake detection sensor and deployed it in two locations in Kathmandu,
where it is working effectively to this day. It was an incredible beginning to
her dream of establishing an earthquake warning system in Nepal—but as any
engineer knows, the first design is very rarely the final product.

Gavin, who served as Sharma’s advisor, saw the potential to expand her project
and strengthen its impact by working with partners in Nepal to advance sensor
network technology and reliable AI. What’s more, he saw that students could
take the helm. He recruited Lau, a civil and environmental engineering major
who had already racked up significant international project management
experience in Madagascar and China, for the project. Lau, in turn, reached out
to Yangkey, who she knew to be interested in environmental issues facing the
Himalayas. The team, which also included Flurina Boslough ME ’20, met weekly
throughout the year, building connections with government agencies, NGOs, and
their university partner, Tribhuvan University’s Institute of Engineering
(IOE) in Lalitpur City, Nepal.

At IOE—which is recognized as the country’s top engineering school—dozens of
students had put their names forward to be considered for the project, and
three civil and electrical engineering faculty members selected 26 motivated
and talented individuals to go forward. At the very first meeting bringing
together Duke and IOE, the students sorted themselves into three technical
teams: hardware and software development, seismic attenuation modeling, and
hazard analysis.

They hit the ground running, and to say that Gavin was impressed by the teams’
engineering prowess would be an understatement. “Talent and potential is a
gift that is uniformly spread around the globe, and is concentrated in places
like IOE,” said Gavin.

Working together, the students from Duke and the IOE Pulchowk Campus improved
the original sensor’s operating system to support an IoT server, making it
programmable via the internet, while at the same time securing it from the
threat of cyber hazards. They also extended the sensor’s original algorithm to
make cooperation amongst multiple sensors possible. From the first three
seconds of a quake’s pressure wave, or P-wave—the waves that precede the more
damaging shear waves—they can invert to determine its origin and magnitude,
and triangulate to determine the distance from the other sensors in the
network.

With all earthquake early warning systems, the tolerance for false positives
(vibrations that are from a source other than seismic events) is essentially
zero. The team can achieve this through continued refinement of P-wave
detection and seismic source inversion.

But there is another challenge—perhaps a greater one—to the future success of
the project.

## Clear Communications

In July 2019, a magnitude 7.1 earthquake shook the Mojave Desert with quakes
so strong that they were felt by residents of Los Angeles, 25 miles to the
south. Half a million of those residents had downloaded a new app that was
supposed to give advance warning of earthquakes, the LA Times reported. But,
in this case, the app was silent.

Prevailing public perception was that the app had failed. Seismologists,
however, stated that it worked exactly as it was supposed to; in Los Angeles,
the quakes didn’t meet the threshold necessary to generate an alert.

The miscommunication illustrated a critical point—that efficiently and
accurately gathering data solves only one part of the problem, and
understanding how to best translate the data to be actionable and useful is
quite another.

For the Duke-IOE project, this means incorporating social knowledge alongside
technical expertise. “It is our highest priority going forward,” said Gavin.
“We need to build, in an evidence-based way, the knowledge required to
demonstrate that this is a safe and viable solution—including knowledge of
human response. Of all the aspects involved, the social science aspect is
probably the most challenging and certainly the most understudied.”

When the team decided that it was necessary to formally incorporate social
sciences into their project, Lau knew exactly who to reach out to for advice
on how to begin: Shana Scogin, the PhD student she’d met in the airport in
Delhi, at the beginning of the summer. “She began asking us questions that we
as engineers need to be thinking about, in terms of how earthquakes and
warning systems are perceived socially,” said Lau.

To delve into the realm of social sciences more deeply, Yangkey and Lau will
teach a “House Course” in the spring of 2020, which will broadly cover the
human response to both natural and human-made disasters.

“The house course is primarily meant for facilitating discussions on
understanding modern disaster through our lens of intersectional identities,”
explained Yangkey. “We also hope to explore social sciences as part of
disaster preparedness and response, which is one of the most important things
for future project development, and one of the most challenging to get right.”

At the same time, Yangkey and Lau will continue to work on getting the
sensor’s false-positive rates down to zero.

To demonstrate a commitment to the long-term vision of the project, Duke and
IOE recently signed a Memorandum of Understanding that details objectives over
the next several years.

“Through peer-to-peer co-development, students are more than full partners in
this project—they’re leaders,” said Gavin. “They’re leading their world toward
a more resilient future.”

More News From Duke CEE

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

