

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

#  Studying Bioaerosols in Cities with Poor Sanitation

August 7, 2019

Duke One Health researchers conduct bioaerosol sampling in La Paz, Bolivia, to
better understand pathogen exposure

In many places in the world, including La Paz, Bolivia, dense urban
populations come into contact with uncontained human excreta. Duke One Health
researchers hypothesize that part of the exposure comes from the Choqueyapu
River, which is used as an open sewer, carrying the waste of around one
million citizens as well as industrial and hospital wastewater. Exposure to
enteric pathogens found in the Choqueyapu can result in diarrheal disease, one
of the leading causes of death in children under the age of five. The
resulting disease has been further linked to acute lower respiratory
infections.

Lucas Rocha-Melogno, a PhD candidate in environmental engineering and Global
Health Doctoral Scholar at Duke University, as well as a native of La Paz,
returned to his home to collect bioaerosol samples along the Choqueyapu River
and investigate whether this exposure could be creating lifetime health
deficits on children or vulnerable individuals. The One Health researchers are
developing a mathematical model for bioaerosol transport in La Paz, to
estimate how far the living microbes travel and to develop a Quantitative
Microbial Risk Assessment. The collaborative project, involving researchers
from Duke, Georgia Tech, Universidad Católica Boliviana and Universidad Mayor
de San Andrés, is led by Duke civil and environmental engineering professor
Marc Deshusses.

Rocha-Melogno said he wants to develop quantitative estimates to assess the
potential impact of these aerosolized pathogens on his fellow Bolivians so
that local authorities can take action. Read more about his research at Duke
One Health.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

