

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Superfast Fluorescence Sets New Speed Record

July 27, 2015 | By Ken Kingery

Plasmonic device has speed and efficiency to serve optical computers

Researchers have developed an ultrafast light-emitting device that can flip on
and off 90 billion times a second and could form the basis of optical
computing.

At its most basic level, your smart phone’s battery is powering billions of
transistors using electrons to flip on and off billions of times per second.
But if microchips could use photons instead of electrons to process and
transmit data, computers could operate even faster.

But first engineers must build a light source that can be turned on and off
that rapidly. While lasers can fit this requirement, they are too energy-
hungry and unwieldy to integrate into computer chips.

Duke University researchers are now one step closer to such a light source. In
a new study, a team from the Pratt School of Engineering pushed semiconductor
quantum dots to emit light at more than 90 gigahertz. This so-called plasmonic
device could one day be used in optical computing chips or for optical
communication between traditional electronic microchips.

The study was published online on July 27 in Nature Communications.

“This is something that the scientific community has wanted to do for a long
time,” said Maiken Mikkelsen, an assistant professor of electrical and
computer engineering and physics at Duke. “We can now start to think about
making fast-switching devices based on this research, so there’s a lot of
excitement about this demonstration.”

The new speed record was set using plasmonics. When a laser shines on the
surface of a silver cube just 75 nanometers wide, the free electrons on its
surface begin to oscillate together in a wave. These oscillations create their
own light, which reacts again with the free electrons. Energy trapped on the
surface of the nanocube in this fashion is called a plasmon.

The plasmon creates an intense electromagnetic field between the silver
nanocube and a thin sheet of gold placed a mere 20 atoms away. This field
interacts with quantum dots—spheres of semiconducting material just six
nanometers wide—that are sandwiched in between the nanocube and the gold. The
quantum dots, in turn, produce a directional, efficient emission of photons
that can be turned on and off at more than 90 gigahertz.

“There is great interest in replacing lasers with LEDs for short-distance
optical communication, but these ideas have always been limited by the slow
emission rate of fluorescent materials, lack of efficiency and inability to
direct the photons,” said Gleb Akselrod, a postdoctoral research in
Mikkelsen’s laboratory. “Now we have made an important step towards solving
these problems.”

“The eventual goal is to integrate our technology into a device that can be
excited either optically or electrically,” said Thang Hoang, also a
postdoctoral researcher in Mikkelsen’s laboratory. “That’s something that I
think everyone, including funding agencies, is pushing pretty hard for.”

The group is now working to use the plasmonic structure to create a single
photon source—a necessity for extremely secure quantum communications—by
sandwiching a single quantum dot in the gap between the silver nanocube and
gold foil. They are also trying to precisely place and orient the quantum dots
to create the fastest fluorescence rates possible.

Aside from its potential technological impacts, the research demonstrates that
well-known materials need not be limited by their intrinsic properties.

“By tailoring the environment around a material, like we’ve done here with
semiconductors, we can create new designer materials with almost any optical
properties we desire,” said Mikkelsen. “And that’s an emerging area that’s
fascinating to think about.”

This work was supported by the Air Force Office of Scientific Research Young
Investigator Program (AFOSR, Grant. No. FA9550-15-1-0301), the Air Force
Office of Scientific Research (AFOSR, Grant No. FA9550-12-1-0491), an Oak
Ridge Associated University’s Ralph E. Powe Junior Faculty Enhancement Award,
the Lord Foundation of North Carolina, and the Intelligence Community
Postdoctoral Research Fellowship Program.

###

“Ultrafast Spontaneous Emission Source Using Plasmonic Nanoantennas.” Thang B.
Hoang, Gleb M. Akselrod, Christos Argyropoulos, Jiani Huang, David R. Smith &
Maiken H. Mikkelsen. Nature Communications, July 27, 2015. DOI:
10.1038/ncomms8788

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

