

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Supplying Neuroscience Laboratories with Tomorrow’s Brain Interfaces

November 1, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

Duke receives $3.4 million to improve today's best brain sensor technologies
and push them into neuroscience labs worldwide

Researchers at Duke University want to help colleagues around the world
eavesdrop on tens of thousands of neurons at once.

Jonathan Viventi, assistant professor of biomedical engineering and neurology
at Duke, has received a three-year, $3.4 million grant from the National
Institutes of Health’s Brain Research through Advancing Innovative
Neurotechnologies (BRAIN) Initiative. The award will support Viventi and
colleagues at New York University, Columbia University and the University of
Illinois Urbana-Champaign as they refine today’s best brain interface
technologies for everyday laboratory use.

“Our goal is to make usable devices that are stable, repeatable and easy to
build that we can then share with the neuroscience community at-large to
accelerate research,” said Viventi. “There’s usually a valley between state-
of-the-art devices being used in only a few laboratories and the rest of the
scientific community. We’re trying to bridge that valley.”

For the past several years, Viventi and other researchers in neuroscience have
been developing flexible electronics requiring only a fraction of the wiring
of past systems. This has dramatically increased the number of neural sensors
a single device can contain.

Rather than having a couple hundred sensors—each with its own wire—thin,
flexible silicon electronics can do the same in less space and with fewer
wires. It was only a couple of years ago that Viventi succeeded in creating a
thin, flexible array of 360 sensors that required only 39 wires.

With the new BRAIN Initiative grant, Viventi and his colleagues are looking to
push the number of electrodes more than 100 times higher to 65,536 with 100
times the density of their current devices. The sensors will also sample at
faster rates, allowing researchers to record activity from individual neurons.

These devices, however, are only for recording neurons from the surface of the
brain. To get at the networks and complexities within, Viventi will also be
pursuing wireless penetrating electrodes. By being fully untethered and
flexible, these devices will be able to move with the brain inside of the
skull, reducing injury and improving their performance.

The technology will also have applications in diagnosing and treating
neurological disorders. Viventi plans to test their ability to improve motor
prosthetics and to better diagnose and treat epilepsy using responsive
stimulation.

“We have a bunch of groups lined up who want to use these devices,” said
Viventi. “We’ll be making our technologies available for use in animal models
within their labs and throughout the neuroscience community.”

The BRAIN Initiative was announced in April 2013 by President Obama as a bold,
new initiative focused on revolutionizing our understanding of the human
brain. As one of the Administration’s “Grand Challenges,” the Initiative has
ambitious but achievable goals that require advances in science and
technology.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

