

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Synthetic Compartments Stop Pathogens from Sharing Antibiotic Resistance
Genes

February 6, 2023 | By Ken Kingery

Emerging field of synthetic condensates isolates or traps together
biomolecules to control cellular processes

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have demonstrated a new synthetic
approach to controlling cellular biochemical processes. Rather than creating
particles or structures that directly interact with cellular machinery through
traditional “lock and key” mechanisms, cells are directed to build
compartments that physically stop — or encourage — biomolecular functions.

The researchers demonstrate that their approach can affect two cellular
processes, one responsible for spreading genetic instructions amongst bacteria
and the other for modulating protein circuits in mammalian cells. The results
could prove invaluable to developing new strategies to understand and fight
disease or to stop the spread of antibiotic-resistant pathogens.

The results appear online February 6 in the journal Nature Chemical Biology.

“A living cell is like a dense noodle soup, the density of the biomolecules in
the cell is sometimes described as putting every human on the planet into the
Great Salt Lake,” said Yifan Dai, a postdoctoral researcher working in the
laboratory of Ashutosh Chilkoti, the Alan L. Kaganov Distinguished Professor
of Biomedical Engineering and the laboratory of Lingchong You, the James L.
Meriam Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering at Duke.

“Amber formation sometimes locks and preserves animals for thousands of years
because of its distinct material properties compared to the surrounding
environment,” Dai said. “Scientists thought that maybe cells can do the same
thing with information.”

> “Amber formation sometimes locks and preserves animals for thousands of
> years because of its distinct material properties compared to the
> surrounding environment. Scientists thought that maybe cells can do the same
> thing with information.”
>
> yifan dai

Biological micromachinery generally relies on so-called “lock and key”
mechanisms, where a protein, genetic strand or other biomolecule is just the
right shape and size to interact with its target structure. Because these are
the easiest and most obvious processes to study and recreate, nearly all
biomedical research has been focused on its vast, complex web of machinery.

But because cells are so densely packed with this biomolecular machinery, and
they need to control activity to respond to different needs throughout their
lifetime, scientists have long suspected they must have ways of dialing
activities up and down. But it wasn’t until 2009 that researchers discovered
the mechanism of one such method, called phase separation mediated biological
condensates.

Biological condensates are small compartments that cells can build to either
separate or trap together certain proteins and molecules, either hindering or
promoting their activity. Researchers are just beginning to understand how
condensates work and what they could be used for. Creating a platform that can
tell cells to create synthetic versions of these biomolecular cages is a large
step toward both goals.

“To me, what's most remarkable is the effectiveness of the rules emerging from
past studies in guiding the rational engineering of the physical properties of
these condensates, which in turn work effectively in living cells despite the
many confounding factors associated with the intracellular environment,” You
said.

> “These synthetic condensates can then be turned on inside the cell to
> control how the cell functions. This paper is part of an emerging field that
> will allow us to reprogram life in new and exciting ways.”
>
> ashutosh chilkoti

In the paper, Dai, Chilkoti, You and their colleagues from the laboratory of
Rohit V. Pappu, the Gene K. Beare Distinguished Professor of Biomedical
Engineering and the director of the Center for Biomolecular Condensates at
Washington University in St. Louis, demonstrate the creation of a synthetic
set of genetic instructions that causes cells to create different types of
condensates that trap various biomolecular processes. In one example, they
build condensates that stop small packets of DNA called plasmids from
traveling between bacteria in a process called horizontal gene transfer. This
process is one of the primary methods pathogens use to spread resistance to
antibiotics, and stopping it from happening could be a key step toward
fighting the creation and proliferation of “superbugs.”

The researchers also show that they can use this approach to control the
transcription of DNA into RNA in E. coli, effectively amplifying the
expression of a specific gene by bringing different factors together. They
further demonstrate this approach to modulate protein circuits in mammalian
cells. Modulating the activity of specific genes and protein activities could
be a useful way of combatting a wide variety of diseases, especially genetic
diseases.

"This paper shows that we, as biomedical engineers, can design new molecular
parts from the ground up, convince the cell to make them, and assemble these
parts inside the cell to make a new machine,” said Chilkoti. “These synthetic
condensates can then be turned on inside the cell to control how the cell
functions. This paper is part of an emerging field that will allow us to
reprogram life in new and exciting ways.”

This research was supported by the Air Force Office of Scientific Research
(FA9550-20-1-0241) and the National Institutes of Health (MIRA R35GM127042 and
R01EB031869).

CITATION: “Programmable Synthetic Biomolecular Condensates for Cellular
Control,” Yifan Dai, Mina Farag, Dongheon Lee, Xiangze Zeng, Kyeri Kim, Hye-in
Son, Xiao Guo, Jonathon Su, Nikhil Peterson, Javid Mohammad, Max Ney, Daniel
Mark Shapiro, Rohit V. Pappu, Ashutosh Chilkoti, Lingchong You. Nature
Chemical Biology, Feb. 6, 2023. DOI: 10.1038/s41589-022-01252-8

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

