

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Tadross Receives Parkinson’s Disease Foundation Award

April 20, 2017

The three-year, $300,000 award will support Tadross’s continued work to
explore the neurological and biomolecular roots of Parkinson’s disease using
his novel drug targeting system

Michael Tadross, assistant professor of biomedical engineering at Duke
University, has been chosen as a recipient of the competitive 2017 PDF Stanley
Fahn Junior Faculty Award. Managed by the Parkinson's Foundation Grants Review
Committee, the new program supports junior faculty at a critical time of
career transition.

The three-year, $300,000 award will support Tadross’s continued work to
explore the neurological and biomolecular roots of Parkinson’s disease using
his novel drug targeting system. The system, named DART (Drugs Acutely
Restricted by Tethering), allows researchers to deliver pharmaceuticals to
specific types of neurons in the brain.

Many molecular targets of drugs are shared between different types of neurons.
And because pharmaceuticals affect all of them, it has been impossible to
disentangle the benefits certain drugs may provide by acting on one type of
neuron from the adverse side-effects generated from effects on another.

In its recent inaugural study, DART revealed how movement difficulties in a
mouse model of Parkinson's disease are controlled by the AMPA receptor
(AMPAR)—a synaptic protein that enables neurons to receive fast incoming
signals from other neurons in the brain. The results revealed why a recent
clinical trial of an AMPAR-blocking drug failed, and offered a new approach to
using the pharmaceutical.

"The insights we gained in studying Parkinson's mice were unexpected and could
not have been obtained with any previous method,” said Tadross. “This grant
will be instrumental in supporting my work to continue to unravel the
intricacies of how pharmaceuticals treat the symptoms of Parkinson’s disease.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

