

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Students Step Up to Help Non-Profits with Coding Needs

August 9, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

New student-led “Tech for Equity” program matches qualified students with
summer internships for community-minded organizations

Matthew Ralph was immediately drawn to the word amongst a jungle of emails
about summer opportunities forwarded through his statistics department at
Duke. For Eunice Kim, the word jumped out at her from a post on a LinkedIn-
like website called Ladder.

That word was “equity,” and it had the exact effect that Albert Sun intended.

“During the height of the pandemic over the summer of 2020, I saw a bunch of
different programs focused on matching interns with companies for virtual
internships,” said Albert Sun, a rising junior majoring in computer science
and mathematics at Duke University. “I had this idea to connect that model to
my passions for [technology] and [working with community organizers]. The
result is this program that [works with] local community organizations to
achieve their missions through technology while providing students with
meaningful summer internships.”

> “I had this idea to connect that model to my passions for [technology] and
> [working with community organizers]. The result is this program that [works
> with] local community organizations to achieve their missions through
> technology while providing students with meaningful summer internships.”
>
> albert sun

Armed with nothing more than an idea and passion, Sun soon found co-
conspirators who shared his vision and were willing to put in the elbow grease
required to get it off the ground. Sara Brackett, program committee lead, is a
rising sophomore double-majoring in computer science and public policy. Jamila
Otieno, student committee lead, is a rising junior majoring in electrical and
computer engineering and computer science. Alex Chao, student committee lead,
is a rising senior majoring in computer science. And Emily Mittleman, client
committee lead, is a rising junior majoring in computer science.

With advice from people involved with Project Phoenix—one of the inspirations
for the internship-matching program—Sun and the leadership group spent months
emailing as many people as they could. They created connections to find
potential community partners who needed help implementing a technical idea.
They blasted email lists and social media sites to attract potential students.
And they found resources to support their idea both financially and
programmatically.

Advised by Becky Simmons, associate professor of the practice of mechanical
engineering and materials science, Tech for Equity received 136 applications
in its inaugural year—far more than the number of positions they could fill.
After interviewing 45 eager applicants, the program matched 19 fellows to 10
different organizations.

“We had been talking with more organizations, but we really wanted to make
sure that our fellows would be a good fit and have a good experience,” said
Sun. “Not only did their interests have to align, but we had to make sure that
the students’ technical skills matched what the projects required.”

“I’m really proud and honestly kind of shocked that we’ve managed to pull it
off to this degree,” said Brackett. “There was this phase of freaking out that
it was actually going to happen. But now we’re all just incredibly excited
that the projects are going as well as they are and that the fellows are
enjoying their experiences.”

## Equal Parts Internship, Community Building and Equity Education

Throughout the summer, the 19 fellows aren’t just working for their $3,000
stipend—they’re also being immersed in a supportive and educational
curriculum. After spending more than a year learning mostly online, the team
knew how hard it was to feel connected to a virtual group. But through a
series of social nights, coffee connections, faculty chats and ethical
trainings, they’re making it work.

> “Since the program is remote for us, it’s hard to make friends or real
> connections. I feel the Tech for Equity program has tried its best to do
> that anyway, through game nights and other events. I’ve really enjoyed the
> program so far.”
>
> eunice kim

“Since the program is remote for us, it’s hard to make friends or real
connections,” said Kim, a rising senior studying statistical and data science
with a minor in economics at Smith College in Northampton, Massachusetts. “I
feel the Tech for Equity program has tried its best to do that anyway, through
game nights and other events. I’ve really enjoyed the program so far.”

“They’ve also done a really good job with different programming, making us
think about questions of equity that are more common to an academic
environment than an internship,” said Ralph, a rising senior studying
statistics and political science at Duke. “They’re taking the extra step
beyond just pairing us with an internship to make sure we’re thinking about
and interacting with these questions about equity.”

## Visualizing Plea Bargaining Data

Besides spending time with each other on community-building and equity-focused
Zoom calls, Kim and Ralph have been working on the same project together for
the Wilson Center for Science and Justice at Duke Law School. This summer, the
district attorneys for Durham County, North Carolina and Berkshire County,
Massachusetts partnered with researchers at the Wilson Center to design and
pilot a new “Plea Tracker” project to generate comprehensive data on the
factors that drive case outcomes.

Despite 90 to 95 percent of all criminal cases ending in plea agreements, what
actually happens during the negotiation process has never been studied in
depth. The Plea Tracker’s initial year-long study seeks to uncover patterns in
how prosecutors use their discretion and apply that information to inform
future policies and decision-making.

Kim and Ralph have spent their summer building a dashboard capable of
displaying the data in ways that can help those involved with the project make
sense of it all. Besides the programming and data science challenges involved,
the two have spent time understanding how the data is collected, the
differences between the two states’ criminal codes and how plea bargaining
actually works to ensure that data are represented accurately and in a useful
way.

“I was a little nervous when we started because I hadn’t had much experience
making any kind of dashboard before, and the system we were using to build it
was new to me,” said Kim. “But after presenting a test demo version to the DA
offices, we’ve put together a more polished version that I think is in a
pretty good place.”

“And we’ve created it in such a way that even after we’re gone, they should be
able to go back and tweak it to fit their needs,” added Ralph. “I think we’ve
given them a strong foundation.”

Other projects enabled by Tech for Equity include an app for Hunger Fighters
Oregon that helps clients get the food that will be of the most use to them, a
mobile app for a reusable take-out container company in Durham called Green
To-Go, and a cloud-based product that demonstrates how algorithmic bias and
data tracking works for a computer science educational program called CSbyUs.

## Expanding Into a More Equitable Future

Moving forward, Sun and the rest of the Tech for Equity leadership hopes their
fledgling program will continue to grow through long-term partnerships with
community organizations. While they did not start out advertising the program
to non-Duke students, they decided to open it up after having conversations
about creating a more equitable program. The initial cohort featured three
non-Duke fellows, and Sun says they are considering keeping the program open
to students outside of Duke to recruit from smaller colleges and HBCUs as part
of a mission to recruit more engineers from under-represented backgrounds in
tech.

> “We don’t want this to be a transactional relationship where students come
> in and get a lot out of it but the organizations don’t. We want these
> partnerships to continue long after we’re gone, so that any project can
> continue in some capacity as long as both sides are interested and excited
> about it.”
>
> jamila otieno

The leadership team also recognizes that summer is not the only time these
organizations could use help, so the group is working to create year-round
opportunities, either independently or through a course offered in spring that
could offer engineering credit.

“We don’t want this to be a transactional relationship where students come in
and get a lot out of it but the organizations don’t,” said Otieno. “We want
these partnerships to continue long after we’re gone, so that any project can
continue in some capacity as long as both sides are interested and excited
about it.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

