

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Three Duke Engineers Named Fellows of the American Association for the
Advancement of Science

November 26, 2019

Ravi Bellamkonda, Ashutosh Chilkoti and Tony Huang are among seven Duke
faculty to join AAAS

Seven members of the Duke University faculty have been named Fellows of the
American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), including three
faculty from the Pratt School of Engineering. Election as an AAAS Fellow is an
honor bestowed upon AAAS members by their peers.

Duke’s 2020 inductees are among 443 new fellows this year who are being
recognized for scientifically or socially distinguished efforts to advance
science or its applications. Inductees from Duke Engineering include:

**Ravi Bellamkonda, Ph.D.,** Vinik Dean of Engineering and Professor of
Biomedical Engineering. Bellamkonda was recognized for his contributions to
neural engineering through the use of materials for nerve and spinal cord
repair and brain tumor therapies, and for innovations in engineering
education. ****

**Ashutosh Chilkoti, Ph.D.,** Alan L. Kaganov Professor and Chair of
Biomedical Engineering. Chilkoti was recognized for his distinguished
contributions to field of biomedical engineering, particularly in the
development of novel methods to deliver biotherapeutics and develop surfaces
that resist protein interactions.

**Tony Huang, Ph.D.,** William Bevan Professor of Mechanical Engineering and
Mechanical Science. Huang was recognized for his distinguished contributions
to the field of acoustofluidics, particularly for developing acoustic tweezers
that are capable of precisely manipulating bioparticles in complex fluids.

View the original announcement on Duke Today to see the full list of inductees
from Duke University.

The new fellows will be presented with an official certificate and a gold and
blue (representing science and engineering, respectively) rosette pin on
February 15 during the 2020 AAAS Annual Meeting in Seattle.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

