

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Tire Sensor Technology Launches Multi-Million Dollar Startup

February 20, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

Durham startup Tyrata secures $4.5 million based on Duke technology license

A sensor technology that can determine the real-time tread wear of tires on
the road has been licensed from Duke University by a startup company backed by
a leader in parts distribution and provider of replacement tires for
automotive dealerships.

Tyrata, Inc., announced today the closing of $4.5 million in series A
financing from several investors, including a leading investment by Dealer
Tire, LLC. The funding will allow the Durham, North Carolina startup to
develop the sensor technology into a product and prepare for large-scale
manufacturing. The Tyrata tread wear sensor can be linked to data analytics
systems to improve safety in consumer vehicles, reduce maintenance costs in
large fleet-management operations and provide critical data for the emerging
market of autonomous vehicles.

The technology is the brainchild of Aaron Franklin, associate professor of
electrical and computer engineering and chemistry at Duke. "With all the
technology and sensors in today's cars, it's kind of crazy to think that
there's almost no data being gathered from the only part of the vehicle that
is actually touching the road," Franklin said. "Our tire tread sensor is the
perfect marriage between high-end technology and a simple solution."

Since the technology was originally reported in IEEE Sensors Journal in June
2017, Franklin has been working to commercialize it with colleagues in Duke's
Nicholas School of the Environment led by Jesko von Windheim, associate dean
of innovation and entrepreneurship.

The technology relies on the well-understood mechanics of how electric fields
interact with different materials. The core of the sensor is formed by placing
two small electrodes very close to each other. By applying an oscillating
electrical voltage to one and grounding the other, an electric field forms
between the electrodes.

While most of this electric field passes directly between the two electrodes,
some of the field arcs between them. When a material is placed on top of the
electrodes, it interferes with this so-called "fringing field." By measuring
this interference through the electrical response of the grounded electrode,
it is possible to determine the thickness of the material covering the sensor.

Franklin and his colleagues have spent the past six months optimizing their
original design and showing that it is sensitive enough to work with the thick
treads of semi-trailer truck tires. They have shown that using carbon
nanotubes (tiny cylinders of carbon atoms just one-billionth of a meter in
diameter) allows the sensor to track millimeter-scale changes in tread depth
with high accuracy and sensitivity. The sensors could easily signal when it's
time to replace tires or report information about uneven and often dangerous
tire wear.

"We at Dealer Tire see a strong potential for this technology to improve
consumer safety as it relates to tires," said Scott Mueller, partner and chief
executive officer of Dealer Tire. "The investment in Tyrata is consistent with
our strategy to enhance tire safety and provide exceptional, value-added
services to our stakeholders and for the benefit of the overall industry."

The investment, Franklin says, would not have been possible without the
collaboration with the Nicholas School.

"Jesko and his colleagues have unique experience and support capabilities that
allow them to quickly ramp up a startup," Franklin said. "I was amazed at how
efficiently they were able to take what we'd been trying to do for months with
limited success and organize it into a smooth and effective effort that
brought investors to the table."

"At the Nicholas School, we have focused on developing an entrepreneurship
ecosystem that includes experienced entrepreneurs working with faculty and
students in an educational environment supported by the Office of Research
Support, the Office of Licensing and Ventures and the Duke Innovation &
Entrepreneurship Initiative," says von Windheim. "The launch of Tyrata
represents a validation of our efforts and a wonderful success for the
Nicholas School and for our donors who have generously supported the
development of this ecosystem."

In addition to serving as associate dean at the Nicholas School, von Windheim
is the Lynn Gorguze-Scott Peters Professor of the Practice in Environmental
Entrepreneurship and Innovation.

David Koester, associate in research at the Environmental Innovation and
Entrepreneurship Program, and John Glushik, managing director of the Duke
Angel Network at the Duke Innovation and Entrepreneurship Initiative (DIEI),
worked with Franklin and von Windheim to launch the new company.

Additional support was provided by Joseph Andrews, a PhD student in electrical
and computer engineering at the Pratt School, Allison Besch, director of
executive education programs at the Nicholas School, Marie-Angela Della Pia,
community director at Duke I&E, and Brian Lowinger, assistant director of
contracts and compliance at the Office of Research Support.

"It's hard to imagine a more textbook example of how university innovation can
be translated into a very solid startup, with sufficient funding and key
partners that will help bring the technology to market," reflected Franklin.
"This is all thanks to an impressive entrepreneurial ecosystem at Duke."

# # #

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

