

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Truskey Reappointed as Senior Associate Dean for Duke Engineering

August 10, 2017

Priorities include first-year student learning, including innovative new
courses in data, design and computing

George A. Truskey has been reappointed as senior associate dean of the Pratt
School of Engineering for a four-year term, serving through June 30, 2021.

In this role, Truskey provides overarching leadership for research advancement
and space planning at Pratt, while leading additional strategic initiatives in
close partnership with the dean and other school leaders.

Current areas of focus include working with faculty to implement undergraduate
curriculum revisions with a focus on first-year student learning, by way of
innovative new courses in data, design and computing piloting during the
2017-2018 academic year; working with the Master’s Leadership Council to
expand and integrate engineering master’s programs and enhance the student
experience; and continuing to oversee design and development of the planned
new building for Duke Engineering.

To further accelerate the school’s growing $70-million-per-year research
enterprise, Truskey will also focus on expanding interdisciplinary research
proposals for new projects and centers, supporting and evaluating existing
school-based research centers and strengthening mentorship for junior faculty.

“We are fortunate to have a leader of George’s experience, wisdom and ability
at Pratt,” said Ravi V. Bellamkonda, Vinik Dean of Engineering. “I am
particularly happy that his contributions to Pratt’s scholarship, mentorship,
infrastructure and undergraduate education are going to be shaping Duke
Engineering well into the future. George is both contemplative and decisive,
and he always listens, follows a fair process, but also does not hesitate to
take bold positions. He is a special scholar and leader.”

Truskey, who currently holds the R. Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Professorship
in Biomedical Engineering, has been a member of the Duke engineering faculty
since 1987. He served as chair of the Department of Biomedical Engineering
from 2003-2011, senior associate dean for research from 2011-2015, and interim
dean from 2015-2016.

A fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the
Biomedical Engineering Society (BMES), the American Institute for Medical and
Biological Engineering and the American Heart Association, he leads research
focused on microphysiological systems, cardiovascular tissue engineering and
the role of physical forces in atherosclerosis.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

