

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Tumor-Seeking Salmonella Treats Brain Tumors

January 11, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

New approach produces 20 percent survival rate in rat model where few
typically live

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have recruited an unlikely ally in the
fight against the deadliest form of brain cancer—a strain of salmonella that
usually causes food poisoning.

Clinicians sorely need new treatment approaches for glioblastoma, the most
aggressive form of brain cancer. The blood-brain barrier—a protective sheath
separating brain tissue from its blood vessels—makes it difficult to attack
the disease with drugs. It’s also difficult to completely remove through
surgery, as even tiny remnants inevitably spawn new tumors. Even with the best
care currently available, median survival time is a dire 15 months, and only
10 percent of patients survive five years once diagnosed.

The Duke team decided to pursue an aggressive treatment option to match its
opponent, turning to the bacterium Salmonella typhimurium. With a few genetic
tweaks, the engineers turned the bacterium into a cancer-seeking missile that
produces self-destruct orders deep within tumors. Tests in rat models with
extreme cases of the disease showed a remarkable 20 percent survival rate over
100 days—roughly equivalent to 10 human years—with the tumors going into
complete remission.

The results appeared online on December 21, 2016, in the journal Molecular
Therapy – Oncolytics.

“Since glioblastoma is so aggressive and difficult to treat, any change in the
median survival rate is a big deal,” said Johnathan Lyon, a PhD student
working with Ravi Bellamkonda, Vinik Dean of Duke’s Pratt School of
Engineering, whose laboratory is currently transitioning to Duke from Georgia
Tech, where much of the work was completed. “And since few survive a
glioblastoma diagnosis indefinitely, a 20 percent effective cure rate is
phenomenal and very encouraging.”

Previous studies have shown, quite accidentally, that the presence of bacteria
can cause the immune system to recognize and begin attacking tumors. However,
follow-up clinical trials with genetically detoxified strains of S.
typhimurium have since proven ineffective by themselves.

To use these common intestinal bacteria as tumor-seeking missiles, Lyon and
Bellamkonda, working with lead co-author Nalini Mehta, selected a detoxified
strain of S. typhimurium that was also deficient in a crucial enzyme called
purine, forcing the bacteria to seek supplies elsewhere.

Tumors just so happen to be an excellent source of purine, causing the
bacteria to flock to them in droves.

Then, the Duke engineers made a series of genetic tweaks so that the bacteria
would produce two compounds called Azurin and p53 that instruct cells to
commit suicide—but only in the presence of low levels of oxygen. And since
cancerous cells are multiplying so energetically, the environment around and
within tumors has unusually low oxygen.

“A major challenge in treating gliomas is that the tumor is dispersed with no
clear edge, making them difficult to completely surgically remove. So
designing bacteria to actively move and seek out these distributed tumors, and
express their anti-tumor proteins only in hypoxic, purine rich tumor regions
is exciting,” said Ravi Bellamkonda, Vinik Dean of Duke’s Pratt School of
Engineering and corresponding author of the paper. “And because their natural
toxicity has been deactivated, they don’t cause an immunological response. At
the doses we used in the experiments, they were naturally cleared once they’d
killed the tumors, effectively destroying their own food source.”

The researchers tested the modified bacteria by injecting them directly into
the rats’ brains. While this may sound like an extreme delivery option, the
first course of action usually performed with glioblastoma is to surgically
remove the primary tumor, if possible, leaving the opportunity to directly
deliver therapeutics.

The treatment worked in 20 percent of the rats, causing complete tumor
regression and extending their lives by 100 days, which translates to roughly
10 human years.

In the 80 percent that did not survive, however, the treatment didn’t change
the length of time the rats survived. After testing for common signs of
resistance to the anti-tumor compounds and finding none, the researchers
concluded the ineffectiveness was likely due to inconsistencies in the
bacteria’s penetration, or to the aggressive tumor growth outpacing the
bacteria. But every rat showed initial signs of improvement after treatment.

“It might just be a case of needing to monitor the treatment’s progression and
provide more doses at crucial points in the cancer’s development,” said Lyon.
“However, this was our first attempt at designing such a therapy, and there is
some nuance to the specific model we used, thus more experiments are needed to
know for sure.”

The researchers now plan to program their bacteria to produce different drugs
that cause stronger reactions in the tumors. These will be more difficult to
implement, however, as other drugs are not as specific to tumor cells as those
used in this study, making potential side effects more of a concern.

This research was supported by the Ian’s Friends Foundation, Ann Rankin Cowan,
Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta and Georgia Research Alliance.

“Bacterial Carriers for Glioblastoma Therapy.” Nalini Mehta, Johnathan G.
Lyon, Ketki Patil, Nassir Mokarram, Christine Kim, Ravi V. Bellamkonda.
Molecular Therapy – Oncolytics, 2016. DOI: 10.1016/j.omto.2016.12.003

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

