

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Ugonna Ohiri Named 2016 Julian Abele Student of the Year

April 6, 2016

The award is sponsored by the Black Graduate and Professional Student
Association, The Black Student Alliance and the Mary Lou Williams Center for
Black Culture

Ugonna Ohiri, a doctoral student in the laboratory of Nan Jokerst and Chris
Dwyer and president of the Engineering Graduate Student Council, has been
named this year’s Abele Student of the Year for the Pratt School of
Engineering. The award will be presented on stage at the Julian Abele Awards
Ceremony on April 16, 2016, at the Treyburn Country Club.

The award is sponsored by the Black Graduate and Professional Student
Association, The Black Student Alliance and the Mary Lou Williams Center for
Black Culture. It is given to one student of a diverse background from each of
the graduate and professional schools at Duke each year who has excelled
through academic achievement, community service and student organization
involvement. Award winners also embrace diversity through learning and service
to the community and are not only passionate about self-development, but also
dedicated to the growth of their peers.

“We were very pleased to nominate Ugonna for the Abele award in recognition of
his many contributions to Duke and the Pratt School of Engineering,” said
George Truskey, interim dean of the Pratt School of Engineering. “All of us
here at Pratt are proud to congratulate him on this outstanding achievement.”

Ohiri’s research focuses on using thin-film photodetectors and low-power
integrated circuits to design a molecular-scale network on-chip. If
successful, these networks will lead to the design of cheaper yet smaller and
faster microchips.

In addition to being the president of the Engineering Graduate Student
Council, Ohiri is involved in the Bouchet Society and the Black Graduate
Professional Association. He is also a recruiter for the National Society of
Black Engineers, which goes to regional and national conferences to recruit
students to intern or to go into graduate school at Duke.

“Receiving the Abele award is a tremendous honor,” said Ohiri. “I am even more
excited to complete my final EGSC term with a bang!”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

