

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Undergraduate Duke Engineering Design Teams Win National Prizes

October 7, 2020

Signature First-Year Design course inspires students to continue refining
their projects, even years later

At Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering, first-year students are assigned real-
life design challenges right from the start. And sometimes, they don’t want to
stop designing even when the official assignment ends.

This year, two teams that have continued to refine and improve those projects
will receive national honors in a National Institutes of Health-sponsored
design competition.

Two Duke First-Year Design Program teams from fall 2018 that tenaciously and
methodically kept working on their freshman-year design challenges in
subsequent semesters will be recognized for their submissions to the NIH’s 9th
annual Design by Biomedical Undergraduate Teams (DEBUT) challenge.

> The Duke Engineering teams were recognized for their submissions to the
> NIH’s 9th annual Design by Biomedical Undergraduate Teams (DEBUT) challenge

A team of Duke Engineering undergraduates won third place overall--and a
$10,000 prize--for their low-cost medical device to save the lives of infants
born with gastroschisis, a severe congenital disability.

A second Duke team received honorable mention, and $1,000, for a design to
improve the well-being of people with Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) and
other neurological conditions by making it easier to maintain oral hygiene.

The students took a course designed to follow-up on First-Year Design—EGR
102L: Design to Deliver, taught by Ann Saterbak, founder and director of the
Duke Engineering First-Year Design Program.

“EGR 102 gives students the opportunity to continue working on design projects
within a structured environment and with access to tools and materials needed
for refining and testing prototypes,” said Ann Saterbak, who also created and
teaches Design to Deliver. “When student teams continue to work on a project,
there is real potential to deliver that product to the client, and/or develop
the idea with an entrepreneurial mindset.”

DEBUT, considered the premier undergraduate design competition in biomedical
engineering, received 86 applications from 46 universities in 20
states—engaging a total of 410 students. Winning designs were selected
according to four criteria: the significance of the problem addressed, impact
on clinical care; the innovation of the design; and a working prototype.

“The winners of this year’s DEBUT challenge show how students with a fresh
perspective can develop innovative technologies that are low-cost and simple
to use and yet can solve complex health challenges,” said Bruce Tromberg,
director of the National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering
(NIBIB), in a release announcing the winners. “It is exciting to see the next
generation of biomedical engineers tackle these problems and how their unique
skillsets and perspectives can make medical technology better, faster and less
costly.”

The prizes will be awarded in an online ceremony at the annual Biomedical
Engineering Society (BMES) conference on Oct. 15, 2020.

## Gastroschisis Silo

The third-place winners designed a plastic bag with a semi-rigid opening,
called a silo, to help save infants who suffer from gastroschisis, where the
bowel develops outside the baby’s body.

The silo protects and contains the baby’s internal organs until they can be
reintroduced into the abdomen. While children in high-income countries have a
survival rate of more than 95 percent, babies in sub-Saharan Africa survive
less than 10 percent of the time. Without a dedicated silo, clinicians may be
forced to use an intravenous fluid bag or an examination glove.

The Duke team’s device is an affordable alternative that costs less than $5
and could help dramatically increase children’s survival from gastroschisis.

The project benefits from the robust relationship between Duke BME and the
Duke University Medical Center. Tamara Fitzgerald, a Duke pediatric surgeon,
is the team’s clinical faculty lead.

A Duke surgical resident and Master’s in Global Health student are assisting
with animal studies. Duke Engineering’s relationship with Makerere University
in Uganda has provided faculty, Julius Mugaga and Robert Sekitoleko, and local
clinical specialists for consultation.

Team members Arushi Biswas and Caroline Salzman presented the project at the
American College of Surgeons 2019 Clinical Congress. Other student team
members students are Patrick Wilson, Nolan Burroughs and Muthukurisil Arivoli.
All the students are members of the Duke Class of 2022. Saterbak is the
faculty member of the team.

“We’re all excited and hopeful about taking this project forward,” she said.
“Another exciting piece of news for our team is that our paper was accepted
into the Journal of Surgical Research and will be published in print in
November.”

The team, which received a $9,000 grant from the VentureWell BME-IDEA
International Student Grants Program in May, hopes to travel to Uganda in 2021
to work with their Makerere biomedical engineering colleagues on testing and
refining their design.

## SipClip

The student team receiving honorable mention was initially presented with a
problem by the Duke ALS Clinic. As ALS progresses, people develop bulbar
dysfunction and dysphagia (a weakening of the muscles around the mouth and
throat), making it difficult to swallow or spit.

Toothbrushing becomes difficult. Many people with late-stage ALS must use
ineffective toothbrushing methods or not brush their teeth at all. Low-grade
oral hygiene risks aspiration pneumonia and even death. The SipClip is a
plastic device that makes brushing easier.

The SipClip team is students Ashley Myers, Meena Gudapati, Anish Karpurapu,
Yoo Bin Shin, and Frank Marinello.

During their first year of working on the project, the team began initial
trials at the Duke ALS Clinic. In 2019 and this year, the team moved into the
customer discovery portion of the entrepreneurial path, interviewing doctors
at Duke Health to learn about the prevalence of bulbar dysfunction.

Their project was accepted into TREAT, the Center for Translation of
Rehabilitation Engineering Advances and Technology, in January. That
relationship provided access to experts understanding the regulatory aspects
of medical device creation.

The team was ready to start another round of testing in an assisted living
home in Duke’s hometown of Durham when COVID-19 arrived. The team pivoted to
potential licensee discovery and sought interviews with executives of large
medical device companies.

“We are confident that our device, SipClip, can help many people not only with
ALS, but other neurodegenerative diseases such as multiple sclerosis,
Parkinson’s and cerebral palsy,” Myers said.

Team SipClip filed for a provisional patent in June.

They are working with Duke’s FastTrack medical device development program and
plan to obtain approvals for eventual clinical testing. Their faculty mentors
are Saterbak and Kevin Caves, an assistive technology designer at Duke Health
and a Duke BME instructor.

Caves was honored in 2019 with Duke’s Betsy Alden Award for Outstanding
Service-Learning, in recognition of his BME capstone senior design course on
designing devices for people with disabilities He also teaches in the First-
Year Design course.

## More about

  * First-Year Design Program »
  * Signature Undergraduate Experience »
  * Duke Engineering Entrepreneurship (EngEn) »

## Related News

September 28, 2020

### Saterbak Launches New Journal Focused on Education in Biomedical
Engineering

April 09, 2019

### First Year, First Patent Pending

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

