

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# The Unseen, Drawn into Focus

March 14, 2023

The Duke Engineering Graduate Student Council’s annual photo contest continues
to surprise and delight

If you thought the annual “Envisioning the Invisible” photo contest would
eventually fizzle, running out of fresh subject matter, think again. This
year’s winning photos prove that the potential for further discovery is
vast—unlimited, even.

Unranked, here are this year’s judge’s choices and the winners of the popular
vote. Duke BME nearly swept the contest, contributing five of the six winners.

For several years, the Engineering Graduate Student Council’s annual photo
contest entries have been shown in the Fitzpatrick Center Atrium.

During 2023, these images are being showcased in a display adjacent to
Twinnie’s Cafe. The winning entries will also appear in rotation on the Sartor
Family Media wall in the entrance hall of the Wilkinson Building.

## Judges' Choices

### "Packed Particle Fairies"

#### Lindsay Riley | Post-doctoral Scholar, Segura Lab (BME)

> "Data is displayed like art in a museum.”
>
> LINDSaY RILEY

“Our lab creates therapeutic biomaterials made of microscopic packed particles
that allow cells to infiltrate into the interstitial void space between
particles. To study this invisible space that is hidden within the interior of
packed particles, I developed software that analyzes void space
characteristics using both real and simulated packed particles.

"This tranquil image showcases what we term ‘Packed Particle Fairies.’ Our
utilization of powerful resources for visualization allows us to create this
unique and beautiful representation of scientific data, where data is
displayed like art in a museum.”

### **"Glassfrogs Invisibility Cloak"**

#### Junjie Yao | Assistant Professor, BME

Clinging beneath leaves in the jungles of South America, glassfrogs (
_Hyalinobatrachium fleischmanni_ ) sleep soundly, hiding from predators with a
clever trick—they can hide 90 percent of their red blood cells in the liver
while sleeping. Photoacoustic microscopy images capture the circulating red
blood cells within the same glassfrog while asleep (left image, which renders
the frog transparent) and under anesthesia (right image, which breaks blood
storage and thus invisibility).

The color scheme shows the percent of hemoglobin bound with oxygen (red means
high oxygenation and green means low oxygenation).

### **"Sweet and Salty"**

#### Akash Singh | PhD student, Mitzi Lab (MEMS)

Sweetness and saltiness stem from the nature and composition of crystals.
Sugar is an organic compound called sucrose that crystallizes in a hexagonal
pyramid shape, and salt is an inorganic compound called sodium chloride that
crystallizes in a cubic shape.

Both are typically found in a bag of chips. Synthetic chemists like to take
inspiration from this duo to design a range of hybrid combinations of organic-
inorganic crystals with exotic properties, of which taste happens to be one.

* * *

## Popular Vote Winners

### **"INCEPTION (A love story)”**

#### Jessi Cruger | Manager, Sommer Lab (BME)

Light painter Jessi Cruger created this image in homage to the contributions
that living things make toward research. It began with a research image of a
Purkinje cell—a type of neuron—collected by postdoctoral genomics researcher
Emily Bowie.

Cruger traveled with the image all the way to Jekyll Island, Ga., to project
its essence into the cradling branches of a skeletal driftwood tree using a
tool called a Magilight. She used a blue flashlight to “paint” the tree and
took this long exposure photograph in real-time.

### **"BBB on a Chip"**

#### Paris Brown | PhD student, Varghese Lab (BME)

This organ-on-a-chip device uses microchannels (green fluorescent dye) to
mimic the brain’s vasculature and a brain chamber (pink fluorescent dye) to
mimic its functional tissue. These compartments are lined with cells that form
the blood-brain barrier (BBB), a specialized structure that separates the
brain and spinal cord from the rest of the body.

The blood-brain barrier protects the brain from harmful substances that might
be present in the bloodstream, while still allowing nutrients and other
essential molecules to pass through. This device enabled the study of the
blood-brain barrier under inflammatory conditions, leading to the discovery of
how omega-3 fatty acids can be used as a preventative measure.

See 2022's Winners

## Related News

March 15, 2022

### Cellular Filaments, Bacterial 'Easter Eggs,' Solar Panel Fungi Win 2022
Envisioning the Invisible Image Contest

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

