

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# “Virtual Pillars” Separate and Sort Blood-Based Nanoparticles

December 2, 2022 | By Ken Kingery

Sorting biological nanoparticles 500 times thinner than a human hair could
improve a wide variety of diagnostics and treatments

Engineers at Duke University have developed a device that uses sound waves to
separate and sort the tiniest particles found in blood in a matter of minutes.
The technology is based on a concept called “virtual pillars” and could be a
boon to both scientific research and medical applications.

Tiny biological nanoparticles called “small extracellular vesicles” (sEVs) are
released from every type of cell in the body and are believed to play a large
role in cell-to-cell communication and disease transmission. The new
technology, dubbed Acoustic Nanoscale Separation via Wave-pillar Excitation
Resonance, or ANSWER for short, not only pulls these nanoparticles from
biofluids in under 10 minutes, it also sorts them into size categories
believed to have distinct biological roles.

The results appeared online November 23 in the journal Science Advances.

“These nanoparticles have significant potential in medical diagnosis and
treatment, but the current technologies for separating and sorting them take
several hours or days, are inconsistent, produce low yield or purity, suffer
from contamination and sometimes damage the nanoparticles,” said Tony Jun
Huang, the William Bevan Distinguished Professor of Mechanical Engineering and
Materials Science at Duke.

> “We want to make extracting and sorting high-quality sEVs as simple as
> pushing a button and getting the desired samples faster than it takes to
> take a shower."
>
> tony jun huang

“We want to make extracting and sorting high-quality sEVs as simple as pushing
a button and getting the desired samples faster than it takes to take a
shower,” Huang said.

Recent research indicates that sEVs are comprised of several subgroups with
distinct sizes (e.g., smaller than 50 nanometers, between 60 and 80
nanometers, and between 90 and 150 nanometers). Each size is believed to have
different biological properties.

The recent discovery of sEV subpopulations has excited researchers because of
their potential to revolutionize the field of non-invasive diagnostics, such
as the early detection of cancer and Alzheimer’s disease. But the particles
haven’t found their way into clinical settings yet.

Huang said this is largely due to the difficulties associated with separating
and isolating these nano-sized sEV subpopulations. To meet this challenge,
Huang, his doctoral student Jinxin Zhang, and collaborators at UCLA, Harvard,
and Magee-Womens Research Institute, developed the ANSWER platform.

The device uses a single pair of transducers to generate a standing sound wave
that envelops a narrow, enclosed channel filled with fluid. This sound wave
“leaks” into the liquid center through the channel walls and interacts with
the original standing sound wave. With careful design of the wall thickness,
channel size and sound frequency, this interaction creates a resonance that
forms “virtual pillars” along the center of the channel.

Each of these virtual pillars is essentially a half-egg-shaped region of high
pressure. As particles attempt to cross over the pillars, they get pushed
toward the edges of the channel. And the bigger the particles, the bigger the
push. By tuning the series of virtual pillars to create nuanced forces on the
traveling nanoparticles, the researchers can precisely sort them by size into
a variety of groups determined by the needs of the experiments at hand.

> “The ANSWER EV fractionation technology is the most advanced capability for
> precise EV fractionation, and it will significantly impact the horizon of EV
> diagnostics, prognostics and liquid biopsy."
>
> david wong

“The ANSWER EV fractionation technology is the most advanced capability for
precise EV fractionation, and it will significantly impact the horizon of EV
diagnostics, prognostics and liquid biopsy,” said David Wong, director for
UCLA Center for Oral/Head & Neck Oncology Research.

In the new paper, the researchers demonstrate that their ANSWER platform can
successfully sort sEVs into three subgroups with 96% accuracy for
nanoparticles on the larger end of the spectrum and 80% accuracy for the
smallest. They also show flexibility in their system, adjusting the number of
groupings and ranges of sizes with simple updates to the sound wave
parameters. Each of the experiments only took 10 minutes to complete, whereas
other methods such as ultra-centrifugation can take several hours or days.

“Due to its contact-free nature, ANSWER offers a biocompatible approach for
the separation of biological nanoparticles.” Zhang said. “Unlike mechanical
filtration methods, which have fixed separation cutoff diameters, ANSWER
offers a tunable approach to nanoscale separation, and the cutoff diameter can
be precisely modified by varying the input acoustic power.”

Moving forward, the researchers will continue improving the ANSWER technology
so that it can be efficient in purifying other biologically relevant
nanoparticles such as viruses, antibodies and proteins.

This research was supported by the National Institutes of Health (UH3TR002978,
R01HD103727, U18TR003778, R01GM132603, R01GM143439 R01GM135486, R01GM144417,
R44AG063643) and the National Science Foundation (CMMI-2104295, CMMI-2104526).

CITATION: “A Solution to the Biophysical Fractionation of Extracellular
Vesicles: Acoustic Nanoscale Separation via Wave-pillar Excitation Resonance
(ANSWER),” Jinxin Zhang, Chuyi Chen, Ryan Becker, Joseph Rufo, Shujie Yang,
John Mai, Peiran Zhang, Yuyang Gu, Zeyu Wang, Zhehan Ma, Jianping Xia, Nanjing
Hao, Zhenhua Tian, David T. W. Wong, Yoel Sadovsky, Luke P. Lee, and Tony Jun
Huang. Science Advances, Nov. 23, 2022. DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.ade0640

https://www.science.org/doi/10.1126/sciadv.ade0640

# # #

## Related News

December 18, 2020

### Sound Waves Spin Droplets to Concentrate, Separate Nanoparticles

July 03, 2018

### Sound Waves Could Provide 'Liquid Biopsies'

September 18, 2017

### Sound Waves Separate Biological Nanoparticles for 'Liquid Biopsies'

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

