

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Waiting to Exhale

June 1, 2015 | By Ken Kingery

A new Duke ECE startup accelerator called DEEP SEA is funding a PhD graduate’s
idea to transform how blood glucose is monitored

A startup company based on technology invented at Duke University is working
to make blood glucose measurement as easy as exhalation—and end the need to
draw blood.

The idea is the brainchild of Ryan McCormick, a recent PhD graduate from
Duke’s Department of Computer and Electrical Engineering (ECE), who spent the
past five years working on the underlying technology as his thesis.

Working in the laboratory of Adrienne Stiff-Roberts, an associate professor in
ECE, McCormick developed an organic deposition technique called RIR-MAPLE that
can produce a thin film with a rough surface that acts as a sort of Velcro for
volatile organic compounds. Although his initial focus was on optoelectronic
applications like organic LEDs or solar cells, McCormick quickly realized that
his innovation would be well-suited for picking out organic molecules from
gases.

“It’s a broad-based method that could be used in many different areas, but the
first application we’ve chosen to pursue is monitoring glucose levels for
people with Type 1 diabetes,” said McCormick, who came to Duke in 2009 after
working for two companies—one a small business and another a startup.
“Ultimately, we’d like to expand our work to a platform technology that could
be used for multiple pathologies.”

> "If a student is finishing a thesis and thinks they have a great idea for a
> business, they’re kind of stuck between trying to launch a startup and
> trying to pay rent. We wanted to build a program that lets them focus on
> their startup so that instead of trying to impress a venture capitalist with
> an idea, they could approach them with an idea, a prototype and a business
> plan.”

When the human body is incapable of creating insulin, it turns to several
different processes to control glucose levels. One of these reactions breaks
down fats in the body, creating acetone. While acetone levels and glucose
aren’t directly tied, McCormick believes he can use it with a handful of other
biomolecular markers to make a direct correlation between the chemical
composition of a person’s breath and the amount of glucose in their
bloodstream.

It is an intriguing idea that has gained support from the ECE department
through the Duke Engineering Entrepreneurial Pipelines Startup Entry
Accelerator—or DEEP SEA for short. Launched this year, DEEP SEA is a startup
competition that provides up to $75,000 in funding along with mentoring and
connections to the entrepreneurial community. The team is expected to create a
prototype of their concept and develop a business plan that prepares them for
the next stage of investment. The brainchild of Andrew Hilton, assistant
professor of the practice and managing director of graduate studies for ECE,
Chris Dwyer, associate professor of ECE and Jeff Glass, professor of ECE and
Hogg Family Director of Engineering Management & Entrepreneurship, the only
requirement is that the team must include at least one ECE graduate student.

“The ECE department prides itself on fostering entrepreneurship,” said Hilton.
“If a student is finishing a thesis and thinks they have a great idea for a
business, they’re kind of stuck between trying to launch a startup and trying
to pay rent. We wanted to build a program that lets them focus on their
startup so that instead of trying to impress a venture capitalist with an
idea, they could approach them with an idea, a prototype and a business plan.”

DEEP SEA puts recent graduates with a great idea together with two faculty
mentors—one for technology and one for business. McCormick’s technology mentor
is his PhD advisor, Adrienne Stiff-Roberts. His business mentor is Kevin
Wright, an adjunct associate professor in Duke’s Master of Engineering
Management Program, which provides early-career engineers a tech-savvy
alternative to an MBA.

McCormick has also received business insight from the National Science
Foundation’s Innovation Corps program, which he describes as a “business boot
camp for engineers.” During the three-month program, participants present
weekly updates on developing a business plan by trying to find customers
before starting the business.

The insights gained were invaluable to McCormick and his team, who thought
that pricking the finger was the biggest problem for diabetics monitoring
their glucose levels.

“But that’s not what we found at all,” said McCormick. “Everyone is used to
pricking their fingers. It turns out that different groups have different
needs. For example, adults want something seamless that integrates with their
smartphones while kids want something they can do on the sly to avoid having
to take out cumbersome kits in class.”

McCormick and his team are currently working out exactly which molecules they
need to monitor to get an accurate glucose reading from a person’s breath.
Depending on how few they can focus on, their sensor could be as small as a
single square centimeter. At that size, the sensor could be integrated into a
small Bluetooth-capable device with its own app.

“If we could make something similar to an asthma inhaler that you simply blow
into and it delivers your glucose levels to your phone, we think we could find
a big market for that,” said McCormick.

Learn more about DEEP SEA at ece.duke.edu/phd/deep-sea

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

