

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Seeing Through Walls of Unknown Materials

December 6, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

Removing symmetrical distortions allows successful scans with no prior
knowledge of a wall’s material

Researchers at Duke University have devised a way to see through walls using a
narrow band of microwave frequencies without any advance knowledge of what the
walls are made out of. Besides having obvious applications in the realm of
security, the approach could lead to inexpensive devices to help construction
workers easily locate conduits, pipes and wires.

The study was published in the journal Optica on Dec. 5, 2017.

“Most technologies that can see through walls use a broad range of
frequencies, which makes them expensive,” said Daniel Marks, associate
research professor of electrical and computer engineering at Duke. “They also
don’t have very good resolution. So while they might be fine for seeing a
person moving on the other side of a wall, they’re terrible for finding thin
conduits or wires.”

Current approaches also typically rely on knowing what material the wall is
made out of before trying to see through it. This allows the software to
predict how the wall will affect the scanning waves so that it can separate
the echoes and distortions from the solid objects being sought.

In the new paper, Marks and his colleagues David R. Smith, the James B. Duke
Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, and Okan Yurduseven, a
postdoctoral researcher in electrical and computer engineering at Duke, take
advantage of a wall’s symmetry instead.

Because walls are generally flat and uniform in all directions, they distort
waves in a symmetrical fashion. The newly described technology uses this
symmetry to its advantage.

“We wrote an algorithm that separates the data into parts—one that shows
circular symmetry and another that doesn’t,” explained Yurduseven. “The data
that doesn’t have any symmetry is what we’re trying to see.”

The technique uses only a single frequency to scan because it cuts down on the
number of interference patterns created by the wall and single-frequency
emitters are much less expensive than broadband emitters. Sticking to a narrow
range also means that a future device would be easier to clear with the
Federal Communications Commission (FCC), as it would be easy to avoid
interfering with microwave frequencies dedicated to other technologies, such
as Wifi, cellular phone service and Bluetooth.

The researchers built a prototype device to see how well it would work. In
their laboratory, they constructed a couple of different kinds of walls and
then placed objects behind them that a worker might want to find, like studs,
electrical conduits, wires and junction boxes.

Looking at the raw data after scanning through gypsum plasterboard, it’s
difficult to make out anything other than a metal junction box, which is 4
inches wide and 2 inches thick. But after analyzing the data and removing the
symmetrical patterns, the pictures clear considerably, and each individual
component is easily recognized.

“We envision combining this technique with a machine vision system that
someone could move over a wall to see what’s inside,” said Marks. “We think
the technology has the price point and sensitivity to make an impact on the
market.”

This work was supported by the Air Force Office of Scientific Research
(FA9550-12-1-0491).

“A sparse blind deconvolution method for imaging through layered media.”
Daniel L. Marks, Okan Yurduseven, David R. Smith. Optica, 2017. DOI:
10.1364/optica.4.001514

# # #

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

