

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Electromagnetic Water Cloak Eliminates Drag and Wake

December 11, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

Detailed calculations show water cloaks are feasible with today's technology

Researchers have developed a water cloaking concept based on electromagnetic
forces that could eliminate an object’s wake, greatly reducing its drag while
simultaneously helping it avoid detection.

The idea originated at Duke University in 2011 when researchers outlined the
general concept. By matching the acceleration of the surrounding water to an
object’s movement, it would theoretically be possible to greatly increase its
propulsion efficiency while leaving the surrounding sea undisturbed. The
theory was an extension of the group’s pioneering work in metamaterials, where
a material’s structure, rather than its chemistry, creates desired properties.

Six years later, Yaroslav Urzhumov, adjunct assistant professor of electrical
and computer engineering at Duke, has updated the theory by detailing a
potential approach. But rather than using a complex system of very small pumps
as originally speculated, Urzhumov is turning to electromagnetic fields and
the dense concentration of charged particles found in saltwater.

The study appears online in the journal Physical Review E on December 7, 2017.

“The original idea was so big that it enticed colleagues at the Naval Undersea
Warfare Center to help us pursue it, even though they were incredibly
skeptical,” said Urzhumov, who was among the researchers who worked on the
original 2011 paper. “Since then, we have identified a path to materializing
this seemingly impossible proposal.”

The crux of the issue being addressed is that water is a relatively viscous
liquid that, when moved, likes to pull its surroundings along for the ride
through shear forces. A fish feels much heavier being pulled through the water
than lifted through open air because of all the water dragged along with it.

Besides essentially pulling extra water, drag can also be increased by how
water flows around an object. A hydrodynamic object with fluid flowing
smoothly along its surface creates much less drag than a blocky object that
creates a mess of chaotic, turbulent flows in its wake.

The solution to these issues is to move the water out of the way. By
accelerating the water around the object to match its speed, shear forces and
turbulent flows can both be avoided.

“There are many ways to reduce wake and drag, like surrounding an object with
low-friction bubbles, which is actually done with some naval torpedoes,” said
Urzhumov. “But there’s only so much you can do if you’re just applying forces
at the surface. This cloaking idea opens a new dimension to create forces
around an underwater vessel or object, which is absolutely required to achieve
full wake cancellation.”

Urzhumov originally envisioned a sort of truss-like frame enveloping an object
with thin structures and tiny pumps to accelerate its flow as it passed
through. But as time went by, he decided a more practical approach would be to
use “magnetohydrodynamic” forces.

When a charged particle travels through an electromagnetic field, the field
creates a force on the particle. Because ocean water is chock full of ions
like sodium, potassium and magnesium, there are a lot of charged particles to
push. The idea isn’t as crazy as it may sound—Japan built a prototype
passenger ship in 1991 called the Yamato 1 using these forces as a means of
propulsion, but found the approach was not more efficient than traditional
propellers.

In the new paper, Urzhumov and his graduate student, Dean Culver, use fluid
dynamics simulations to show how a water cloak might be achieved using this
approach. By controlling the velocity and direction of the water surrounding a
moving object, the simulations show such a system can match the water’s
movement within the cloak to that of the surrounding sea.

This would make it appear that the water inside the cloak is completely
stagnant in relation to the water outside of the cloak, eliminating the drag
and wake. Of course, practical implementations aren’t perfect, so some drag
and wake would remain in any realization of the device.

While the simulations used a cloaking shell half the width of the object
itself, the calculations show the shell could theoretically be as thin as you
wanted it to be. Another important result was that the forces inside the shell
would not have to change directions as the object sped up, they would only
need more power.

“That is one of the major achievements of this paper,” said Urzhumov. “If you
don’t have to adjust the distribution of forces, you don’t need any electronic
switches or other means of dynamic control. You can set the structure with a
specific configuration and simply crank up the current as the object speeds
up.”

Urzhumov says that for an actual ship or submarine to ever use such a device,
it would need a nuclear reactor to power it, given the enormous energy
requirements to cloak an object of that size. That does not mean, however,
that a smaller diesel vessel could not power a smaller cloaking device to
shield potentially vulnerable protrusions from detection.

Urzhumov also says that his theories and calculations have many potential
applications outside of the ocean. Similar designs could be used to create a
distributed ion propulsion system for spacecraft or to suppress plasma
instabilities in prototypes for thermonuclear fusion reactors.

“I believe these ideas are going to flourish in several of these fields,” said
Urzhumov. “It is a very exciting time.”

This research was supported by the Office of Naval Research through the Naval
Undersea Research Program (N00014-13-1-0743) and the Multidisciplinary
University Research Initiative (MURI) (N00014-13-1-0631).

“Forced Underwater Laminar Flows with Active Magnetohydrodynamic
Metamaterials.” Dean Culver and Yaroslav Urzhumov. Physical Review E, 2017.
DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevE.96.063107

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

