

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# A Warm Welcome for International Students Arriving on Campus

November 14, 2017 | by Pablo Mino and Laura Brinn

Although they have different needs, both undergraduate and graduate students
receive support to transition from their home countries to their lives as Duke
students

_FromDuke Today  
_

Settling in with a roommate and adjusting to a new campus and city are just a
couple of the hurdles new students face at the beginning of the academic year.
International students usually add to that list opening a bank account,
acquiring a phone line and managing immigration-related processes before even
beginning to think about finding the required textbooks for their classes.

A number of Duke programs and offices work every year to help new
international students adjust to American academic norms as well as life at
Duke and in Durham. Duke's International House is a central resource for all
Duke students, and hosts an annual series of orientation events specifically
for international students. The events help students meet classmates, become
acquainted with campus, and also address practical needs like setting up bank
accounts and local phone numbers. This year, undergraduate students' parents
also had the chance to be part of some of the activities and learn how their
sons and daughters are being supported while they are at Duke.

"This year, we had family members of international undergraduates meet in the
Student Wellness Center for the first day of their orientation," said Lisa
Giragosian, director of Duke's International House. "There they had the
opportunity to tour the new building as well as interact with many of the
staff based there – from the Student Health to the CAPS to DuWell. This
experience was very reassuring to parents."

The welcome activities supplement other events that International House
organizes throughout the year, ranging from weekly informal gatherings that
bring together international students, scholars, exchange students and their
spouses to conversation clubs in Spanish, English and Chinese. The
International House Orientation Peer (IHOP) program pairs returning students
with new students to help them make a smooth transition to life at Duke. This
service is offered to undergraduate and graduate international students.

## ENGINEERING SUCCESS FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS

Although the academic year traditionally begins in August, Bridget Fletcher,
associate director of program development for professional master's programs
at the Pratt School of Engineering, begins working with newly admitted
students in early April, using assessments of their English-language skills
via Skype interviews to determine whether students would benefit from
additional language training.

> "Duke is extremely inclusive and welcoming of international students.
> Bridget's visit in the summer was our first real interaction with Duke.
> Bridget and her colleague spoke about the courses in general and more
> importantly ensured us how valuable the international students are as a part
> of the Duke community. They acknowledged our concerns regarding the current
> situation in the US, and reinforced that Duke stands by its international
> students."

This is just the beginning of Pratt's efforts to help international students
feel at home, which also include weekly conversational and cultural
acclimations classes as well as regular seminars and workshops to help
students learn about and adjust to American cultural and academic norms. The
workshops also encourage students to share elements of their own cultures with
fellow students. "The weekly conversational and cultural acclimations courses
are especially useful. I think it really helps the students to feel like, at
least once a week, they have a place that they can go and they can ask all of
the questions that they have accumulated during the week," said Fletcher.

But Fletcher's work is not limited to Durham. Each year, she and a colleague
travel to China and India -- the countries the majority of Pratt's
international students come from -- to meet incoming students and connect them
with each other and program alumni, and to identify and address students'
questions and concerns about their arrival and adjustment to being in the
United States.

"Duke is extremely inclusive and welcoming of international students.
Bridget's visit in the summer was our first real interaction with Duke.
Bridget and her colleague spoke about the courses in general and more
importantly ensured us how valuable the international students are as a part
of the Duke community. They acknowledged our concerns regarding the current
situation in the US, and reinforced that Duke stands by its international
students," said Angad Ozarkar, who comes from India and is in the Master in
Engineering Management program.

## PROFESSIONAL AND PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT

The Graduate School offers seminars and workshops specifically designed for
international graduate students. Recent workshops have included a panel
discussion with international STEM faculty living in the U.S., as well as
sessions focused on preparing for roles in corporate America, and presenting
research within the U.S. industry setting.

Each semester more than 300 graduate students also take courses through the
Graduate School's English for International Students (EIE) program. These
courses help students strengthen their oral and written communications and
academic presentation skills, and aid them in preparing to teach in the
American academic environment.

The Fuqua School of Business has been traditionally recognized for its vibrant
community of international students. Throughout the years, the school has
worked on a series of programs to make this group of students welcome at Duke.

"Our Culture and Language Immersion program and the International Student
Bootcamp provide a bit of an on-ramp to studying in the U.S. and we allow
international students a little time to acclimate before being fully immersed
in our academic program," said Russ Morgan, senior associate dean for full-
time programs, noting that Fuqua honors its international students'
backgrounds throughout the year.

"Fuqua strongly values difference and meaningfully feels we have much to learn
from each other. We have many clubs run by students that celebrate various
regions of the world and help educate our community about the food,
traditions, and other aspects of various countries and regions," added Morgan

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

