

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# A Window into the Hidden World of Colons

December 11, 2019 | By Ken Kingery

Combining a skin-level glass window with a gut-stabilizing magnet, researchers
get a view into the colon of a live animal

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have developed a system that allows
for real-time observations of individual cells in the colon of a living mouse.

Researchers expect the procedure to allow new investigations into the
digestive system’s microbiome as well as the causes of diseases such as
inflammatory bowel disease and colon cancer and their treatments.

The procedure described online on December 11 in Nature Communications
involves surgically implanting a transparent window into a mouse’s abdominal
skin above the colon. Similar setups are already being used to allow live
looks into the detailed inner workings of the brain, spinal cord, liver, lungs
and other organs. Imaging a live colon, however, is a slipperier proposition.

“A brain doesn’t move around a lot, but the colon does, which makes it
difficult to get detailed images down to a single cell,” said Xiling Shen, the
Hawkins Family Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering at Duke
University. “We’ve developed a magnetic system that is strong enough to
stabilize the colon in place during imaging to obtain this level of
resolution, but can quickly be turned off to allow the colon to move freely.”

Immobilizing the colon for imaging is a tricky task for traditional methods
such as glue or stitches. At best they can cause inflammation that would ruin
most experiments. At worst they can cause obstructions, which can quickly kill
the mouse being studied.

To skirt this issue, Shen developed a magnetic device that looks much like a
tiny metal nasal strip and can be safely attached to the colon. A magnetic
field snaps the colon into place and keeps it stable during imaging, but once
turned off, leaves the colon free to move and function as normal.

A vital organ that houses much of the digestive system’s microbiome, the colon
can be afflicted by diseases such as inflammatory bowel disease, functional
gastrointestinal disorders and cancer. It also plays a key role in regulating
the immune system, and can communicate directly with the brain through sacral
nerves.

“There is a great need to better understand the colon, because it can suffer
from so many diseases and plays so many roles with significant health
implications,” Shen said.

In the study, Shen and his colleagues conducted several proof-of-principle
experiments that provide starting points for future lines of research.

The researchers first colonized a living mouse colon with _E. coli_ bacteria,
derived from Crohn’s disease patients, that had been tagged with fluorescent
proteins. The researchers then showed they could track the migration, growth
and decline of the bacteria for more than three days. This ability could help
researchers understand not only how antagonistic bacteria afflict the colon,
Shen says, but the positive roles probiotics can play and which strains can
best help people with gastrointestinal disorders.

In the next experiment, mice were bred with several types of fluorescent
immune cells. The researchers then induced inflammation in the colon and
carefully watched the activation of these immune cells. Shen says, this
approach could be used with various types of immune cells and diseases to gain
a better understanding of how the immune system responds to challenges.

Shen and his colleagues then showed that they could tag and track colon
epithelial stem cells associated with colorectal cancer throughout radiation
treatment. They also demonstrated that they could watch nerves throughout the
colon respond to sacral nerve stimulation, an emerging therapy for treating
motility and immune disorders such as functional gastrointestinal disorders
and irritable bowel disorder.

“While we know electrically stimulating the sacral nerves can alleviate the
symptoms of these gastrointestinal disorders, we currently have no idea why or
any way to optimize these treatments,” Shen said. “Being able to see how the
colon’s neurons respond to different waveforms, frequencies and amplitudes of
stimulation will be invaluable in making this approach a better option for
more patients.”

This work was supported by National Institutes of Health (R35GM122465,
OT2OD023849), the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (N66001-15-2-4059)
and the National Cancer Institutes (R35CA197616).

“An Intravital Window to Image the Colon in Real Time,” Nikolai Rakhilin,
Aliesha Garrett, Chi-Yong Eom, Katherine Ramos C., David M. Small, Andrea R.
Daniel, Melanie M. Kaelberer, Menansili A. Mejooli, Qiang Huang, Shengli Ding,
David G. Kirsch, Diego V. Bohórquez, Nozomi Nishimura, Bradley B. Barth, and
Xiling Shen. Nature Communications, 2019. DOI: 10.1038/s41467-019-13699-w

# # #

## Related News

June 07, 2016

### A Window to the Gut's Brain

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

