

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Women's Health: It's Personal for Nimmi Ramanujam

January 24, 2020

Through her roles as both a mentor and engineer, Nimmi Ramanujam gauges
success by determining how she can change the status quo and push the
boundaries of biomedical engineering

_The following text is a condensed version of the fullprofile, which appears
on the _Magnify _website._

The night before she was scheduled to speak to more than a hundred Duke
students, colleagues and at least one Nobel laureate, Nirmala ‘Nimmi’
Ramanujam got cold feet.

She had given countless talks before, many about the pocket colposcope, a
device her team invented to bring life-saving access to cervical cancer
screening to underserved regions. But this talk would be different. Ramanujam,
the Robert W. Carr, Jr. Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering and
a professor of Pharmacology and Cancer Biology in the School of Medicine, was
supposed to share her personal story as part of a special event highlighting
the role of immigrants in the research enterprise.

In the days leading up to her talk, she toyed with slides about her childhood
in Malaysia, her Southeast Asian heritage, and the parallels between her life
and that of the famous mathematician Srinivasa Ramanujan, who not only shared
her last name but also belonged to the same caste of Brahmins, the upper
echelon of Indian society inhabited by scholars and priests.

“I created a deck of slides that was all about me, but I couldn’t present it,”
she said.

While the other six scientists presenting that day told the story of their
lives, Ramanujam talked about her students, many of whom were immigrants
themselves. “I had to talk about something orthogonal, because I couldn’t
share my journey,” she said. “It’s like I made it up the elevator, and I
wasn’t sure I wanted to take anyone back down the elevator with me.”

## A view from the top

Despite being raised at the top of Hindu society, Ramanujam’s prospects were
limited by her gender. She had to cover her arms and plait her thick dark
hair. She couldn’t leave her bedroom or touch elderly family members when she
got her menstrual period. And she was constantly told that she wasn’t as smart
as her brothers.

“I grew up with this whole idea that I didn't have anything meaningful to
say,” she recalls. “People told me I wasn’t very good at academics. But I knew
I was good at music, so I focused on that.” She became so good at playing the
veena, a South Indian instrument resembling the sitar, that she often
performed on the radio with her mother, a talented musician.

As she came of age, her father began plotting arranged marriages. Her mother,
a closet intellectual who had never been able to pursue any interests outside
the arts, suggested their daughter get a higher education instead. When
Ramanujam was just 16, they sent her to the U.S., where she went to the
University of Texas at Austin, to pursue a degree in engineering, just as her
brothers had.

“It was traumatic to come from that place of complete oppression, to this
place where the first things you see are McDonald's and alcohol, and you're a
vegetarian who’s never had a drink before in your life,” she recalled. “But
then there were elements that I could connect with immediately, like music. It
was something universal, and relatable.”

At the time, the airwaves were dominated by pop stars like Blondie, Pat
Benatar, and Madonna, who sang of women’s empowerment but also embodied the
excesses of the late 1980s. Ramanujam struggled to fit in to her new world,
and her grades suffered. “I didn’t understand anything,” she said. “I was
really a poor student – and I hated engineering.”

Then, just as Ramanujam was gaining her footing toward the latter part of
college, she was diagnosed with carcinoma in situ in her cervix, a breast
lump, and an ovarian cyst, all in quick succession.

She was more fascinated than frightened by the experience – it helped to be a
naïve teenager. “It was the first time in my life that I knew what it was like
to have my reproductive health scrutinized and intervened upon.”

She realized technology could be personal, and that a career in health care
could give greater meaning to her engineering studies. Though her college
advisor scoffed that her grades weren’t good enough for her to get into
graduate school, she kept showing up at his office hours to plead her case,
and eventually convinced him to make a case for her.

Twenty-five years later, as the Robert W. Carr, Jr. distinguished professor at
Duke University, in the second highest ranked biomedical engineering program
in the U.S., Ramanujam still has an aversion to grades. She doesn’t give exams
in her classes and relies more on interviews than transcripts when hiring
students into her program. She doesn’t even pay attention to the impact factor
of the journals she publishes in, instead gauging success by how much she is
able to change the status quo through the lives of those she is affecting.

“Nimmi always talks about impact,” said Jenna Mueller, who has worked with
Ramanujam for the last ten years as a Ph.D. student and now as a postdoctoral
associate.

“She has a bird’s-eye view, and then she can zoom in to the tiniest detail and
know what is happening with the science. I think her vision is unparalleled in
how she pushes the boundaries of what biomedical engineering is.”

_Read the full article onMagnify, a new publication from Duke University's
School of Medicine. _

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

