

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Xilis Raises $70 Million Series A Financing to Advance Diagnostic and Drug
Discovery

July 12, 2021

The financing will also support a development platform leveraging proprietary
MicroOrganoSphere™ technology

This story was originally posted on the Duke Office of Translation &
Commercialization site.

Xilis, Inc., a pioneering company using its MicroOrganoSphere (MOS) technology
to guide precision therapy for cancer patients and accelerate drug discovery
and development, today announced the close of a $70 million Series A
financing. The round was led by Mubadala Capital, joined by new investors GV
(formerly Google Ventures), LSP (one of Europe’s largest healthcare investment
firms), Catalio Ventures, Duke Endowment, and Duke Angel Network. Current
investors Felicis Ventures, Two Sigma Ventures, Pear VC, KdT Ventures, and
Alix Ventures also participated.

Founded in 2019 by Dr. Xiling Shen, Dr.David Hsu, and Dr. Hans Clevers, Xilis
is based on decades of biomedical, oncology, and stem cell research by its
three co-founders. Dr. Clevers, a Breakthrough Prize winner, is the inventor
and pioneer of the organoid technology. Dr. Shen and Dr. Hsu are accomplished
engineering and medical professors at Duke University and experts in precision
medicine. They have developed the scalable MOS technology to analyze patients’
own tumors in their native microenvironment – a breakthrough achievement.

“Our vision is to transform cancer care in diagnostics and reshape drug
development by providing a technology for rapid therapeutic profiling,” said
Xiling Shen, PhD, Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Xilis. “The support
provided by these world-class investors is an important milestone for our
journey to transform cancer care and dramatically improve patient survival by
enabling personalized precision oncology and bringing transformative medicines
to patients faster and with higher success rates,” added Dr. Shen.

Hans Clevers, MD, PhD, Scientific Co-Founder and Principal Investigator at the
Hubrecht Institute, Netherlands, stated, “Since my lab invented organoids a
dozen years ago, we provided proof-of-concept for many applications yet the
technology remained slow, complex, and expensive. Dr. Shen and Dr. Hsu’s
invention of the MOS technology has torn down those hurdles and will
accelerate its use both in the clinic and for drug discovery and development.”

Click here to read the full story on the OTC site.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

