

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Xin Li: Pushing Integrated Circuits to New Heights and New Frontiers

October 7, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

New faculty member Xin Li works on advanced integrated circuit design and
optimization while pushing the technology into new applications

Xin Li will join the faculty of the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering at Duke University starting January 1, 2017. With a history of
innovation in integrated circuit design and applications, and multiple
experiences with tech startup companies, Li will split his time between Duke’s
main campus and Duke Kunshan University (DKU).

On campus in Durham, Li will look to forge collaborations through Duke’s many
strengths in areas such as microchip architecture and testing, brain-machine
interfaces, and self-driving cars. While at DKU, Li will lead a new program in
applied physical science and engineering on campus while seeking to take
advantage of China’s many unique resources and markets.

“I’m very excited about all of the opportunities this new position will open
up,” said Li, who comes to Duke from Carnegie Mellon University, where he
received his PhD in 2005 and joined the faculty in 2007 after commercializing
his doctoral research through a startup called Xigmix Inc. “Duke has a
comprehensive profile from its medical school to its programs in the social
sciences, and I believe global interdisciplinary collaborations are what’s
needed to make large impacts in the world.”

Li started his career creating ways to model and optimize integrated
circuits—the technology responsible for the ever-smaller microchips the world
has grown accustomed to. His work focused on creating statistical methods to
model new designs to minimize testing and characterization costs while
maximizing performance increases.

After his startup company was acquired by Extreme DA in 2007—which was further
acquired by Synopsis in 2011—Li returned to Carnegie Mellon to continue his
research enterprises. But rather than focusing entirely on improving the
technology, Li began looking for ways to apply it to immediate problems around
the globe.

In one arena, Li is working to optimize technology for analyzing brain waves
to tease out what a person is thinking. With enough improvement, these brain-
machine interfaces could help paralyzed patients move their arms and legs
again. It may sound like science fiction, but the technology is already well
on its way to this end.

In another research path, Li is working toward “smart manufacturing” systems
with a wide range of integrated sensors to let operators know of any
issues—and their cause—as early as possible. He’s also working on the hot
topic of self-driving cars through the lens of data analysis. The technology
to control a car, he says, is there. It’s a matter of making processing and
reaction times fast enough while also keeping resources and costs down as much
as possible, which takes innovation in hardware and computer architecture.

“These are all areas of strength for Duke as well,” says Li. “Not only does
Duke have a top medical school, it already has an entire organization
dedicated to data analysis in the Information Initiative at Duke. I definitely
believe my research goals align very well, and I believe this work will lead
to big changes that will affect industry and human life.”

In China, Li says he hopes to take advantage of many emerging application
areas. One is in early childhood education, where Chinese parents have shown a
willingness to invest to help their children get an edge. For example, Li is
working on a device to collect and analyze data about a child’s language
environment to provide information about how well they are progressing and how
rich the words are that they’re surrounded by every day.

Li hopes to build bridges between the two Duke campuses while building an
innovative program in both education and research using his background in data
analytics and integrated circuits at DKU. And, he believes the new campus will
open up new opportunities to collaborate with companies based in China.

“A lot of American companies have offices in China,” said Li, who also has a
startup in Shanghai focused on data analysis for so-called smart buildings.
“And because the cost of labor in China is on the rise, as are real estate
prices, satellite offices in China are starting to have to do more high-end
work to justify the costs, including R&D. This opens the door for
collaborations on both student training and research development with local
universities, and I believe Duke is one of the most competitive options for
these companies to work with.

“That’s the reason I moved to Duke,” continued Li. “I see all of these huge
opportunities, both in America and in China. The ability to work in both
spaces will allow me to forge global interdisciplinary collaborations, which
is very important because engineering alone is not enough to change the
world.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

