

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Accelerating Self-Driving Car Innovation

February 26, 2018 | By Bradley Allf

Xin Li is improving self-driving cars by training them with computer
simulations while integrating new technology

On a Monday morning in January of this year a man got into his Tesla sedan,
pulled onto a highway outside of Los Angeles, and engaged the vehicle’s semi-
autonomous “Autopilot” mode. The car juggled inputs from 8 cameras, 12
ultrasonic sensors and one radar to navigate the highway, avoiding other
vehicles and staying within the dotted lines. Then, it plowed straight into
the back of a stopped firetruck.

Autonomous vehicle technology is often praised for its capacity to eventually
make the roads safer—and for good reason. But situations like that described
above demonstrate that even today’s _semi_ -autonomous vehicles have some
serious hitches to work out. Fortunately, researchers like Xin Li are working
hard to fix some of the most fundamental problems currently faced by self-
driving car technology in order to eventually reduce motor vehicle deaths.

“A few years ago I started to talk to a few of the auto companies in the US
about the problems they were facing with self-driving cars,” says Li, a
professor in the Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering at both Duke
and Duke Kunshan University. Because of his dual appointment, Li spends a lot
of time in China, where he has continued the self-driving car conversation
with Chinese automakers.

Li says there are two main issues currently standing in the way of fully
autonomous driving technology: the _verification problem_ and the _integration
problem._

The verification problem boils down to the following dilemma: for something to
be proven safe, you must first learn what circumstances cause it to fail. “If
you are asking your customer to drive a self-driving car on the road, the
failure rate must be very, very small,” says Li. Figuring out how to calculate
that rate—and, by extension, how then to correct those failures—has become a
central research question for Li.

So how do you calculate the failure rate? One solution is to simply let the
self-driving car navigate an area until it makes a mistake—not stopping at a
stop sign, for instance. But most of these failures happen under very rare
circumstances called “corner cases” (think, a boulder tumbling onto a mountain
road), meaning this approach would take a prohibitive amount of time.

“It’s difficult to physically observe all possible scenarios over all corner
cases, so we thought, ‘why don’t we use a computer and ask the computer to
synthetically generate these possible cases?’” says Li. Instead of waiting
around for a car on the road to uncover every bizarre confluence of weather
and erratic drivers that causes the system to misread a stoplight, Li’s team’s
unique approach creates these scenarios using intelligent computer programs.
These programs use statistical models and algorithms to generate synthetic
situations for the autonomous system to navigate.

In one recent paper published in the November 2017 issue of Computer-Aided
Design, his team showed that high temperature and aged circuitry can degrade
the images gathered by a self-driving car’s cameras. The team used a machine
learning technique called Cycle-Consistent Generative Adversarial Networks to
generate synthetic image data as if it were gathered at a high temperature or
using old circuits. When they fed those degraded images into the autonomous
system, it struggled to properly identify stop signs. By creating synthetic
failure cases like this, Li’s research allows automakers to more accurately
verify how often and, more importantly, under which scenarios a system might
fail. Li then works with his collaborators in industry to implement this new
technology into hardware and software that makes autonomous vehicles safer.

Unfortunately, the more components added to an autonomous vehicle, the higher
the chances of something going wrong. This is the paradigm of the second
hurdle for autonomous vehicles: the _integration problem_. Self-driving cars
must seamlessly combine all kinds of complicated systems—from collision
avoidance modules to stoplight detection—all while navigating an environment
at 60 miles per hour. Figuring out how to ensure that components work together
quickly and effectively will form the next phase in Li’s research.

“Honestly, it’s a very difficult problem and we don’t have a good solution
yet,” says Li, though he’s hopeful that developing a more centralized
computing system for the car could go a long way towards integrating the
vehicle’s functionality.

Li says there is also a more fundamental issue facing the field of self-
driving car development—education. While conventional vehicle design is the
domain of mechanical engineers, building autonomous vehicles will require
broad expertise in artificial intelligence, software design and system
engineering. To face the problems of tomorrow will take a novel
interdisciplinary approach. “I think it’s very important for an educational
institution like Duke to train students with the right background so they can
engage in these emerging areas when they graduate,” says Li.

Doing foundational research on self-driving cars has unbelievably high stakes.
“When industry adopts my solution, I do have the responsibility to make sure
this is going to work…If there’s an error then people could get killed,” says
Li. At the same time, working on some of the biggest questions in self-driving
car development is an incredible opportunity. “Right now autonomous driving is
an emerging field with lots of open problems. This makes it a very exciting
time for academic people like me,” says Li.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

