

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Yiran Chen: Integrating Tomorrow’s Technology into Today’s Devices

December 22, 2016

New faculty member Yiran Chen researches emerging memory technologies, power-
saving techniques for mobile devices, and brain-inspired computing systems

Yiran Chen will join the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at
Duke University beginning January 1, 2017. With a proven track record of
developing innovative semiconductor designs for integrated circuits and memory
systems, Chen will work to integrate emerging software/hardware solutions into
commercial applications.

After earning his bachelor’s and master’s degrees in electronic engineering
from Tsinghua University in 1998 and 2001, respectively, Chen completed his
doctoral degree in electrical and computer engineering at Purdue University in
2005. He then joined Synopsys, one of the world’s largest software companies,
as a senior research and development engineer before spending more than three
years at Seagate as a staff engineer.

In both positions, Chen excelled in developing new electronic hardware design
technologies—such as an award-winning analysis tool for simulating the timing
and performance of new microchip designs. He also worked on next-generation
memory hardware before joining the faculty of the University of Pittsburgh in
2010.

In recent years, his research has focused on three main areas: emerging memory
technologies, power-saving techniques for mobile devices, and brain-inspired
computing systems.

“There are currently several mainstream technologies for memory that are used
for different purposes,” said Chen. “But all of them rely on electrons to
store information. As we continue to make microchips smaller and denser, there
is a physical limit that begins to make the system unreliable.”

As alternatives, Chen is researching ways to create memory systems that rely
on magnetism, the spin of electron or the resistance of a nanoscale component.
Such technologies offer better scalability, lower power consumption and faster
performance. For example, Chen says, you could potentially back up your entire
computer in a few milliseconds and have its memory remain reliable for months
or years at a time.

Chen’s second area of research focuses on power-savings technologies for smart
phones and other mobile devices. For example, different colors of LED lights
consume different amounts of power. According to Chen, it is possible to come
up with different lighting schemes that use less power but still offer the
same performance to the user. Other ideas involve processing images and video
more efficiently and dimming the display of an area while it is covered by a
user’s finger during use.

“I’m also working on security features that allows a device to recognize its
owner,” said Chen. “Everybody operates their devices in slightly different
ways by using their fingers. There are variations in how a device is held, the
way the finger makes contact with the phone, and the speed and cadence of
typing and commands. I’m working on background security features that can
detect and learn these patterns to recognize when somebody other than the
owner is using the device.”

Chen’s final research track involves developing computing technologies that
mimic how the human brain operates. Chen’s colleague, Hai “Helen” Li, who is
also joining Duke, is seeking to create “neuromorphic” chips that attempt to
model the incredibly large and complex parallel processing power of the human
brain. If the individual components can change how they connect with each
other in response to stimuli, then the computer chip can actually learn from
its experiences as an actual neural network does. Chen’s role in this research
is to create models and simulations of emerging architectural designs to speed
progress toward workable circuits.

As the only child of a high-school teachers’ family, Chen has strong passion
on teaching and education. He introduced Cornell Cup—a national competition of
embedded system design for college students—to the University of Pittsburgh
and received multiple awards with his student teams. He also loves to adopt
multimedia and high-tech approaches in his teaching practice—something he
looks forward to doing more of at Duke—and created the first education channel
at the Swanson School of Engineering at the University of Pittsburgh on
YouTube.

In each area, Chen says he sees good ties to existing research projects at
Duke, and is looking forward to forging collaborations with many faculty
members across campus.

“Duke is a highly respected university, and it is exciting for me to move my
research here,” said Chen. “During my visit, I could feel the enthusiasm for
everyone on the campus for both research and education. I’ve never seen any
university have such strong passion to pursue excellence and strive to be
among the top tier for both research and education.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

