

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2022

# Adrienne Stiff-Roberts: 2021 Distinguished Service Award

February 17, 2022

Adrienne Stiff-Roberts's impact over nearly 20 years can be felt throughout
every corner of the school and even into the surrounding community

When Adrienne Stiff-Roberts, the Jeffrey N. Vinik Professor of Electrical and
Computer Engineering, joined Duke Engineering’s faculty in 2004, the school
looked very different. The Fitzpatrick Center had barely opened, Duke’s
expertise in materials science was scattered and without a cohesive vision,
and there were no Black full professors on the faculty.

Now, almost two decades later, much of that has changed thanks to Stiff-
Roberts’s vision and leadership. What hasn’t changed, however, is the
supportive environment created by the administration that initially drew her
to the school—and the students.

“First and foremost, what has kept me here for nearly 20 years are the
incredible students I have been able to work with at Duke, whether as an
instructor, an academic advisor, a research mentor or an outreach mentor,”
Stiff-Roberts said. “Duke undergraduate and graduate students in the Pratt
School of Engineering are eager, sincere, motivated and hard-working. It makes
my job a pleasure.”

Stiff-Roberts earned her undergraduate degree in electrical engineering from
the Georgia Institute of Technology before getting both her master’s in
electrical engineering and PhD in applied physics from the University of
Michigan and a PhD in physics from Spelman College. After finishing her
doctoral work, she immediately joined Duke Engineering’s faculty.

In the laboratory, Stiff-Roberts’s research explores thin-film deposition of
semiconductor materials for optoelectronic devices, such as solar cells and
light emitting diodes. But her impact can be felt throughout every corner of
the school and even into the surrounding community.

Looking to make materials science more accessible to students and faculty
working in disparate fields, Stiff-Roberts worked with a group of faculty from
multiple departments in both Pratt and Trinity to create the University
Program in Materials Science and Engineering. The graduate program, she says,
helps to acknowledge the multi-disciplinary nature of materials science and
engineering across campus, providing an opportunity to elevate the status of
this research area at Duke. It also provides a nexus for a vibrant community
of researchers that is sustained by the Duke Materials Initiative led by
Stefan Zauscher, professor of mechanical engineering and materials science.

The overall goal of the program, she says, is to provide an entryway to
materials science and engineering across campus, such that students can
experience a core curriculum as a cohort but fan out across campus to pursue
specific research interests. “I hope to see sustained growth of the MS and PhD
programs, as we are about half-way to reaching our goals,” Stiff-Roberts said.
“I also hope to see an even distribution of graduate student research projects
across all of the participating departments.”

Off campus, Stiff-Roberts founded and runs the Student Engineers Network:
Strengthening Opportunities in Research (SENSOR) Saturday Academy for 8th and
9th graders in Durham Public Schools. Since 2007, the program has served over
125 budding scientists.

“Over this time, the most rewarding aspect has been seeing what the students
do after graduating from high school,” Stiff-Roberts said. “Many of them go on
to college in STEM fields, and I look forward to seeing all that they
accomplish.”

During her time at Duke Engineering, Stiff-Roberts says that the biggest
change she has seen might be the growth of the faculty and research
enterprise. As a school, she says, Pratt’s research contributions have become
a significant component of research at Duke overall, which speaks tremendously
of the faculty efforts within the school. The other big change she has seen
for the better is the First-Year Design course for undergraduates, which has
been an excellent addition to the curriculum to engage students in the
engineering design process as soon as possible to help them sustain their
motivation to pursue engineering degrees.

Moving forward, Stiff-Roberts hopes to pick her SENSOR Academy back up to its
pre-pandemic levels and expand its reach beyond what she can accomplish as an
individual while helping Duke’s materials science initiatives grow. She also
hopes to help the school continue to tear down the barriers that she first
broke through.

“One of the biggest challenges still facing Duke Engineering is to improve the
diversity of the student, faculty and staff populations, as well as the
climate for underrepresented populations within the school,” Stiff-Roberts
said. “Pratt has taken steps toward corrective action, as has the entire
university, and I hope to see sustained efforts to make a significant and
lasting difference to improve the lived experiences for everyone on campus.”

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2022

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

