

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2022

# The Class of 2022’s First Bond

April 1, 2022 | By David Gorman

A look back at the critical role EGR 101 played in the future of its first
class of Duke Engineers

At the end of the 2022 spring semester, Duke’s senior engineers will graduate
from the Pratt School of Engineering as the first full class to have taken EGR
101: Engineering Design and Communication, a major milestone for the
relatively new course.

Introduced just four years ago by Ann Saterbak, director of the Duke
Engineering First Year Design, EGR 101 was developed to provide a unifying
hands-on experience for all new Pratt students. Saterbak aimed to
revolutionize the first-year engineering curriculum by implementing a highly
iterative design-oriented course. “Hands-on, project-based courses at the
first-year level improve retention, increase excitement and build the
engineering mindset, all of which are important goals in terms of education,”
Saterbak said. “The main thing I want them to learn about is the iterative
engineering design process, so that remains the centerpoint of the
experience.”

Over the course of the semester, students work on real client projects that
are design challenges presented by members of the Duke community to be solved
by teams of four-to-five first-year engineers. Each fall semester, over 60
teams complete projects ranging from realistic surgical models to websites,
and from bridges to infant incubation modules. Along the way, they are exposed
to elements of design, like iterative prototyping, basic technical skills,
evaluation tools and testing processes, as well as elements of formal
communication like technical writing, oral presentations and project
documentation.

The technical aspect of EGR 101 proved especially meaningful to Shami Chideya,
a senior mechanical engineer, who worked with her design team to develop a
water leak-detection device for Duke Facilities in her client project. “EGR
101 introduced me to a variety of technical skills that I’ve found to be
useful throughout my college experience, including 3D printing, woodworking,
soldering and laser cutting,” Chideya said. “I remember feeling incredibly
intimidated by all of those tools when I first arrived at Duke, and that
course helped to ease me into learning about them while feeling supported.”

While these tools and skills certainly proved useful to her in her design
projects in EGR 101 and later courses, they also had a second, arguably more
important meaning. When asked how her Duke experience would have been
different without EGR 101, Chideya responded, “I probably would have learned
about my appreciation for design a little later down the road in my Duke
journey. I’m grateful for the head start and confidence it gave me in
exploring that later on.” This confidence ultimately led Chideya to pursue
multiple design-oriented independent studies, mentor new Duke engineers as the
mechanical engineering E-team lead, and help expose high-school students to
STEM through her role as co-chair of the Pre-College Initiative of the
National Society of Black Engineers.

Jenny Xin, a senior biomedical engineer, found that EGR 101 impacted her in a
different way. While the technical aspects of the course were certainly
valuable to her, Xin felt more strongly about the value of EGR 101 as an
introductory course to Duke Engineering, inspiring her excitement and
confidence within the Pratt community. “It was a great class to start off my
engineering degree,” Xin said. “It was great to get hands-on experience
prototyping my first semester at Duke, and it was useful to be introduced to
many of the machines, materials and resources available at Duke.”

While EGR 101 does indeed introduce its first-year Pratt students to world-
class faculty, innovative spaces including the Engineering Design POD, and
plenty of other technical and academic resources, there is also something
genuinely engaging and enjoyable about simply attending an EGR 101 class
session. “I really enjoyed working with my team for EGR 101,” Xin said. “My
teammates made EGR 101 feel like a break from studying rather than a required
class.” Xin and her teammates worked with Duke Forest staff to develop a
device that sorts tree nuts from other falling debris to collect them more
efficiently, helping facilitate forest re-search.

For all these seniors’ successes in EGR 101, though, there were also plenty of
failures along the way, both large and small. Whether it be stumbling through
a presentation, dis-covering a flaw in a prototype or even falling into
retention ponds during testing, EGR 101 can often be a bumpy ride. Saterbak
sees this in a positive light. “When things go wrong, I just laugh,” Saterbak
said. “I try to join them [students] in the moment of just saying...it’s
okay.” Saterbak’s reinforcement in the value of failure and setbacks as prime
learning and developmental opportunities has truly helped create an
environment where first-year engineers can thrive.

EGR 101 played a critical role in shaping the soon-to-graduate Pratt Class of
2022, aiding them in becoming technically proficient, confident, articulate,
curious and resilient. But more than that, EGR 101 acted as the initial glue
of the Class of 2022, exposing them to common tools and challenges, and the
value of that bond cannot be overstated. In these respects, Saterbak and this
year’s senior engineers paved the way for the next generation of Duke
engineers.

**David Gorman is a freshman studying mechanical engineering.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2022

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

