

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2022

# Leslie Voorhees Means: 2020 Distinguished Young Alumni Award

February 17, 2022

Leslie Voorhees Means is the co-founder and CEO of Anomalie, the first direct-
to-consumer wedding dress company

Leslie Voorhees Means (’08) pursued a degree in mechanical engineering while
at Duke with the hope of eventually landing a job at Nike. She never dreamed,
however, that she’d end up disrupting the wedding dress industry.

Even as a little kid growing up in Oregon, Voorhees Means knew she wanted to
get a job at Nike. That wish didn’t take long to come true, as she was able to
land an internship with the global company just after her junior year at Duke.
After she graduated, that internship turned into a job offer on the product
development team, where she helped ensure that the shoe designs being created
on paper could actually be manufactured in real life.

After spending five years at Nike—two of which were spent on a factory floor
in Indonesia— Voorhees Means decided to pursue more executive roles in
engineering and enrolled at Harvard Business School. After graduating in 2015,
she went to work at Apple, where her operations group led the oversight of
Apple’s supply chain in China, allowing her to be a part of the first Apple
Watch launch.

But little did Voorhees Means know that, even while working for Apple, her
life had already started down a drastically different path. While at Harvard,
Voorhees Means got engaged and began shopping for wedding dresses at bridal
boutiques in the United States.

“Shopping for dresses made me realize how broken the experience was, since
there are only a few, expensive options for a dress that the bride wears for
only one day,” Voorhees Means said.

Having manufacturing knowledge from her time at Nike, Voorhees Means could
make an educated guess as to how much the dresses actually cost to make and
wondered why they were so expensive. So while on a business trip in Shanghai
for Apple, she did some investigation and discovered an untapped supply chain
in Suzhou that makes most of the world’s wedding dresses.

“My coworkers were ordering custom suits nearby, so I decided to try it
myself,” Voorhees Means said. “I designed my own dress and found a workshop to
make it, and I was really impressed with the quality and price, not to mention
their ability to customize every little detail.”

The dress was so good, in fact, that Voorhees Means didn’t even have to get
any alterations once the dress was completed. Seeing the opportunity in front
of her—and having all of the experience needed to chase after it— Voorhees
Means took the leap into entrepreneurship. She quit her job at Apple and went
all-in on the idea of going directly from consumer to manufacturing. Called
Anomalie, the dress company cuts out the boutique stores while providing
flexible designs and prices that can fit any body or budget.

“I never expected to go the founder route because I loved working at
influential brands,” Voorhees Means said. “But because of the experience and
expertise I built, I had an opportunity to go after it.”

Even with her business being a big success, Voorhees Means still has an eye on
the future. Since her company collects so much measurement data from countless
brides who are passionate about their purchase, Voorhees Means sees a
potential opportunity for a longer-term play that could impact the entire
women’s garment industry since women’s bodies are all different.

Despite Voorhees Means’s globetrotting and busy career, she has also still
found time to stay connected to her Duke roots. As chair of her five- and ten-
year reunions, she found planning with the other co-chairs was a fun way to
stay connected while also giving back. She has also stayed in touch with the
alumni association, donating money when able, partly in honor of her
experience as an undergraduate with the Pratt Phone-a-thon.

“I made lifelong friends at Duke, and all of my closest friends were also from
Pratt,” Voorhees Means said. “It’s so fun that those relationships and bonds
that you form can be lifelong.”

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2022

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

