

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2019

# Solving Imposter Syndrome Through Community-Building and Interdisciplinary
Work

July 11, 2019 | By Nami Reddy

Shaundra Daily joins the Pratt School of Engineering faculty devoting her time
to developing community through Duke Technology Scholars and beyond

Shaundra Daily has joined Duke University as a professor of the practice in
electrical and computer engineering and computer science. She is also a core
faculty member in Innovation & Entrepreneurship and faculty director of Duke
Technology Scholars. Outside of teaching, she is a co-founder and creative
director of DEEP Designs, LLC. Daily received her undergraduate degree in
electrical engineering from Florida State University, and her Master's and PhD
in media arts and sciences from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

Daily began her engineering career as a means to an end; her goal was to get a
job at the CIA. She had a budding interest in investigative work, and her
decision to pursue engineering was rooted in a desire to be a good CIA
candidate.

As she progressed in her undergraduate career, however, she developed a
passion for electrical engineering. Daily continuously exceeded expectations,
and one of her professors took note, approaching her about pursuing a PhD.
Though Daily was hesitant at first and hadn't imagined pursuing a PhD, she
abandoned her plan of working for the CIA. She entered an electrical
engineering doctoral program at Florida Agricultural and Mechanical University
(FAMU) and spent time researching topics from solar power to biomimetics, but
eventually discovered her calling in education innovation.

While at FAMU, she designed and executed a curriculum for a National Society
of Black Engineers program called Technical Outreach Community Help
(T.O.R.C.H.). It was here that she discovered her talent for creating lesson
plans and a particular interest in pedagogy. This experience led her to
reevaluate the focus of her PhD.

Daily decided she wanted to explore the intersection of electrical engineering
and pedagogy. When faced with barriers to pursuing this at FAMU, she finished
a masters in electrical engineering and opted to apply elsewhere, landing at
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Media Lab in 2003 to complete her
doctorate. At MIT, she focused on implementations for affective computing in
educational technology and thrived in the Media Lab by exploring the often-
untapped potential in interdisciplinary, creative work in engineering.

Daily went on to co-found a company focused on bringing others' ideas to
reality. Although she enjoyed the experience, Daily recalls that "there was
something missing." Subsequently, Daily was offered a position at Clemson
University as an associate professor, which she viewed as the perfect fusion
of self-agency and stability. It was a welcome change for the single mother of
two. Daily compares being a professor to being an entrepreneur, saying, "I'm
able to choose my own problems and go after funding to support my ideas. I set
my own hours...for the most part. The big difference is somebody else is
paying my salary."

While at Clemson, the project Daily designates as her proudest professional
achievement came to fruition. A juncture of her interests in affective
computing and teaching, Virtual Environment Interactions (VEnvI) is a software
that melds choreography with computational concept education.

To develop this software, Daily drew on her gymnastics and dance background.
The software was aimed at engaging middle school girls in a programming
curriculum by demonstrating that computing can center around creative and
expressive potential.

When asked about her thoughts on the sterotype of engineers as one-
dimensional, Daily replied, "I think that engineering gets overlooked for the
creative activity it is. Yes, there's a lot of math and science, but have you
seen how beautiful engineering creations can be? Or thought about the
creativity it takes to design mechanisms that operate everyday objects?"

Daily firmly believes that keeping her artistic side active throughout her
college career and beyond has bolstered her career by giving her a unique
skillset. While she acknowledges that the skillset she possesses may not give
her the same technical knowhow as her more specialized colleagues, she is more
than okay with the tradeoff.

"I can understand why students feel a pressure to fill their resumes with the
latest technical skills," said Daily. "But my best interview conversations and
most notable projects have come from allowing all the parts of my personality
to shine through."

As Daily headed for increasingly administrative roles, she was offered a
position at Duke that provided what she terms a "return to what she
enjoys...teaching." Here, Daily teaches two introductory engineering classes
as well as a higher-level class, Special Projects in Electrical and Computer
Engineering.

When she's not teaching, Daily advocates for students to be both technically
savvy and multi-dimensional. She encourages her students to proudly interweave
their unique talents and diverse backgrounds with their technological
endeavors and to create inclusive communities.

Her primary channel for these beliefs is Duke Technology Scholars (DTech), a
partnership between Duke's Trinity College of Arts & Sciences Computer Science
Department and the Pratt School of Engineering's Electrical & Computer
Engineering Department. Daily explains, "DTech is a comprehensive effort to
inspire a more diverse group of Duke undergraduates to choose careers in
computer science and electrical and computer engineering. The DTech program
centers around the idea that relationships, mentorship and hands-on experience
make the difference in recruiting and retaining diverse individuals in
technology fields."

Through the program, Daily works with executive director Monica Jenkins and
staff to mitigate the feelings that accompany imposter syndrome. To her, "The
biggest thing about DTech is that the students have been able to create
community with each other. When you talk to other people, you realize you're
not the only one dealing with particular challenges."

It is Daily's firm belief that this open communication among students within
close-knit communities can alleviate imposter syndrome because, as she says,
"In a community where you can be transparent and vulnerable, you get to learn
it's not just you feeling that way."

Daily hopes the DTech model of community building will extend beyond its
current participants and that the propagation of such communities across
campus will instill a sense of belonging among all students. And perhaps, by
creating the right environments for students, the prevalence of imposter
syndrome will begin to fade.

**Nami Reddy is a junior double-majoring in biomedical engineering and
computer science with a minor in computational biology and bioinformatics.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2019

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

