

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2019

# The Pieces Required to Break a World Record

July 12, 2019 | By Nimisha Pant

The Duke Electric Vehicles team broke the Guinness World Record for most fuel-
efficient vehicle this summer

Duke is home to many basketball championships, Nobel prize winners and
groundbreaking medical research. Now, Duke students have achieved another
impressive feat— breaking the world record for the most fuel- efficient
vehicle in history. Duke Electric Vehicles (DEV), a student-run organization,
accomplished this feat at Galot Motorsports in Benson, North Carolina on July
21, 2018.

It is impressive how, despite the demands of being a Duke Engineering student,
these students were able to accomplish such an achievement. But when you look
closer, they used a simple recipe; the students had a goal and followed a
timeline to meet that goal.

The fall semester for DEV is typically used for strategizing, design
conceptualization and training new members. The spring semester is used for
manufacturing parts, testing and competitions. DEV initially planned to break
the world record at the Shell Eco-Marathon, which they compete in annually in
the spring. However, the club members discovered that the magnitude of what
they were trying to accomplish warranted more time, so a few students worked
on the vehicle all summer until they were able to attain their goal of
breaking the world record in July.

The members of DEV faced many challenges in the process. The team needed to
adjust to implement the fuel cell, which was new this past year and therefore
unfamiliar, even to members who had been on the team for years. DEV president
Gerry Chen said, “We only had a year to work with the fuel cell, whereas the
rest of the parts of the car had been worked on for about seven years.”

Even with many challenges, members of DEV believe key characteristics of the
team set them apart from other teams and made it possible for them to achieve
the world record. Co-president Shomik Verma noted, “Our team members with vast
experience with electronics definitely set us apart.” Chen emphasized that all
team members were able to test each component and figure out how to optimize
it to create the best overall product, which made DEV’s vehicle that much
better than everyone else’s.

Student groups at Duke can have far-reaching impacts, both inside and outside
the Duke community. The impacts are most profound upon the members of the
groups. DEV certainly requires team members who are dedicated to working
through a product from start to finish and not giving up until it is done.

The impacts of this impeccable work ethic are far-reaching. When asked how DEV
added to his Duke experience, Verma replied, “DEV helped me build confidence
in my design decisions.” He continued by expressing that classes ordinarily
give specific problems that have one correct answer, while at DEV, students
are tasked with choosing from an infinite number of ways to solve a large
problem.

Being able to collaborate with a team and work through making real decisions
to meet design constraints helped Verma and other students on the team become
comfortable and confident in their decisions—a skill that can be translated to
most jobs in the real world. Beyond impacts on the team members, DEV is also
reaching out to local high schools to help them with their electronics.

Now that DEV has broken the world record for being the most fuel-efficient
vehicle, what’s next? The team hopes to create a fully battery-powered
vehicle, which would mean breaking yet another world record. They also intend
to go a step farther, hoping to eventually make their vehicle autonomous and
be able to drive more efficiently that any human could. It seems that there’s
much in store for DEV and hopefully they’ll be breaking world records for
years to come.

**Nimisha Pant is a sophomore studying mechanical engineering at Duke.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2019

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

