Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Building Bridges and Building Audiences

December 9, 2021 | Miranda Volborth

Duke CEE attracts a particular type of student: scrappy, resourceful and
deeply interested in improving human health and the state of the environment.
Many of these students focus on global development projects; others are
exploring science communication as a new avenue to create meaningful change

Open the door to any civil or environmental engineering lab at Duke and you’ll
find students working to improve sanitation, mitigate air pollution, or build
earthquake early detection networks, among many other aspirational projects.

“Students become engineers because we want to see things working in the real
world as we imagine them in our minds,” said Professor of the Practice David
Schaad, who teaches the popular “Engineering Sustainable Design and the Global
Community” course, cross-listed with public policy and environmental science,
each spring. A number of students, including those who belong to Duke
Engineers for International Development (DEID), enroll in this course and
spend the semester designing projects like bridges, clinics and water
catchment systems over the course of the semester. In the summer, some of them
travel and live abroad, working with engineers in a host community to revise
and implement their designs.

DEID students traveled to Rwanda in 2014 to help construct this pedestrian
bridge. In other years, projects have been based in Honduras, Uganda, Costa
Rica, Bolivia, and the United States.

DEID began in 2005, completing their first projects in Indonesia after the
2004 Tsunami, and initially working as a chapter of Engineers Without Borders.
A helpful collaboration with the Duke Global Health Institute followed, aiding
an ambitious project to build a community clinic in Honduras. But when DEID
partnered with DukeEngage in 2008, said Schaad, “it was transformative.”
DukeEngage provided support for logistical costs, including airfare, allowing
DEID to focus on raising money for materials, 100 percent of which stay in-
country. And, because DukeEngage emphasizes immersion, students can live and
work in their host communities for eight weeks or longer, making large strides
toward project completion and allowing for more impactful community-driven
projects.

This summer, students worked on a vehicular bridge in West Virginia; next
summer, they’ll build a pedestrian bridge in Bolivia.

During the pandemic, students worked closer to home, helping to build a
vehicular bridge in West Virginia

“Students can have a worthwhile experience as a summer intern, redlining
documents in an office, but they can also be out in the field, figuring out
how to intercept a spring to pipe water to a community three kilometers away,”
said Schaad. “There is something so gratifying about that kind of experience.
Many students involved with DEID see the impact of their work and want to make
that part of their ethos—even if they go into other fields.”

Schaad rattled off a string of DEID alumni now managing global development
projects—or designing huge metropolitan building projects or working in energy
development or the foreign service. “They’re all doing the work of a global
citizen,” he said.

**Duke’sGlobal Development Engineering certificate can formalize a curricular
pathway for interested students.** In addition to technical training, the
program covers topics in ethics, public policy and economics, and fosters a
cooperative approach to solving global challenges like economic empowerment
and access to health care.

Joining institutional programs like DEID isn’t the only way that students are
catalyzing change. Some are forging new paths, leveraging popular science
communication tactics.

A handful of students on an interdisciplinary Bass Connections team exploring
geoengineering, for example, decided that the best way to demystify such a
big, weird concept was to talk about it more. So in April of 2020, they
launched a climate-oriented educational podcast for their peers.

None of the students had any experience producing a podcast, but that didn’t
slow them down . . . much. After Kathleen Burns, a PhD candidate in English,
gave the budding podcasters some tips on presenting information clearly for a
non-technical audience, they produced and released the first three episodes of
the “Operation Climate” podcast in quick succession, easing their audience
into the topic with an initial episode titled “Why We Should Care About
Climate Change.”

### Why We Should Care About Climate Change

### The History of Geoengineering and Weather Control

### How Does Geoengineering Even Work?

Even as the Bass Connections project spooled down, said civil and
environmental engineering (CEE) student Matthew Brune, his ambitions for the
podcast grew. “I texted Katherine (Li, another CEE student who worked to
launch Operation Climate) and said ‘Hey, that was really fun. Let’s keep
going,’” said Brune. The two partnered with the Duke Environmental Alliance to
expand the range of environmental issues the podcast addressed, tackling
COVID-19 and climate, activism, and most recently creating a whole season on
carbon neutrality.

This summer, Brune and Li created a high school internship program engaging
more than 40 students from the U.S. and Canada, who receive training in
podcasting and producing videos and other educational content. The hope is
that these young science communicators will influence their own peers with the
media they create and share. Brune and Li have filed for 501c3 status, a
designation that will support them in their quest to create a small army of
climate influencers.

The nonprofit status would also help them with the goal of integrating
climate-related content with high school science curricula where they can. “We
are aware that teachers have less than zero time to cover new material,”
acknowledge Brune, “so we’re looking at existing curricula and creating five-
to ten-minute warm-ups that support their objectives.”

“Early on, we had to decide--did we want to reach a large group and move them
just a bit? Or did we want to engage intensely with a smaller group and move
them to action?” asked Li. “The key to making real change is action.”

"The key to making real change is action."

And knowledge, pointed out Imari Karega Walker, a PhD student in the lab of
environmental chemist Lee Ferguson. Walker studies the fate of plastic
components as they break down and disperse in the environment, and she knows a
lot more than the average person about the potential risks posed by exposure
to microplastics and plastic additives.

“We need to have the power to make decisions for ourselves,” said Walker. “And
if we don’t even know what we’re putting into our environment and what we’re
exposing ourselves to, we can’t make informed decisions.”

Knowing that people generally don’t seek out this kind of information from
academic sources, Walker started a YouTube channel in 2020 to share her
knowledge about plastic pollution and chemicals in consumer products.

Almost immediately, she was inundated with speaker requests. She has
participated in an online press conference to launch the Presidential Plastics
Action Plan and spoke to U.S. senators and members of the House of
Representatives about the new Break Free from Plastic Act. She also made a
video in cooperation with the World Wildlife Federation and Ocean Plastics
Leadership Network, in support of their efforts to launch a global treaty on
plastics.

Walker estimated that she’s contributed to more than 30 science communication
events over the past year, somehow managing her PhD research and her work on a
plastic policy case with the Duke Environmental Law Clinic as well.

“It wasn’t the most well-balanced life,” admitted Walker. “But now I have
experience enough to know how long that two-minute video or 20-minute
presentation will take to prepare, to the standards that I require.”

Though she’s recalibrated, Walker has no plans to slow down. “I’m really
hoping that all my work—the research, the SciComm work—will get knowledge out
to the people who need it,” she said.

Read additional stories from this issue

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

