Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# An Engineer on Writing

December 9, 2021 | Miranda Volborth

For more than 30 years, noted civil engineer and Duke CEE professor Henry
Petroski has explained our world from an engineering perspective, as a
columnist for American Scientist

It’s hard to imagine writing an entire book about the humble pencil. It’s even
harder to imagine finding so much to say about the simple writing instrument
that after the volume’s publication, there were chapters left over.

When Duke professor of civil engineering Henry Petroski penned _The Pencil_ ,
which he did while on sabbatical leave at the National Humanities Center in
Research Triangle Park, N.C., that’s exactly what happened; he had remainders.
But those chapters, too, would eventually see the light of day, in an adjusted
format: in 1990, they became Petroski’s first “Engineering” columns in
_American Scientist_ magazine.

> Over more than 30 years of writing the bimonthly essays, Petroski has delved
> deeply into engineering topics both mundane and sensational, from bread
> twist ties to bridge failures.

Sigma Xi, the scientific and engineering research honor society and publisher
of _American Scientist_ , had relocated from New Haven, Connecticut to
Research Triangle Park earlier that year, and editor Brian Hayes called on
Petroski to gauge the professor’s interest in writing for the magazine.
Petroski had written two widely reviewed books by then— _To Engineer Is Human:
The Role of Failure in Successful Design,_ as well as _The Pencil_ —and he
dusted off two chapters from an early draft of the second manuscript and sent
them over to Hayes for consideration. “On the Backs of Envelopes,” about quick
and dirty calculations, was the first that Hayes printed.

This spring, Petroski—now the Aleksander S. Vesic Distinguished Professor
Emeritus at Duke University—published his 183rd consecutive column for
_American Scientist._ Titled “Elevators Rise to the Occasion,” the column
shares a brief history of elevators and observations on how the current
pandemic has changed public perception of their safety.

Over more than 30 years of writing the bimonthly essays, Petroski has delved
deeply into engineering topics both mundane and sensational, from bread twist
ties to bridge failures. He managed this while teaching full-time, publishing
an additional 17 books for general audiences, and taking on a second regular
column for _Prism_ , a magazine published by the American Society for
Engineering Education.

Petroski said that while there’s no secret trick to maintaining a steady flow
of inspired writing, discipline certainly helps, as does the willingness to
follow where one’s curiosity leads.

He shared his reflections on the column, and on writing, in May of 2021.

**Q: How did you begin moonlighting as a writer?**

A: I had written a good deal of poetry as a graduate student, young engineer,
and assistant professor, and published over a hundred poems before I turned to
the essay form, which happened when I was leading a fracture mechanics group
at Argonne National Laboratory. I spent many a lunch hour in the lab’s main
library, where I read a lot of science and technology commentary. Among my
earliest published pieces of prose writing were op-ed essays in the _New York
Times_. I also published in MIT’s _Technology Review_ opinion pieces prompted
by guest lectures I attended at Argonne, and this led to my being invited by
its editor, Steven Marcus, to write feature articles for the magazine. This
progression from poem to essay to feature—from shorter to longer pieces—gave
me the confidence to write my first book, _To Engineer Is Human: The Role of
Failure in Successful Design_ , which I began about five years after joining
the faculty at Duke.

Throughout the progression of my writing I benefitted greatly from the support
of my wife, Catherine, who has written fiction and nonfiction herself, and has
been my first reader. She had a word processor before I did and was kind
enough to let me use it in the evenings.

**Q: How have you seen science communication change over the last 30 years?
Has your own approach to writing changed accordingly?**

A: I began writing seriously about engineering and technology in the 1970s,
while I was at Argonne. At the time, I read about those subjects mainly in
books and newspapers and magazines like _Scientific American_ and whatever the
lab’s library subscribed to. The _New York Times_ did not have a dedicated
science section the way every Tuesday’s paper now has the “Science Times”
section. As I recall, during the 1970s and into the 1980s there were a number
of new science and technology magazines ( _Discover_ , _Omni_ , et al.)
launched, but after a while they began to lose readers and in many cases cease
to exist.

My approach to writing, whether about engineering and technology or other
subjects, has probably changed in the sense that what I write about has
changed in the light of new developments. I can’t say exactly how my writing
itself has changed other than that I would like to think that it has become
more mature. But it is for others to judge whether I have improved or declined
in my basic communications skills.

**Q: It’s difficult to write creatively, with consistency. How do you manage?
Do you have schedules that you adhere to, or writing rituals that you use? Any
tips for overcoming writer’s block? (Asking for a friend…)**

A: All writing is difficult, I believe. When the words are coming with too
much ease, I wonder if I am kidding myself about how good they are. I do try
to be disciplined in my writing habits and work well ahead of deadlines.

> "One of the first things I did upon my arrival at Duke in 1980 was to
> request a carrel in Perkins Library. I lived within walking distance of
> campus in those days, and every morning that I did not have a class or
> meeting I stopped at Perkins to write in my carrel before proceeding on to
> my office in Hudson Hall."

Concurrently with the _American Scientist_ column, I have written for other
magazines. Since the fall of 2000 I have been writing a column for _Prism_ ,
the magazine of the American Society for Engineering Education. The column is
called “Refractions,” and it focuses on issues relating to teaching and the
engineering profession. Not only does it cover topics that in general would
not be appropriate for _American Scientist_ but it runs to at most 750 words
(about the length of a newspaper op-ed essay), whereas an “Engineering” column
is in the 3,000-word range. I find it interesting to write to different word
lengths; each requires a different kind of discipline and mindset. The
difference naturally affects how I approach the actual drafting of the column.

I did my earliest non-technical writing late at night, after a full day of
research or teaching and after I had prepared myself for the next day’s
meetings and classes. Writing conditions were ideal for me when the house was
quiet, after Catherine and our children had gone to sleep. One of the first
things I did upon my arrival at Duke in 1980 was to request a carrel in
Perkins Library. I lived within walking distance of campus in those days, and
every morning that I did not have a class or meeting I stopped at Perkins to
write in my carrel before proceeding on to my office in Hudson Hall. Several
of my books were written according to that regimen. Now that I am a professor
emeritus, I write in my study at home every day that I can, which has
essentially been every day during the stay-at-home phase of the pandemic.

**Q: Which of your columns generated the most response from readers?**

A: Each column seems to attract feedback from a different category of readers,
and so I hesitate to judge responses by quantity. However, I have noticed some
patterns that are interesting to me, but they may just be artifacts of the
membership of Sigma Xi and the readership of _American Scientist._ I do
receive a lot of mail from medical doctors, often about my columns involving
inventing and patenting. In fact, those columns also bring a significant
amount of mail from inventors generally. Much of my mail is from readers who
have suggestions about topics for future columns, or interesting anecdotes
about or insights into the topic of a published column. I do keep getting
multiple requests from Japanese agents and editors for permission to reprint a
few of my columns in primers and workbooks for students learning English.
These tend to be columns on commonplace topics, like opening doors.

**Q: Which column was the most fun to write?**

A: To me, all writing is fun in some sense. Since I have been writing this
column for over thirty years, my idea of fun has changed a bit, I suspect. I
guess that maybe the columns that are the best fun are those about topics or
things I know least about to start. It’s fun for me to discover new aspects of
knowledge and see how they fit into what I already know.

**Q: You seem to be very fond of puns. What’s the best pun you’ve snuck into a
column?**

A: I have been accused of using too many puns in my writing generally.
Fortunately, Catherine or an editor has convinced me to delete the real
groaners in manuscript. My columns may still contain some bad puns, but what
can I say?

Here is what can say: I would no more name a favorite pun, column, or book
than I would name a favorite among my children.

Read additional stories from this issue

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

