Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# 2021 Highlights

December 9, 2021

National accolades, new grants and professional society recognitions—see who
captured top honors in 2020-21

### Mark Wiesner

### Andrew Bragg, Manolis Veveakis

### Professional Honors

### Henry Petroski Named a Fellow of Sigma Xi

### Mark Borsuk Appointed to U.S. EPA Science Advisory Board

### University Honors

Claudia Gunsch was **named Associate Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement** ,
providing leadership in Duke University's efforts to ensure an inclusive and
respectful environment where faculty, students, and staff can thrive and
excel.

Marc Deshusses received an **Incubation Fund Award** from Duke Innovation and
Entrepreneurship Initiative, providing $60,000 of support for further
development of Stirling Solar Energy Generating System (S2EGS). This low-cost,
renewable energy solution aims to generate and store energy by coupling a
Stirling Engine with concentrated solar collectors and hot water storage.

Mike Bergin was named a **Bass Fellow** in recognition of his excellence in
research and undergraduate education.

Michael Valerino, a PhD student in the Bergin lab, was awarded the **2021
Clean Energy Prize** from the Duke University Energy Initiative and Innovation
& Entrepreneurship Initiative. The $10K award will support Michael as he leads
a team to develop an interactive, data-driven platform that aims to reduce the
$10 billion in solar energy losses sustained annually, owed to dust
accumulations on solar panels.

### Graduate Student Honors: Senol Utku Annual Awards

This competition recognizes graduate students and their faculty advisors for
intellectual excellence, creativity and quality of papers published in peer-
reviewed journals.

### Hanna Varga: Highest Distinction

"Effect of Dust Composition on the Reversibility of Photovoltaic Panel
Soiling" _Environmental Science & Technology.
_dx.doi.org/10.1021/acs.est.0c06196

_Advisor: Mark R. Wiesner_

### Boyang Zhang: Highest Distinction

“Gauss’s Principle with Inequality Constraints for Multi-agent Navigation and
Control” _IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, VOL. 67, NO. 2, February
2022_

_Advisor: Henri P. Gavin_

### Alexander McCumber: High Distinction

“The Environment Shapes Swine Lung Bacterial Communities” _Science of the
Total Environment 758 (2021) 143623_

_Advisor: Claudia Gunsch_

### Mohammadreza Momenifar: High Distinction

“Local Analysis of the Clustering, Velocities, and Accelerations of Particles
Settling in Turbulence” _Physical Review Fluids 5, 034306 (2020)_

_Advisor: Andrew D. Bragg_

### Tongshu Zheng: High Distinction

“Estimating Ground-Level Pm2.5 Using Micro-Satellite Images by a Convolutional
Neural Network and Random Forest Approach” _Atmospheric Environment 230 (2020)
117451_

_Advisor: David E. Carlson_

Read additional stories from this issue

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

