Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# 2020-2021 Research Awards

December 9, 2021

Eight significant new awards for the Department of Civil and Environmental
Engineering will support research in sustainability, resilience and human
health

**1\. Mike Bergin: Building Air Quality Infrastructure in South Asia**

Professor Mike Bergin will lead a three-year, $2 million grant from the United
States Department of State to create air quality sensor networks and research
programs in Bangladesh, India, Nepal and Sri Lanka. The project’s goal is to
improve air quality and human health throughout the region by partnering with
local governmental and private sector partners to improve air quality
monitoring and public awareness. The project will build on a network of
longtime collaborators from the University of Wisconsin at Madison and Indian
Institute of Technology at Kanpur, and bring together many new collaborations
with industry, governmental and non-governmental organizations and
universities across South Asia.

**2\. Mark Borsuk: Building Community Resilience to Natural Disaster-driven
Contaminant Exposures**

The overarching goal of this three-year, $800,000 project funded by U.S. EPA
is to assist communities in developing comprehensive strategies for building
resilience to contaminant releases associated with natural hazards. The
project will develop a generalizable and comprehensive risk analysis framework
that links natural hazards and changing environmental conditions to the
release, fate, and transport of contaminants. Investigators will collaborate
with community partners to identify factors that may modify exposure and
vulnerability of certain populations and include such factors in our framework
to holistically assess health risks, and assist communities in translating
scientific products into realistic and relevant management and readiness plans
that promote community resilience to natural hazards.

**3\. Andrew Bragg: Sheared Stratified Turbulenc**

A five-year, $500,000 award from the NSF will support Andrew Bragg’s research
into the basic physics of stratified turbulent flows, including the role
played by internal waves in generating and distorting turbulence, the
mechanisms governing the exchange of kinetic and potential energy between
different scales in the flow, and the processes that lead to extreme
fluctuations.

**4\. Carlson, David and Kafui Dzirasa (Psychiatry and Neurobiology):
Multiregional Electrical Encoding of Social Aggression**

The National Institutes of Mental Health has awarded $3M to Duke researchers
whose goal is to leverage machine learning to discover and validate an
explainable model for neuropsychiatric disorders. Carlson and Dzirasa have
previously used these technologies to better describe how environmental
pollution impacts the developing brain—including the effects of poor air
quality in an animal model of autism.

**5\. Marc Deshusses: Supercritical Water Oxidation for PFAS Destruction**

Supercritical water oxidation uses high pressure and temperature to break down
complex organic compounds into clean water and CO2. The overall objective of
this DoD-funded project is to demonstrate the technical feasibility of using
supercritical water oxidation for the complete destruction of PFAS in a
variety of relevant waste streams and to determine and optimize the treatment
cost effectiveness.

**6\. Andrew Jones: Co-existing with Bacteria in Biofilms**

The National Institutes of Health has awarded Andrew Jones $2M over five years
to better understand how bacteria are fixed to surfaces including food
processing equipment (and food itself) and how they react to antibiotics and
antiseptics in changing environmental conditions. Bacterial infections cause
more than 80,000 deaths in the U.S. every year, and Jones is seeking to
translate his research into practical knowledge for clinicians and food and
beverage manufacturers.

**7\. Manolis Veveakis: Modeling Geohazards**

A five-year, $580,000 NSF award will support Veveakis’s ambitious goal of
developing an entirely new framework for modeling large-scale geological
hazards. By developing a deep understanding of how various small-scale
phenomena such as micro-fracturing, chemical alterations and phase transitions
dissipate energy, Veveakis aims to be able to understand large-scale disasters
such as sinkholes, landslides and earthquakes.

**8\. Mark Wiesner: Advancing International Efforts to Develop Sustainable
Materials**

Building on global research collaborations developed over a decade by the
Center for the Environmental Implications of NanoTechnology (CEINT), Mark
Wiesner will now lead an NSF program called the International Network for
Researching, Advancing, and Assessing Materials for Environmental
Sustainability, or INFRAMES. The new five-year, $1.6 million program teams the
leaders of CEINT with other US and international partners to create a “network
of networks” to address questions about the environmental impacts of novel
materials.

Read additional stories from this issue

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

