Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Kimberly Novick E'02

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About
  3. Alumni

Kimberly Novick E'02  
Associate Professor, School of Public and Environmental Affairs, Indiana
University

#### Tell us about your lab at Indiana University. What kind of research do
you do?

My lab group studies interactions between ecosystems and the climate system.
We primarily focus on ecosystems of the eastern United States. Much of our
work is aimed at understanding how climate feedbacks, including rising
temperature, rising CO2, and increasing atmospheric aridity, will affect plant
function. We care deeply about these feedbacks because the forests of the
eastern United States are a really important regional carbon sink that provide
us with a deep “discount” on our anthropogenic emissions of CO2 from fossil
fuel burning. However, due to climate feedbacks, the future fate of this
important carbon sink is uncertain.

> "Much of our work is aimed at understanding how climate feedbacks, including
> rising temperature, rising CO2, and increasing atmospheric aridity, will
> affect plant function."

On one hand, there are some ways that the climate changing actually favors
carbon uptake and storage. Growing seasons are becoming longer, for example,
which means that trees in deciduous forests have a longer amount of time each
year to take CO2 out of the atmosphere. Moreover, CO2 concentrations in the
atmosphere are rising, and there's plenty of evidence to suggest that greater
atmospheric CO2 accelerates the rate of photosynthesis.

On the other hand, we can expect hotter temperatures, which can be limiting to
photosynthesis. Rising temperature also increases the dryness of the
atmosphere. Put simply, the atmosphere is becoming “thirstier,” and increasing
evaporation, which can be a source of stress for the plants. When plants are
stressed they close their stomates, which can limit photosynthesis.

#### How did you get into this area of research?

In my junior year I took an advanced fluid mechanics course, and we had a
field trip to the Duke Forest where professor Gaby Katul maintained “flux
towers” which track carbon dioxide exchange rates between the earth and
atmosphere. It seemed like a fun way to spend the summer—hanging out in the
top of the tree canopy. So, I sent him my CV and transcript and he accepted
me. I spent a summer on the towers, measuring photosynthesis rates right at
the level of the pine needles. And then I spent most of my senior year writing
the results up into a manuscript, which was eventually published along with
substantially mentoring and support from Gaby and other lab members,
especially Paul Stoy.

> "It seemed like a fun way to spend the summer—hanging out in the top of the
> tree canopy."

After I graduated, I spent three years working in the non-profit sector as an
environmental organizer. While that work felt important, I realized after some
time that it was not the work I really wanted to do. What I really had a
passion for was mathematics and coding, and solving puzzles that no one has
ever solved before— using the tools at my disposal to extrapolate meaning from
a set of knowns and unknowns. So, I decided it was time to go back to school.

Flux tower arrays in Duke Forest

I applied to a few universities, but I knew what was waiting for me at Duke,
having worked with professor Katul as an undergraduate. Plus, when I came to
visit, he had this great recruitment dinner that involved the best game of
ping-pong I've ever played—somehow he managed to get 20 different people
playing ping pong at the same time. So, I thought, "Well, this must be the
place for me,” and I came back to Duke as a member of the Katul lab.

#### What is your favorite thing about your job?

I am definitely at my happiest when I have time for research and taking on
hard problems. Another thing that I really like about my work is the
opportunity it presents to interact with people all over the country and all
over the world. After I left Duke, my work has become increasingly network-
oriented—part of a real explosion in the last 10 years in the growth of
environmental observation networks.

A flux tower in Duke Forest

The way that one used to do science went something like this: you formed a
question and hypthoesis, ran an experiment in the lab or in the field, and
published the results in (hopefully) a nice impactful paper. Maybe you would
pass your data along to the next student that came into the lab, to do
something else with. But the concept of widely sharing your data was very
foreign. But problems like climate change span regional, continental and
global scales, and can’t be confronted with the limited amount of data that
can be collected by a single person or lab group. We have to create networks
that aggregate data from many places, standardize their formats, and
redistribute them back to the community in an open and accessible way.

I have spent a lot of my professional career interacting with a network called
AmeriFlux, which is a network of flux towers like those that used to exist in
the Duke forest. I started in this network as a data provider and a data end-
user. Over time, my roles in service to AmeriFlux and other networks have
expanded to include advisory and leadership roles; I love this part of my job
as its very exciting to be able to shape the scientific mission of these data-
rich organizations.

It's been a real joy throughout my career to develop relationships with people
working across many institutions, and I found that really made my transition
into a faculty member easier because I felt like I had community, which would
have been harder to build without the connections provided by those networks.
It's been a lot of fun.

#### What advice do you have for students who are considering going on to PhD
and a similar career path in academia?

I would encourage them to seek out kind and supportive mentors who will allow
you to grow your ideas and supply you with some peripheral directions for your
research. You want mentors who will allow you to develop your own stamp on a
project, but also guide you in the direction that's going to have the biggest
impact.

> "Opportunities that could connect you with scientists and stakeholders who
> you didn't know before, or that will allow you to expand your professional
> network, are seriously worth considering, even if it has the appearance of
> taking time away from research."

The common advice, when you're an early career scientist, is that you should
be saying ‘no’ a lot. ‘No’ to things that do not directly align with your
research. But, actually, I'm not sure that's always good advice. I think that
sometimes saying ‘yes’ is a good idea. Opportunities that could connect you
with scientists and stakeholders who you didn't know before, or that will
allow you to expand your professional network, are seriously worth
considering, even if it has the appearance of taking time away from research.
In the end, it can be really synergistic with formal collaborations and formal
research down the line.

#### I understand you just won a very special award—the American Geophysical
Union’s Global Environmental Change Early Career Award. Can you tell us about
it?

The American Geophysical Union is, I believe, the world's largest earth and
space science society, and it's definitely the society that I consider to be
best aligned with my research program. I'm actually sharing it with Alex
Konings, who earned her master's degree at Duke, also working with professor
Katul; this is personally very satisfying, as I very much admire Alex’s work
and I’m just over the moon to be able to share this with her.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

