Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Shane McCormick E'98

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About
  3. Alumni

President, Martin|Martin  
Denver, Colorado

#### Tell us how you got to Martin|Martin.

After I graduated from Duke with a bachelor's degree in civil engineering, I
completed a master’s degree at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign.
Then I worked for Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, a firm known for landmark
buildings: the Sears Tower and the Hancock Building, in Chicago; the Burj
Dubai; and China’s Jin Mao Tower, among many others.

> "You might recognize the work we’ve done on major sports stadiums around the
> country, including the stadium for the Arizona Diamondbacks and Coors Field,
> in Denver."

I’ve been with Martin/Martin since 2005. Martin|Martin is a civil and
structural engineering and investigations company that was founded in the
1940s. Our main office is in Denver and the company does most of its work in
Colorado, but we also work on national—and sometimes international—projects.
You might recognize the work we’ve done on major sports stadiums around the
country, including the stadium for the Arizona Diamondbacks and Coors Field,
in Denver.

#### Do you have a favorite project that you’ve worked on?

Over the course of my career, I’ve gotten to work on some amazing projects.
Among my favorites is the Frank Gehry

Jay Pritzker Pavilion, Millennium Park. Designed by Frank Gehry

bandshell in Millennium Park, Chicago. And at Martin|Martin, I worked on the
Grant Street Pier in Vancouver, Washington, which is a cable-stayed pedestrian
bridge. That’s probably the project I look back on with the most fondness,
because of how it turned out. It’s visually striking, with its combination of
artistic expression and cutting-edge engineering, and it was part of a
community renewal project there on the waterfront.

Grant Street Pier in Vancouver, Washington

#### Where does your focus now lie, as president of the company?

What I’m currently focused on is answering some of the questions that the
disruptions of the pandemic have surfaced: what will our workplaces look like
in the future? How will we adjust to increased flexibility and remote work
while retaining our company’s culture? How do we grow our other offices across
the country? How do we take advantage of remote working technologies that
allow you to work from anywhere, but also retain focus on specific goals? In
my new role, I have to keep and cultivate an environment where talented people
really want to work.

#### Why did you choose Duke for your undergraduate degree?

I wanted a school with a strong engineering program, but one that was also
strong in the humanities. That initially attracted me to Duke. Then I visited,
in the spring, and it’s hard not to fall in love with Duke in the spring.

> "It’s hard not to fall in love with Duke in the spring."

Duke Engineering offers a high degree of rigor, but the class sizes are
manageable. You have direct access to your professors and you can engage with
them one-on-one. You also have many other schools and departments in the
university that are top-notch, and you can explore paths in the humanities or
investigate your other interests and come out with a very balanced education.

#### How did your time at Duke prepare you for a career in structural
engineering?

I was really able to challenge myself with high-level work. For example, Henri
Gavin and I worked on a number of independent study projects together. In one
project, we developed a two-dimensional structural analysis program and then
used the algorithm in Matlab to perform structural optimization. In other
words, we started with a structure shaped one way, put a load on it, and then
allowed the algorithm to find the most efficient way to carry that load.

That work that really took me to the next level, in terms of learning about
structural engineering. When I applied for an internship at Skidmore Owens and
Merrill, that experiment was what caught the eye of the principal at the
Chicago office.

#### Any words of advice for students entering Duke as first-years?

Students coming to top schools like Duke are very focused on objectives—that’s
how they got where they are, after all. They’re doing exactly what they need
to do to achieve a desired outcome. So, I think the advice I have for students
is this: pay more attention to discovering your passions than to the hoops you
think you need to jump through. Follow your passions and go where they lead
you.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

