

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About

# Thinking BIG: Pratt 2039

Diverse & Inclusive  
Community

Alumni  
Relationships

Industry  
Connections

High-Impact  
RESEARCH

Best-in-Class  
EDUCATION

Physical & Virtual  
Presence

Outstanding  
Work Environment

Global Impact  
& Reputation

In anticipation of our centennial in 2039, the Pratt School of Engineering
conducted an aspirational visioning exercise to identify strategic priorities
for the decades ahead

## Executive Summary

The Pratt 2039 Steering Committee sought and received input from key
stakeholder groups including students, faculty, alumni, staff, leadership
across the university, and representatives from industry. The committee
concentrated on identifying key actions, processes, and initiatives to advance
Pratt’s research enterprise, educational mission, and the culture and societal
impact of the School.

### Themes

The committee’s findings fall broadly into eight themes:

  * High-Impact Research
  * Best-in-Class Educational Experience
  * Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
  * Meaningful Alumni Relationships
  * Industry Connections & Investments
  * An Outstanding Place to Live and Work
  * Our Physical and Virtual Plant
  * Global Impact and Branding

### Principles

We identified multiple interconnections. Most recommendations draw from a
common set of four underlying principles:

  * **Think Big** —Propose bold, actionable initiatives ("Duke Blue Sky
    Ideas")
  * **Seek Interdisciplinarity** —Leverage our position as part of a world-
    class, academically diverse university in both research and education
  * **Reach Outward** —Build outreach and partnerships with alumni and
    industry to increase societal impact
  * **Value Our People** —Nurture a culture of diversity and inclusion;
    provide pathways for careers to flourish

First, the committee received near-unanimous encouragement from all
stakeholders to think big and propose bold, actionable initiatives so that
this community visioning effort is not wasted. Thinking big is inherent to
several recommendations to undertake major research initiatives (e.g., “Duke
Blue Sky Ideas”), extend our emphasis on design and real-world experience
throughout our students’ educational experience, and take bold steps to
increase our connectivity with our alumni and with industry.

A second principle with broad consensus is that Pratt should take full
advantage of our position as a relatively small engineering school within a
great, academically diverse university to enhance our reputation for
interdisciplinarity. This led to recommendations that we increase our emphasis
on interdisciplinary research initiatives and cross-departmental,
multidisciplinary educational experiences.

Third, many stakeholder comments and suggestions reflect a desire for Pratt to
be more outward-facing in the future. This includes both increasing our impact
and enhancing our brand, both locally and globally. Recommendations associated
with increasing Pratt’s broad societal impact include reducing barriers for
faculty exchanges to and from Duke and leveraging connections with our alumni,
outstanding regional institutions and companies, and Pratt’s other strategic
domestic and international partners to increase student internships,
experiential partnerships, and industry collaborations.

Finally, we recognize that the success of any future initiatives will hinge
upon our ability to retain, attract, and recruit students, staff, and faculty
who feel valued and that their careers are continually enhanced by their
experience. This includes ensuring that Pratt builds a culture of diversity,
inclusion, and respect for all community members. It also includes ensuring
that all employees have opportunities for career advancement, for example by
supporting professional development opportunities for staff and developing
stable and attractive career advancement models for non-tenure-track career
research and teaching faculty.

The committee recognizes that the breadth of ideas and initiatives proposed in
its report will require substantial additional effort for prioritization;
however, we are invigorated by the tremendous opportunities for Pratt which
this study identified.

## Methodology

### Charge

The Pratt 2039 Steering Committee was charged in early 2020 by Dean Ravi V.
Bellamkonda and the Engineering Faculty Council (EFC) with leading our
community in an aspirational visioning exercise with the goal of answering two
questions so we can realize our mission of positively impacting society in the
decades ahead:

  * How can we best position Duke Engineering to maximize the long-term
    impacts of our educational programs and research enterprise?
  * Who do we want to be in 2039, as a school and as a community, in service
    to society?

The process was intended to have two phases. In the first, the Pratt 2039
Steering Committee worked with members of our community to think big about
what Duke Engineering could be when we celebrate our centennial in 2039 and to
propose ambitious goals and initiatives that will help us reach that vision.
In Phase 2, we will chart our path toward those goals by creating deliberate
steps including financial modeling and implementation plans.

### Schedule

The committee’s work began in early March 2020. Shortly after the first
meeting, Duke issued university-wide work-from-home requirements for all
faculty and staff and announced that the remainder of the spring semester
would be taught virtually due to the worldwide COVID-19 pandemic. To allow the
faculty to adjust to this new and sudden situation, the group’s work was
temporarily paused. Work resumed in mid-April and progressed through mid-
October, at which time the group delivered its final report to Dean
Bellamkonda and EFC Chair Craig Henriquez. A period of community review
followed, with opportunities for feedback to be shared both online and at
community meetings held through March 2021.

### Committee Approach

The committee outlined a methodology by which they would review data, gain
input, and ultimately determine recommendations. First, the committee received
presentations from school leaders in the areas of education and research.
These presentations provided committee members with baseline data about the
school’s past and current performance and reviewed the leadership’s immediate-
term goals and objectives in these areas. Next, in order to seek ideas and
input from faculty, staff, students, alumni, board members, and other
stakeholders, the group held a series of focus groups. These focus groups were
designed to ensure that representatives from all engineering units and
stakeholder groups had an opportunity to participate in the process. Focus
groups were held with tenure-track faculty, other regular rank faculty,
undergraduate and graduate students, staff, members of Pratt’s Board of
Visitors, and deans of all other Duke Schools. Committee members invited and
received input from colleagues in faculty meetings and individual
conversations. The committee consulted with leaders of the Engineering Alumni
Council (EAC) to better understand the alumni perspective. Finally, the
committee underwent more typical strategic planning activities including
preparing a SWOT (Strengths, Weaknesses Opportunities, Threats) analysis,
participating in a long-term visioning exercise, and identifying broad themes
and specific recommendations for achieving that vision.

## The Committee

Dean Bellamkonda and Craig Henriquez, EFC Chair, formed the Pratt 2039
Steering Committee with input from the Department Chairs. Membership was
intended to be representative across departments, ranks, and fields as well as
gender and background. The Pratt 2039 Steering Committee members included:

  * Joseph Izatt, Chair – Michael J. Fitzpatrick Distinguished Professor of
    Engineering in the Edmund T. School of Engineering
  * Ana Barros – Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School Distinguished Professor of Civil
    and Environmental Engineering
  * Ken Brown – Associate Professor in the Department of Electrical and
    Computer Engineering
  * Warren Grill – Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. Distinguished Professor of Biomedical
    Engineering
  * Lisa Huettel – Professor of the Practice in the Department of Electrical
    and Computer Engineering
  * Christine Payne – Yoh Family Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering
    and Materials Science
  * Guillermo Sapiro – James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Electrical and
    Computer Engineering
  * David Schaad – Professor of the Practice of Civil and Environmental
    Engineering
  * Tatiana Segura – Professor of Biomedical Engineering
  * Michael Zavlanos – Yoh Family Associate Professor of Mechanical
    Engineering and Materials Science

The following Pratt School of Engineering staff members provided invaluable
support to the committee:

  * Susan Bonifield – Senior Associate Dean, Finance and Administration
  * Nick Everage – Executive Assistant to the Dean
  * Deb Wojcik – Managing Director, Graduate Student Programs & Services
  * Pratt Communications Staff

Full report (NetID required) »

## News from Duke Engineering

March 29, 2023 | The News & Observer

### That Selfie You Posted on Instagram? Companies Are Using it in Unethical
Ways

March 28, 2023 | Duke Institute for Brain Sciences

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

View all news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

