

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About

# Diversity, Equity and Inclusion at Duke Engineering

The Duke University Pratt School of Engineering is committed to being a
diverse community of people with ideas and approaches that make a difference
locally, nationally and globally

At the core of our diversity philosophy is a belief that multicultural
learning is truly an integral part of our personal, social and moral growth—as
individuals and as a university.

This is particularly true for engineers, who are charged with developing
solutions, processes and products for all people. As a result, we embrace the
vision that diversity in the classroom and in the laboratory generates better
learning outcomes, better citizens, and better engineers.

Duke Engineering is proud to be part of the American Society for Engineering
Education’s (ASEE) Deans Diversity Initiative. We have earned the Bronze Award
from the ASEE Diversity Recognition Program, and its recommendation as a
national exemplar.

* * *

## Mission

The Pratt School of Engineering DEIC Mission is to include and engage the rich
diversity of students, staff, faculty, administrators, and community partners
in all facets of our work as a school. To achieve this, we are committed to:

  1. Building an environment where all individuals are included, supported, and feel valued
  2. Ensuring that our community is composed of a broad spectrum of identities through recruitment, retention, and ongoing professional development
  3. Designing curricula and pedagogies that promote cultural awareness and intercultural competence
  4. Developing policies, resources, and communication structures and processes that inform and enable a diverse, inclusive, and equitable organization
  5. Understanding and tracking our impact through rigorous assessment of our short- and long-term goals and our overall community climate

## Vision

The Pratt School of Engineering DEIC Vision is to be a leader in inclusive
excellence by innovating, implementing, and facilitating policies, practices
and programs across affinity groups, departments, the school, university
partners, and the greater community to ensure that all members of our
community feel that they belong, are engaged, and are empowered.

Duke University's Statement of Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion »

* * *

## Newsletter

Sent monthly from the Duke Engineering Office of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
to the Pratt School of Engineering community.

### Archive

  * March 2023
  * February 2023
  * January 2023
  * December 2022
  * November 2022
  * October 2022
  * September 2022
  * August 2022
  * July 2022
  * June 2022
  * May 2022
  * April 2022

* * *

## Committee on Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community

Our standing Committee on Diversity, Equity Inclusion and Community is a
representative developing and implementing a collaborative, comprehensive
strategy to continue building a strong, thriving community.

The committee develops the strategic priorities for diversity and inclusion
with measurable outcomes.

Members serve as liaisons to teams and units.

More about the committee »

* * *

## Engineering Deans Diversity Initiative

Duke Engineering is proud to be part of the American Society for Engineering
Education’s (ASEE) Engineering Deans Diversity Initiative, a commitment to
providing educational experiences that are inclusive and prevent
marginalization of any groups of people because of visible or invisible
differences.

We have earned the Bronze Award from the ASEE Diversity Recognition Program,
and its recommendation as an exemplary institution.

More about the Engineering Deans Diversity Initiative »

## Contact

### Nan Jokerst

**Associate Dean, Faculty Affairs and Community Engagement**

919-660-5503

nan.jokerst@duke.edu

### Karis Boyd-Sinkler

**Director of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion in Engineering**

919-660-2939

karis.boydsinkler@duke.edu

### Quiana Tyson

**Assistant Director, DEI Programs and Initiatives**

919-660-5263

quiana.morton@duke.edu

## Duke Resources

### For the Pratt Community

  * Committee on Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
  * Accommodations for Disabilities
  * Resources for Duke Students
  * Maclin Endowment Fund
  * Department DEIC Efforts:
    * Duke Electrical & Computer Engineering (ECE)
    * Duke Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science (MEMS)

  * Duke's Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion
  * Office for Institutional Equity (OIE)
  * Resources for Understanding and Confronting Racism and Its Impact ( _from
    OIE_ )
  * Duke Center for Sexual & Gender Diversity
  * Faculty Academic Council Diversity Task Force Report (PDF)

### To Report a Complaint or Concern

  * Report an Incident

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

