

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About

# News

Featured

March 20, 2023

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

Stitching videos from dozens of cameras together provides unique 3D view of
macroscopic experiments with microscopic detail

April 21, 2021

### Gong Wins ARO Young Investigator Award to Secure Machine Learning

Award will support efforts to build machine learning methods that are provably
secure against multiple types of attacks

April 21, 2021

### Pursuing Research: 2021 Pratt Fellows

A glimpse into the projects pursued by three Pratt Undergraduate Research
Fellows and the lessons provided by their experience

April 21, 2021

### Responding to the Chauvin Trial

A message to the Pratt Community from Dean Ravi V. Bellamkonda, Associate Dean
Nan Jokerst and Karis Boyd-Sinkler, Director of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion

April 19, 2021

### Gaby Katul: Modeling Non-Linear Dynamics from Flowing Fluids to Falling
Empires

New Duke Engineering professor Gaby Katul uses the latest insights into non-
linear dynamics to engineer resilience into systems ranging from Watersheds to
governments

April 15, 2021

### AI Pinpoints Local Pollution Hotspots Using Satellite Images

Technique could find sources of heavy air pollution and allow researchers to
better study its effects on human health and make socially just policy
decisions

April 15, 2021

### Andrew Jones III: Expanding Access to Safe, Clean Water

New faculty member Andrew Jones III blends environmental engineering and
policy analysis, aiming to improve water quality and advance water equity

April 15, 2021

### Meet the Winners of the 2021 Bass Connections Student Research Awards

Three biomedical engineering students will recieve support from the Bass
Connections program to pursue innovative research projects

April 14, 2021

### Self-Assembling Nanofibers Prevent Damage from Inflammation

Nanomaterials strategically activate the immune system to fight inflammation
as effectively as current standard therapeutics

April 13, 2021 | Duke Graduate School

### PhD Student Investigating Potential Cause of Mysterious Kidney Disease

Jake Ulrich uses analytical chemistry techniques to study organic contaminants
in water systems

April 12, 2021 | FDIC

### FDIC and Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering Announce Strategic
Partnership to Promote Innovation

Agreement provides a roadmap for the FDIC’s Tech Lab and Duke faculty and
students to collaborate in a number of areas focused on innovation, including
artificial intelligence, risk management, quantitative research and
cybersecurity

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * …
  * 38
  * 39
  * 40
  * 41
  * 42
  * 43
  * 44
  * 45
  * 46
  * …
  * next ›
  * last »

Search news archives

## Publications

### Duke Engineering Magazine

Enjoy long-form deep dives into stories of Duke Engineering's high-impact
research.

Read Duke Engineering Magazine »

### DukEngineer Magazine

Student-written since the 1940s.

Read current and back issues of DukEngineer »

**Browse all our** Publications »

## Media Coverage

News & Observer | March 29, 2023

### That Selfie You Posted on Instagram? Companies Are Using It in Unethical
Ways

Fox News | March 29, 2023

### Musk's proposed AI pause means China would 'race' past US with 'most
powerful' tech, expert says

TDWI | March 23, 2023

### Leveraging the Power of Digital Twins in Medicine and Business

See more media coverage

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

