

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About

# News

Featured

March 20, 2023

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

Stitching videos from dozens of cameras together provides unique 3D view of
macroscopic experiments with microscopic detail

February 20, 2023 | Duke Today

### Turkey’s Fate Was Sealed by Failures – Both Structural and Political,
Experts Say

CEE Professor Henri Gavin joins campus colleagues to look look at the politics
and engineering of earthquake damage

February 17, 2023 | Duke Innovation & Entrepreneurship

### Five Questions With Hannah Wilen '20, Co-Founder of Capd Period

The 2020 Duke ECE graduate's startup makes the first menstrual cup that can be
emptied without removing. Wilen recently won a $40K innovation prize to back
the distribution of 10,000 CapdCups in Uganda

February 13, 2023

### Segura Named Co-Director of the Duke Center for Biomolecular and Tissue
Engineering

The biomedical engineer specializes in using biomaterials to help the body
heal damaged tissue, will lead the center with Charles Gersbach

February 10, 2023

### Katul Elected a Fellow of the National Academy of Engineering

Tightly tying Duke’s environment and engineering schools together for three
decades, Katul was recognized for his advances in eco-hydrology and
environmental fluid mechanics

February 10, 2023

### Producing Something Unusual for a Digital Assets Conference: Meaningful
Discussion

The first Digital Assets @ Duke conference was a first-of-its-kind gathering
of engineers, financiers, investors and public policy experts

February 08, 2023 | Duke Today

### Daubechies Wins One of the Most Prestigious Awards in Mathematics

Along with the Abel Prize and the Fields Medal, the Wolf Prize is considered
one of the most prestigious awards in mathematics.

February 07, 2023

### Physics Reveals Some Obstacles Aren’t Obstacles At All

Researchers find that cataracts and turbulence that seem to slow water’s flow
actually facilitate it

February 06, 2023

### Warren Grill Named Editor in Chief of the Journal of Neural Engineering

The biomedical engineer will work to increase the journal’s profile within the
neurosciences communities

February 06, 2023

### Synthetic Compartments Stop Pathogens from Sharing Antibiotic Resistance
Genes

Emerging field of synthetic condensates isolates or traps together
biomolecules to control cellular processes

February 06, 2023 | Duke Today

### Coding Goes Global: How One Duke Student Took His Skills Home to Ghana

Third-year ECE/CS student Nathaniel Wullar liked Duke's Code+ program so much
he recreated it for students in Ghana

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * 1
  * 2
  * 3
  * 4
  * 5
  * 6
  * 7
  * 8
  * 9
  * …
  * next ›
  * last »

Search news archives

## Publications

### Duke Engineering Magazine

Enjoy long-form deep dives into stories of Duke Engineering's high-impact
research.

Read Duke Engineering Magazine »

### DukEngineer Magazine

Student-written since the 1940s.

Read current and back issues of DukEngineer »

**Browse all our** Publications »

## Media Coverage

News & Observer | March 29, 2023

### That Selfie You Posted on Instagram? Companies Are Using It in Unethical
Ways

Fox News | March 29, 2023

### Musk's proposed AI pause means China would 'race' past US with 'most
powerful' tech, expert says

TDWI | March 23, 2023

### Leveraging the Power of Digital Twins in Medicine and Business

See more media coverage

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

