

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About

# News

Featured

March 20, 2023

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

Stitching videos from dozens of cameras together provides unique 3D view of
macroscopic experiments with microscopic detail

August 27, 2015

### Randles Named Finalist for Supercomputing’s Top Honor

Amanda Randles, a new assistant professor in biomedical engineering at Duke
University, has been named one of five finalists for this year’s Gordon Bell
Prize—the top honor in the field of supercomputing.

August 27, 2015

### Improving Energy Storage With a Cue From Nature

Adrian Bejan, the J.A. Jones Professor of Mechanical Engineering, recently had
a publication selected as the Editor’s Choice in the Journal of Applied
Physics.

August 26, 2015

### In the Classroom, a Decade of Lessons from Hurricane Katrina

In the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina 10 years ago, engineering professor
David Schaad built a new course that has changed and endured for a decade.

August 25, 2015

### Researchers Aim to Develop New Techniques for Creating High-Temperature
Alloys

A new grant seeking to develop new techniques for creating high-temperature
materials is taking advantage of Duke University’s expertise in computational
materials genomics—the computer modeling of novel materials to identify which
might have desirable properties.

August 25, 2015

### Ramanujam Awarded Two Grants to Help Screen for Cervical Cancer in Africa

Nimmi Ramanujam has been awarded two National Institutes of Health (NIH) RO1
grants to work with industry and non-profit partners to develop strategies for
wide-scale screening for cervical cancer in East Africa.

August 24, 2015

### Lighting Up Plants’ Metabolisms for a Better Energy Future

New grant will use tagged nanoprobes for monitoring plants’ behavior to help
researchers optimize biofuel production

August 18, 2015

### Setting Ground Rules for Nanotechnology Research

Two new projects set the stage for nanotechnology research to move into Big
Data

August 17, 2015

### Dancing Droplets Launch Themselves from Thin Fibers

Droplets flung by hydrophobic material may aid water purification and oil
refining

August 13, 2015

### Helping Siri Hear Through a Cocktail Party

A new sensor developed at Duke University helps computers separate overlapping
sounds.

August 12, 2015

### Sharrin Manor: My Bass Connections Pathway

Sharrin Manor ECE'16 participated in the Bass Connections Project Team "The
University as a Laboratory for Smart Grid Data Analytics."

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * …
  * 152
  * 153
  * 154
  * 155
  * 156
  * 157
  * 158
  * 159
  * 160
  * …
  * next ›
  * last »

Search news archives

## Publications

### Duke Engineering Magazine

Enjoy long-form deep dives into stories of Duke Engineering's high-impact
research.

Read Duke Engineering Magazine »

### DukEngineer Magazine

Student-written since the 1940s.

Read current and back issues of DukEngineer »

**Browse all our** Publications »

## Media Coverage

News & Observer | March 29, 2023

### That Selfie You Posted on Instagram? Companies Are Using It in Unethical
Ways

Fox News | March 29, 2023

### Musk's proposed AI pause means China would 'race' past US with 'most
powerful' tech, expert says

TDWI | March 23, 2023

### Leveraging the Power of Digital Twins in Medicine and Business

See more media coverage

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

