

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About

# News

Featured

March 20, 2023

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

Stitching videos from dozens of cameras together provides unique 3D view of
macroscopic experiments with microscopic detail

March 06, 2020

### Segura Receives Three NIH R01 Grants to Engineer Materials for Brain and
Skin Repair

With more than $6 million in funding, Tatiana Segura will explore how to use
biomaterials to heal damaged brain tissue after stroke and skin tissue after
injury

March 04, 2020

### Women’s History Month: Reflections from Duke Women

Cate Brinson achieved a lot of firsts in her career. She was the first woman
to get a Ph.D. in applied mechanics at the California Institute of Technology.
Still, she wishes for greater parity between men and women who earn
engineering degrees.

March 02, 2020

### Y Combinator Meets Biotech, Life Sciences Companies at Duke

The future of bio companies is for scientists to start their own, Y Combinator
partners said

March 01, 2020

### The Future of Data is Genetic Storage

DNA-based data storage carries one hundred million times more information per
gram than modern disk drives

March 01, 2020

### GREENgineering: Duke Bleeds GREEN

Initiated by Dean Ravi Bellamkonda, GREENgineering is working toward a greener
and more sustainable Pratt School of Engineering

March 01, 2020

### Finding Your Place in Research

Master's students stress the importance of doing homework on research labs
before deciding to join one

March 01, 2020

### Forward with FinTech: Duke’s Newest Engineering Master’s Program

With an increasing number of Pratt graduates entering the financial industry,
the time is ripe for the new Master of Engineering in Financial Technology—or
FinTech—program

March 01, 2020

### Duke Interdisciplinary Social Innovators: Developing a Unique Skillset in
a Nontraditional Setting

DISI brings together small groups of graduate students who are interested in
creating new solutions for pressing social issues

March 01, 2020

### First-Year Students Learn to Thrive

The new zero-credit course 'Thrive' arms first-year students with tools to
seamlessly transition into college, understand one another and realize
resilience as a daily practice

March 01, 2020

### Technology and Sustainability: Student Projects at the Smart Home

Each year, Duke Smart Home residents and club members develop and test a wide
array of new projects and initiatives focused on sustainable living

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * …
  * 62
  * 63
  * 64
  * 65
  * 66
  * 67
  * 68
  * 69
  * 70
  * …
  * next ›
  * last »

Search news archives

## Publications

### Duke Engineering Magazine

Enjoy long-form deep dives into stories of Duke Engineering's high-impact
research.

Read Duke Engineering Magazine »

### DukEngineer Magazine

Student-written since the 1940s.

Read current and back issues of DukEngineer »

**Browse all our** Publications »

## Media Coverage

News & Observer | March 29, 2023

### That Selfie You Posted on Instagram? Companies Are Using It in Unethical
Ways

Fox News | March 29, 2023

### Musk's proposed AI pause means China would 'race' past US with 'most
powerful' tech, expert says

TDWI | March 23, 2023

### Leveraging the Power of Digital Twins in Medicine and Business

See more media coverage

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

