

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About

# News

Featured

March 20, 2023

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

Stitching videos from dozens of cameras together provides unique 3D view of
macroscopic experiments with microscopic detail

November 29, 2021

### Christ Richmond: Developing Tomorrow’s Wireless Protocols

New faculty member Christ Richmond is working to get more value out of limited
frequency spectrum and using AI to improve and secure wireless connectivity

November 23, 2021 | Duke Today

### Duke Science and Technology is 'Accepting the Challenge'

The faculty recruitment and retention effort, called Duke Science and
Technology, will give the university resources to expand core strengths in
Duke’s research, extending to nearly every corner of the university.

November 22, 2021

### Mikhail Nikiforov: Connecting Subcellular Disruptions to Diseases to
Discover Treatments

New faculty member Mikhail Nikiforov studies fundamental biological puzzles
while building bridges between disciplines to see where the pieces he’s
discovered fit

November 22, 2021

### Information Theorists Settle 70-Year-Old Communications Question

Colleagues call Duke mathematical proof ‘stunning achievement’ that could have
broad implications

November 19, 2021

### Duke Engineering Launches ‘Athena’ Center for AI and Edge Computing

The new center’s kickoff event featured a showcase of proposed edge computing
projects

November 19, 2021

### Blake Wilson Receives Top North Carolina Award

Wilson receives the state’s highest civilian honor in recognition of his
pioneering role in developing cochlear implants

November 17, 2021

### “A Joyful Day”: Dedicating the Wilkinson Building

More than 200 well-wishers gathered Saturday, November 13 to celebrate the
opening of Duke Engineering’s new Wilkinson Building

November 17, 2021

### Identifying Exposure Risks from Common Household Chemicals in Durham Homes

$1 million Durham study to examine exposure from chemicals in building
materials and consumer products and evaluate mitigation strategies to reduce
exposures during pregnancy

November 16, 2021

### Six Duke Engineers Named to Global Highly Cited List

Annual Clarivate Analytics list includes 38 Duke researchers

November 16, 2021 | Bass Connections

### Duke Undergrad Course in Robotics Gets Reboot with Help of Engineering
Doctoral Student

Through a Bass Connections Collaborative Project Expedition in Summer 2021,
Siobhan Oca worked with Genevieve Lipp and Sophia Santillan to design ME 490:
Introduction to Robotics, an undergraduate course that introduces students to
the basic computational concepts.

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * …
  * 25
  * 26
  * 27
  * 28
  * 29
  * 30
  * 31
  * 32
  * 33
  * …
  * next ›
  * last »

Search news archives

## Publications

### Duke Engineering Magazine

Enjoy long-form deep dives into stories of Duke Engineering's high-impact
research.

Read Duke Engineering Magazine »

### DukEngineer Magazine

Student-written since the 1940s.

Read current and back issues of DukEngineer »

**Browse all our** Publications »

## Media Coverage

News & Observer | March 29, 2023

### That Selfie You Posted on Instagram? Companies Are Using It in Unethical
Ways

Fox News | March 29, 2023

### Musk's proposed AI pause means China would 'race' past US with 'most
powerful' tech, expert says

TDWI | March 23, 2023

### Leveraging the Power of Digital Twins in Medicine and Business

See more media coverage

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

