

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About

# News

Featured

March 20, 2023

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

Stitching videos from dozens of cameras together provides unique 3D view of
macroscopic experiments with microscopic detail

July 22, 2021 | Oak Ridge National Laboratory

### Buzz About Thermoelectrics Heats Up With Promising New Magnesium-Based
Materials

Researchers have gained new fundamental insights into two magnesium-based
materials that have the potential to significantly outperform traditional
thermoelectric designs

July 21, 2021 | Duke Today

### Duke Engineering Student Wins Clean Energy Prize

CEE PhD student Michael Valerino's $10,000 award will support new data-driven
platform to reduce solar energy losses caused by dust

July 20, 2021

### Morales Named Executive Director of Duke’s Master of Engineering
Management Program

An executive-in-residence with the program since 2017, Morales wants to
deliver a transformative student experience underpinned by the program’s
“Professionalism and Five Principles"

July 19, 2021 | Duke Health

### Duke Employee's Art Reflects Managing His Bi-Polar Disorder

Cole Klovski III shares how his art, which was recently featured in the Arts &
Health Galleries at Duke University Hospital, helps him manage bi-polar
disorder

July 19, 2021 | Duke Government Relations

### Investing in Water and Sanitation Infrastructure With Equity in Mind

Duke experts discuss the role of environmental justice in access to affordable
and sustainable water and sanitation

July 15, 2021

### New Undergrad Certificate Offers Experience in Materials Science and
Engineering

Duke’s newest undergraduate certificate program covers fundamentals at the
intersection of physics, chemistry and engineering

July 12, 2021

### Xilis Raises $70 Million Series A Financing to Advance Diagnostic and Drug
Discovery

The financing will also support a development platform leveraging proprietary
MicroOrganoSphere™ technology

July 08, 2021 | Duke MEDx

### Thexa Technologies: Using Cutting Edge Innovation to Improve Sanitation
Health Practices

This new company turned Duke pilot funding into an entrepreneurial opportunity
with Raleigh-Durham International Airport (RDU)

June 29, 2021

### Marvian Wins National Science Foundation CAREER Award

Prestigious five-year award will help develop a fundamental understanding of
quantum mechanical phenomena such as quantum chaos and quantum thermodynamics

June 28, 2021

### Veveakis Wins National Science Foundation CAREER Award

Prestigious five-year award will help uncover the hidden warning signs of
impending geological disasters

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * …
  * 33
  * 34
  * 35
  * 36
  * 37
  * 38
  * 39
  * 40
  * 41
  * …
  * next ›
  * last »

Search news archives

## Publications

### Duke Engineering Magazine

Enjoy long-form deep dives into stories of Duke Engineering's high-impact
research.

Read Duke Engineering Magazine »

### DukEngineer Magazine

Student-written since the 1940s.

Read current and back issues of DukEngineer »

**Browse all our** Publications »

## Media Coverage

News & Observer | March 29, 2023

### That Selfie You Posted on Instagram? Companies Are Using It in Unethical
Ways

Fox News | March 29, 2023

### Musk's proposed AI pause means China would 'race' past US with 'most
powerful' tech, expert says

TDWI | March 23, 2023

### Leveraging the Power of Digital Twins in Medicine and Business

See more media coverage

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

