

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About

# News

Featured

March 20, 2023

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

Stitching videos from dozens of cameras together provides unique 3D view of
macroscopic experiments with microscopic detail

March 27, 2018

### Natasha Litchinitser: Structuring Materials to Control Light

New faculty member Natasha Litchinitser brings expertise in engineering
materials to manipulate visible light waves to Duke’s pioneering metamaterials
group

March 26, 2018

### Beyond Materials: From Invisibility Cloaks to Satellite Communications

By Ken Kingery

March 20, 2018

### Student-produced Performance Illuminates Links Between Energy, Technology
and the Body

A Bass Connections team explores and provokes deeper questioning of energy use

March 20, 2018

### What's in the Water?

Ph.D. student William Gerhard studies the organisms in large ships' ballast
tanks

March 19, 2018

### Modified Biomaterials Perform Orderly Self-Assembly in Response to
Temperature Cues

Using post-translational modification, researchers were able to create unique
biomaterials with programmable behavior

March 19, 2018

### Rubinstein Named 2018 Bingham Medalist of the Society of Rheology

Michael Rubinstein recognized for advancing fundamental understanding of
complex fluid flows

March 15, 2018

### Duke Names Engineering Quadrangle in Honor of Thomas and Susan Harrington

The central quadrangle at the Pratt School of Engineering has been named the
“Harrington Engineering Quadrangle” in honor of Thomas E. Harrington E’66 and
Susan C. Harrington

March 13, 2018

### Inaugural Baquerizo Innovation Grant Recipients Named

Student inventors of devices to safely move hospital patients and to diagnose
eye diseases won the first BIG grants – a $20,000 program that supports Duke
Engineering undergraduate entrepreneurship

March 08, 2018

### Tarokh Joins Fields Institute for Research in Mathematical Sciences
Scientific Advisory Panel

Vahid Tarokh has joined the Scientific Advisory Panel for the Fields Institute
for Research in Mathematical Sciences

March 07, 2018

### Duke Students Advance to Finals in $7 Million Ocean Discovery XPRIZE
Competition

After years of work from hundreds of students, the Duke Ocean XPRIZE team has
qualified for the final round of competition aimed at autonomously mapping the
ocean floor

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * …
  * 106
  * 107
  * 108
  * 109
  * 110
  * 111
  * 112
  * 113
  * 114
  * …
  * next ›
  * last »

Search news archives

## Publications

### Duke Engineering Magazine

Enjoy long-form deep dives into stories of Duke Engineering's high-impact
research.

Read Duke Engineering Magazine »

### DukEngineer Magazine

Student-written since the 1940s.

Read current and back issues of DukEngineer »

**Browse all our** Publications »

## Media Coverage

News & Observer | March 29, 2023

### That Selfie You Posted on Instagram? Companies Are Using It in Unethical
Ways

Fox News | March 29, 2023

### Musk's proposed AI pause means China would 'race' past US with 'most
powerful' tech, expert says

TDWI | March 23, 2023

### Leveraging the Power of Digital Twins in Medicine and Business

See more media coverage

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

