

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About

# News

Featured

March 20, 2023

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

Stitching videos from dozens of cameras together provides unique 3D view of
macroscopic experiments with microscopic detail

August 05, 2021

### Borsuk Appointed to U.S. EPA Science Advisory Board

Mark Borsuk will use his wealth of experience and knowledge on assessing
environmental risk to help guide the agency's programs and plans

August 04, 2021

### Robotic Scanner Automates Diagnostic Imaging in the Eye

By removing the need for highly trained technicians, the imaging tool could
make it easier to diagnose eye diseases outside of specialized clinics

August 04, 2021

### Duke Professors to Lead Nationwide Effort to Diversify Participation in
Computing

New $10 million grant looks to increase computing entry, retention and degree
completion rates of students from historically underrepresented groups

August 03, 2021 | Duke Center for Advanced Genomic Technologies

### New Mice Enable CRISPR-based Epigenome Editing in Living Animals

Researchers have developed two new transgenic mouse lines that will enable
broad studies into gene regulation

August 02, 2021 | Duke Translation and Commercialization

### Tyrata Automated Tire Monitoring Safely Extends Bus Tire Life by 12%

GoDurham bus system saves $1,000 annually per vehicle with Tyrata’s
IntelliTread tire monitoring system

August 02, 2021

### ‘Network of Networks’ to Advance International Efforts for Sustainable
Materials

Duke-led INFRAMES initiative will connect researchers across fields and
nations to build the collaborations and resources needed to study the
sustainability of tomorrow’s materials

July 29, 2021 | Duke Today

### NSF Launches Artificial Intelligence Center at Duke

The new $20 Million, 5-Year effort led by Yiran Chen aims to improve mobile
systems and networks with AI

July 27, 2021

### Setting Boundaries Helps Machine Learning Find One-in-a-Trillion Solutions

New “neural-adjoint” machine learning method can help researchers find optimal
solutions in extremely large design spaces such as dielectric metamaterials
for communications

July 26, 2021 | Center for International and Global Studies

### An Exciting Step Towards a Shared Research-Policy Agenda in "Artisanal and
Small-scale Gold Mining"

Stakeholders from academia, NGOs, industry, government, and international
organizations convene to identify the most pressing questions in the ASGM
sector

July 26, 2021

### Catching Waves

Duke ECE’s Steven Cummer, the William H. Younger Distinguished Professor of
Engineering, discusses new metamaterials research in this Q&A– and explains
why invisibility paint is not on the horizon

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * …
  * 32
  * 33
  * 34
  * 35
  * 36
  * 37
  * 38
  * 39
  * 40
  * …
  * next ›
  * last »

Search news archives

## Publications

### Duke Engineering Magazine

Enjoy long-form deep dives into stories of Duke Engineering's high-impact
research.

Read Duke Engineering Magazine »

### DukEngineer Magazine

Student-written since the 1940s.

Read current and back issues of DukEngineer »

**Browse all our** Publications »

## Media Coverage

News & Observer | March 29, 2023

### That Selfie You Posted on Instagram? Companies Are Using It in Unethical
Ways

Fox News | March 29, 2023

### Musk's proposed AI pause means China would 'race' past US with 'most
powerful' tech, expert says

TDWI | March 23, 2023

### Leveraging the Power of Digital Twins in Medicine and Business

See more media coverage

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

