

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About

# News

Featured

March 20, 2023

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

Stitching videos from dozens of cameras together provides unique 3D view of
macroscopic experiments with microscopic detail

February 24, 2021

### Strengthened by Chaos, New Super-Hard Materials Will Stir Steel Together

A US Department of Defense project led by Duke will create AI tools to design
recipes for new materials tailored to super-hard, high-temperature
applications

February 19, 2021

### Diversifying Computer Science, One Cohort at a Time

Professional development program provides expert training in identity-
inclusive topics to improve computing diversity, equity and inclusion

February 18, 2021

### The Intersection of Electrical Engineering and Materials Design

In this Q&A, professor Adrienne Stiff-Roberts explains how electrical
engineering and materials research intersect, and talks about the
multidisciplinary approach that makes Duke special

February 16, 2021

### Bellamkonda Named Provost at Emory; Glass to Serve as Interim Dean

Ravi Bellamkonda, the dean of the Pratt School of Engineering since 2016, will
depart Duke in June to serve as the provost and executive vice president at
Emory

February 16, 2021

### Why Virtual Conferences Are Here to Stay

As Duke community members gain experience with virtual conferences, learn why
they feel they’re here to stay

February 15, 2021

### Breaking Boards and Smashing Goals: How Taekwon-Do Enhanced My
Professional Journey

Learning this martial art have taught Ricky Hollenbach about goal setting,
discipline, and more that he applies to earning a PhD in Mechanical
Engineering

February 10, 2021

### Walker Appointed to North Carolina Board of Science, Technology and
Innovation

Appointed by Governor Cooper, Bill Walker will bring a experience from both
industry and academia to the board focused on accelerating technology
companies

February 09, 2021

### Capturing Free-Space Optical Light for High-Speed WiFi

Plasmonic speed enhancements previously constrained to nanoscale phenomena are
replicated on macroscopic devices

February 09, 2021

### Wills Wins National Science Foundation CAREER Award

Prestigious five-year award will help develop fundamental building blocks
enabling more developers to take advantage of hardware-accelerated systems

February 08, 2021

### Adaptive Design Takes Off on Runway of Dreams

Engineering meets innovation and accessibility in virtual adaptive fashion
show featuring people with disabilities

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * …
  * 42
  * 43
  * 44
  * 45
  * 46
  * 47
  * 48
  * 49
  * 50
  * …
  * next ›
  * last »

Search news archives

## Publications

### Duke Engineering Magazine

Enjoy long-form deep dives into stories of Duke Engineering's high-impact
research.

Read Duke Engineering Magazine »

### DukEngineer Magazine

Student-written since the 1940s.

Read current and back issues of DukEngineer »

**Browse all our** Publications »

## Media Coverage

News & Observer | March 29, 2023

### That Selfie You Posted on Instagram? Companies Are Using It in Unethical
Ways

Fox News | March 29, 2023

### Musk's proposed AI pause means China would 'race' past US with 'most
powerful' tech, expert says

TDWI | March 23, 2023

### Leveraging the Power of Digital Twins in Medicine and Business

See more media coverage

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

