

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About

# News

Featured

March 20, 2023

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

Stitching videos from dozens of cameras together provides unique 3D view of
macroscopic experiments with microscopic detail

December 07, 2021

### Solutions for Seedling Sunburn, Runaway Trash Bins and Other Woes

First-year design teams develop solutions for real clients with real problems,
like crop loss and decreased mobility

December 07, 2021

### Mapping Complex Variability onto Intricate Virtual Models

String of papers shows how advanced modeling algorithms can enable and improve
statistical models for individualized heart care, biomedical devices,
transcranial magnetic stimulation and more

December 03, 2021

### Rapid Test Identifies Antibody Effectiveness Against COVID-19 Variants

Test could measure patient immunity against multiple COVID-19 variants such as
Omicron and Delta at once and inform which synthetic monoclonal antibody to
use for treatments

December 02, 2021 | Duke University

### Inside Class'room' Learning

This year, across Duke University, safety came first. Professors had to
envision new learning methods, those that drew on the intimacies of a shared
environment but allowed for interactions amid masking, distance and testing

December 02, 2021

### KEEN Teaching: Duke Engineering Faculty Engage with National Education
Network

Faculty are creating impactful educational experiences grounded in problem-
based learning and an entrepreneurial mindset

December 01, 2021

### Eye Imaging Technology Breaks Through Skin by Crossing Beams

New approach to optical coherence tomography increases its depth of view in
biological tissues

December 01, 2021 | Duke Today

### Daily and Samanez-Larkin to Lead Faculty Quadex Engagement

A commitment to student-faculty engagement and undergraduate intellectual
exploration

November 30, 2021

### High-Speed Holography of Cells Spots Physical Beacons of Disease

Measuring the variability of thickness within thousands of cells per minute
spots physical signs of cancer and carcinogenic exposure

November 30, 2021 | Duke MEDx News

### Barr-Spach Scholarships Support Engineering Study by Duke Medical Students

Two med students are pursuing Duke's Artificial Intelligence for Product
Innovation Master of Engineering. A resident physician is completing an MS in
Biomedical Engineering.

November 29, 2021

### Cross-Training Graduate Students to Develop Smart Robotic Surgical
Instruments

Duke’s new NSF Research Traineeship Program brings engineers and computer
scientists into the operating room to solve unmet surgical challenges

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * …
  * 24
  * 25
  * 26
  * 27
  * 28
  * 29
  * 30
  * 31
  * 32
  * …
  * next ›
  * last »

Search news archives

## Publications

### Duke Engineering Magazine

Enjoy long-form deep dives into stories of Duke Engineering's high-impact
research.

Read Duke Engineering Magazine »

### DukEngineer Magazine

Student-written since the 1940s.

Read current and back issues of DukEngineer »

**Browse all our** Publications »

## Media Coverage

News & Observer | March 29, 2023

### That Selfie You Posted on Instagram? Companies Are Using It in Unethical
Ways

Fox News | March 29, 2023

### Musk's proposed AI pause means China would 'race' past US with 'most
powerful' tech, expert says

TDWI | March 23, 2023

### Leveraging the Power of Digital Twins in Medicine and Business

See more media coverage

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

