

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About

# News

Featured

March 20, 2023

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

Stitching videos from dozens of cameras together provides unique 3D view of
macroscopic experiments with microscopic detail

June 12, 2019

### Aberra Awarded Poster Prize at Carolina Neurostimulation Conference

PhD student Aman Aberra was recognized for his research surrounding
transcranial magnetic stimulation

June 12, 2019

### Building Dictionaries for Machine Learning from Sparse Data

Guillermo Sapiro’s paper laying the foundations of modern machine learning
earns a “Test of Time” award 10 years after its publication

June 12, 2019

### Duke Engineering hosts 'Talk & Tour' for 70 Women in STEM Internship
Program

13 Duke faculty and staff members showed nearly 70 interns, as well as
students and visiting scholars around Duke's Shared Materials Instrumentation
Facility (SMIF).

June 11, 2019

### By Land, By Water and By Air

Mechanical Engineering students in EGR 190: Applied Engineering Design, built
remote controlled amphibious all-terrain vehicles to complete an obstacle
course that ranged across Duke Gardens

June 10, 2019

### Glass Named Senior Associate Dean for Education & Learning Innovation at
Duke Engineering

Glass will work to advance the school’s educational mission and enhance the
student experience by providing coordinated oversight and strategic direction
for its broad suite of undergraduate and master’s programs

June 10, 2019

### Duke Engineering Commits to Sustainability

A new effort called GREENgineering has made significant strides toward the
goal of a more sustainable Duke Engineering

June 06, 2019

### Pajic, Zavlanos Part of the New Air Force Center of Excellence

New center will focus on assured autonomy in contested environments for a wide
variety of Air Force systems

May 30, 2019

### A Little Help From Civilians

Duke's new interdisciplinary Hacking for Defense class invites students and
alumni to work on problems faced by the military

May 28, 2019

### Biomedical Engineering Grad Student Receives Wrenn Fellowship

Will Huffman received the Wrenn Graduate Fellowship, allowing him to conduct
research surrounding the diagnosis and treatment of Alzheimer's disease

May 24, 2019

### Girls Sample STEM at Duke University

Hands-on workshops and chats with role models drew more than 140 future female
scientists, engineers, technologists, and mathematicians to second annual
Girls STEM Day

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * …
  * 79
  * 80
  * 81
  * 82
  * 83
  * 84
  * 85
  * 86
  * 87
  * …
  * next ›
  * last »

Search news archives

## Publications

### Duke Engineering Magazine

Enjoy long-form deep dives into stories of Duke Engineering's high-impact
research.

Read Duke Engineering Magazine »

### DukEngineer Magazine

Student-written since the 1940s.

Read current and back issues of DukEngineer »

**Browse all our** Publications »

## Media Coverage

News & Observer | March 29, 2023

### That Selfie You Posted on Instagram? Companies Are Using It in Unethical
Ways

Fox News | March 29, 2023

### Musk's proposed AI pause means China would 'race' past US with 'most
powerful' tech, expert says

TDWI | March 23, 2023

### Leveraging the Power of Digital Twins in Medicine and Business

See more media coverage

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

