

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About

# News

Featured

March 20, 2023

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

Stitching videos from dozens of cameras together provides unique 3D view of
macroscopic experiments with microscopic detail

June 27, 2022

### Five Duke Engineering PhD Students Named Burroughs Wellcome Fund Fellows

Fellowships support professional development for research in biological
sciences, climate change and human health

June 24, 2022

### Chakrabarty Appointed to DARPA Microsystems Exploratory Council

Chakrabarty brings expertise in 3D integration of heterogeneous technologies
and hardware security, AI accelerators and domain customization to the council

June 22, 2022

###  Remembering Duke Engineering's Senol Utku

The professor of civil engineering was a pioneer in computational modeling and
computer-based control of structures

June 21, 2022

### Tania Roy: Building High-Energy Space Electronics and Brain-Like AI
Hardware

New faculty member Tania Roy brings a research portfolio that complements
existing strengths within Duke’s Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering

June 13, 2022 | Duke Today

### At Duke, Sheryl Sandberg Meets with DTech Scholars

Sandberg met with DTech and Goldberg Scholars in a discussion about her career
and women's leadership in the tech industry

June 12, 2022 | HiPEAC Blog

### Duke ECE's Hai "Helen" Li: Machine Learning Should Consider Vertical
Integration

The HiPEAC 2022 keynote speaker discusses the fascinating – and now ubiquitous
– topic of machine learning

June 09, 2022

### Glimpses of Quantum Computing Phase Changes Show Researchers the Tipping
Point

Tuning a quantum computer’s measurement rate provides hints of quantum phase
transition

June 08, 2022 | Carnegie Climate Governance Initiative (C2G) Blog

### Climate Engineering: Would Solar radiation Modification Increase or
Decrease Overall Risk?

Duke risk engineers write that a consideration in deciding whether to pursue
solar radiation modification to offset global warming should be a comparison
of climate risk reduction against the severity of any countervailing risks

June 06, 2022

### Color-Changing Mouse Model Allows Researchers to Non-Invasively Study Deep
Tissues

Changing the color of mouse tissue helps scientists isolate and remove
background noise to improve imaging

June 03, 2022 | The Economic Times

### The Building Blocks of Transformational Leadership: An Interview With
Duke's Sanyin Siang

Sanyin Siang E'96, is a respected executive coach and an adjunct associate
professor in Duke's Master of Engineering Management program.

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * …
  * 11
  * 12
  * 13
  * 14
  * 15
  * 16
  * 17
  * 18
  * 19
  * …
  * next ›
  * last »

Search news archives

## Publications

### Duke Engineering Magazine

Enjoy long-form deep dives into stories of Duke Engineering's high-impact
research.

Read Duke Engineering Magazine »

### DukEngineer Magazine

Student-written since the 1940s.

Read current and back issues of DukEngineer »

**Browse all our** Publications »

## Media Coverage

News & Observer | March 29, 2023

### That Selfie You Posted on Instagram? Companies Are Using It in Unethical
Ways

Fox News | March 29, 2023

### Musk's proposed AI pause means China would 'race' past US with 'most
powerful' tech, expert says

TDWI | March 23, 2023

### Leveraging the Power of Digital Twins in Medicine and Business

See more media coverage

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

