

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About

# News

Featured

March 20, 2023

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

Stitching videos from dozens of cameras together provides unique 3D view of
macroscopic experiments with microscopic detail

January 18, 2022 | New Atlas

### Eco-Friendly Plastics Made From Sugars Boast "Unprecedented" Properties

Pursuing more sustainable alternatives, Duke materials scientist Matt Becker
and University of Birmingham colleagues have produced a new form of plastic
using sugar alcohols

January 14, 2022

### The First AI Breast Cancer Sleuth That Shows Its Work

New AI for mammography scans aims to aid rather than replace human decision-
making

January 13, 2022

### Duke Engineering’s FinTech Program Sends Certificates to Coursera Students
as NFTs

Those who completed a sequence of courses on blockchain received certificates
of completion in an appropriate form—as unique digital tokens

January 13, 2022

### Brinson Named 2022 A.C. Eringen Medalist

The Society of Engineering Science honored Cate Brinson's seminal
contributions in modeling and characterization of polymer nanocomposites,
shape memory alloys

January 12, 2022 | Duke Research Blog

### LowCostomy: the Low-Cost Colostomy Bag for Africa

An EGR 101 project looks to engineer a low-cost colostomy bag for use in
under-resourced Sub-Saharan Africa

January 11, 2022

### Molecular Paddlewheels Propel Sodium Ions Through Next-Generation
Batteries

Insights into the atomistic dynamics of emerging solid-state batteries will
help speed their evolution

January 07, 2022

### Jessica Shah Selected as Pratt Research Fellow

Shah, an undergraduate student in the Musah Lab, will explore how to create
improved models of kidney disease

January 07, 2022

### Simple pH Adjustment May Enable a Preventative COVID-19 Nasal and Throat
Spray

Higher pH makes a common metabolic inhibitor medication practical for nose and
throat spray applications against COVID-19

January 05, 2022

### Jonathan Viventi Receives $7 Million to Engineer Flexible Brain Interfaces

In three separate projects, Jonathan Viventi will explore how to optimize
electrode arrays to improve neuroscience research, enable better neural
prostheses and study epilepsy after brain injuries

December 22, 2021

### The Mystery of the Small Dimensionless Number with a Big Effect

Theory and simulations reveal why seemingly weak effects sometimes play a
strong role in how particles move through the air close to the Earth’s surface

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * …
  * 22
  * 23
  * 24
  * 25
  * 26
  * 27
  * 28
  * 29
  * 30
  * …
  * next ›
  * last »

Search news archives

## Publications

### Duke Engineering Magazine

Enjoy long-form deep dives into stories of Duke Engineering's high-impact
research.

Read Duke Engineering Magazine »

### DukEngineer Magazine

Student-written since the 1940s.

Read current and back issues of DukEngineer »

**Browse all our** Publications »

## Media Coverage

News & Observer | March 29, 2023

### That Selfie You Posted on Instagram? Companies Are Using It in Unethical
Ways

Fox News | March 29, 2023

### Musk's proposed AI pause means China would 'race' past US with 'most
powerful' tech, expert says

TDWI | March 23, 2023

### Leveraging the Power of Digital Twins in Medicine and Business

See more media coverage

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

