

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About

# News

Featured

March 20, 2023

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

Stitching videos from dozens of cameras together provides unique 3D view of
macroscopic experiments with microscopic detail

May 16, 2018

### Electrical and Computer Engineering Graduates Win Accolades

The Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) at Duke conferred
numerous awards and honors upon members of its graduating class during the
2018 commencement weekend, May 11-13.

May 15, 2018

### The Chesterfield Re-Engineered: Collaborative Space for High-Impact
Discovery and Entrepreneurship Opens

Collaborative ties between Duke University’s schools of engineering and
medicine, and between Duke and its hometown, are stronger than ever with the
opening of The Chesterfield.

May 11, 2018

### Duke Engineering Celebrates Class of 2018

Duke Engineering recognized more than 600 undergraduate and graduate
engineering students at a series of ceremonies and celebrations during the
2018 commencement weekend, May 11-13

May 08, 2018

### Marcus Center for Cellular Cures at Duke to Tackle Autism, MS, Stroke

The center will expand upon past and current work at Duke funded by The Marcus
Foundation, including a recent study that used children's own cord blood cells
as an experimental therapy for autism and cerebral palsy

May 04, 2018

### What Happens When a Dolphin Holds Its Breath?

Duke engineers design sensors to investigate the physiological responses of
dolphins during deep dives

May 03, 2018

### Custom Silicon Microparticles Dynamically Reconfigure On Demand

First demonstration of self-assembling and self-disassembling silicon
microparticles could form the basis for designing artificial muscles and
reconfigurable computer systems

May 02, 2018

### Randles Wins 2017 ACM Grace Murray Hopper Award

Award recognizes the development of HARVEY, a massively parallel fluid
dynamics simulation capable of modeling the full human arterial system at
subcellular resolution

May 02, 2018

### BME Design Symposium Highlights Student Projects

Event showcased projects ranging from an early HIV detection test to a
intravesicular device to cool the brain

May 01, 2018

### Dielectric Metamaterial is Dynamically Tuned by Light

Metal-free metamaterial can be swiftly tuned to create changing
electromagnetic effects

April 30, 2018

### Saving Lives in Nepal’s Next Big One

Duke Engineering senior Pratiksha Sharma is leading an effort to install a
nationwide earthquake early warning system in her home country

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * …
  * 101
  * 102
  * 103
  * 104
  * 105
  * 106
  * 107
  * 108
  * 109
  * …
  * next ›
  * last »

Search news archives

## Publications

### Duke Engineering Magazine

Enjoy long-form deep dives into stories of Duke Engineering's high-impact
research.

Read Duke Engineering Magazine »

### DukEngineer Magazine

Student-written since the 1940s.

Read current and back issues of DukEngineer »

**Browse all our** Publications »

## Media Coverage

News & Observer | March 29, 2023

### That Selfie You Posted on Instagram? Companies Are Using It in Unethical
Ways

Fox News | March 29, 2023

### Musk's proposed AI pause means China would 'race' past US with 'most
powerful' tech, expert says

TDWI | March 23, 2023

### Leveraging the Power of Digital Twins in Medicine and Business

See more media coverage

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

