

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About

# News

Featured

March 20, 2023

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

Stitching videos from dozens of cameras together provides unique 3D view of
macroscopic experiments with microscopic detail

December 12, 2013

### Krishnendu Chakrabarty Named a Fellow of the Association for Computing
Machinery

Chakrabarty is a professor of electrical and computer engineering at Duke

December 10, 2013

### Kam Leong Named a Fellow of the National Academy of Inventors

Kam Leong, the James B. Duke professor of biomedical engineering at Duke
University’s Pratt School of Engineering, has been named a fellow of the
National Academy of Inventors (NAI).

December 04, 2013

### DGHI and Pratt Support New Interdisciplinary Studies in Global Health,
Engineering

The funding is part of an initiative to promote interdisciplinary work in
global cancer

November 21, 2013

### Good Timing

Duke-engineered technology optimizes Parkinson’s disease therapy—and launches
a new company

November 20, 2013

### Chakrabarty Receives Humboldt Research Award

Granted by the Humboldt Foundation to outstanding researchers whose
fundamental discoveries have had significant impact

November 13, 2013

### Thurstone Medical Imaging Fellowship Awarded to Duke BME PhD Candidate

The fellowship was endowed by Olaf von Ramm and named in honor of Fritz
Thurstone, a pioneer in the field of diagnostic imaging

November 11, 2013

### Duke Wins $15 Million Grant Renewal to Study Effects of Nanomaterials

How are nanomaterials affecting the environment—and us? With a new grant
renewal, CEINT researchers seek answers

November 08, 2013

### Maccarini Receives 2013 Chandran Award

Paolo Maccarini, Ph.D., received the 2013 Chandran Discretionary Research
Award for his proposal entitled, "A Novel MR-Based Noninvasive Method to
Safely Modulate the Opening of Blood-Brain-Barrier to Enhance Drug Delivery
into Brain Tumors and Target Neurological Diseases."

November 08, 2013

### Congress Members Visit Duke to Experience the Future of Airport Security

Three members of the North Carolina delegation to Congress—Reps. Richard
Hudson (R-NC), George Holding (R-NC), and David Price (D-NC)—visited Duke’s
campus on November 6 to tour research labs and view demonstrations of airport
security research projects happening at Duke.

November 07, 2013

### Wireless Device Converts "Lost" Energy into Electric Power

Using inexpensive materials configured and tuned to capture microwave signals,
Duke researchers have designed a power-harvesting device with efficiency
similar to that of modern solar panels

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * …
  * 172
  * 173
  * 174
  * 175
  * 176
  * 177
  * 178
  * 179
  * 180
  * …
  * next ›
  * last »

Search news archives

## Publications

### Duke Engineering Magazine

Enjoy long-form deep dives into stories of Duke Engineering's high-impact
research.

Read Duke Engineering Magazine »

### DukEngineer Magazine

Student-written since the 1940s.

Read current and back issues of DukEngineer »

**Browse all our** Publications »

## Media Coverage

News & Observer | March 29, 2023

### That Selfie You Posted on Instagram? Companies Are Using It in Unethical
Ways

Fox News | March 29, 2023

### Musk's proposed AI pause means China would 'race' past US with 'most
powerful' tech, expert says

TDWI | March 23, 2023

### Leveraging the Power of Digital Twins in Medicine and Business

See more media coverage

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

