

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About

# Dean's Welcome

Welcome to Duke Engineering!

The Pratt School of Engineering is a highly ranked engineering school whose
community of scholars defines the leading edge of innovation. Set in one of
the world's top research universities, our faculty and students are solving
complex challenges to improve the quality of life for communities locally and
globally—whether by improving human health, working toward more resilient and
sustainable environments, discovering new materials, or advancing novel data
analytics, computing and intelligent systems.

Our award-winning faculty are not only passionate about what they teach but
how they fuel student curiosity and open new horizons for students to explore
inside and outside our classrooms. For example, our signature First-Year
Design Course challenges all Duke Engineering students to develop solutions
for real-world community clients. This experience launches our students on a
four-year journey focused on creative, needs-based design projects to develop
engineering skills. More than 60 percent of our undergraduate students conduct
faculty-mentored research in our labs, while our graduate students routinely
receive national awards celebrating the impact of their research.

In the rich environment of Duke Engineering, students can also discover and
develop their passions for entrepreneurship, global outreach, team leadership,
societal impact and more. Students lead a wide range of clubs focused on
everything from robotics to world health to international infrastructure
development, and pursue study abroad, entrepreneurship training, medical
device design, machine learning and more through co-curricular opportunities
across the university—gaining experiences and skills that prepare them to
become leaders in industry, academia, medicine, and other professional
pursuits.

No matter what inspires you, you’ll find that Duke Engineering is a community
vested in your success. We value the different perspectives and backgrounds
our faculty, staff, and students bring to our community, and strive to empower
each individual on their journey of self-discovery, education and the
application of engineering knowledge to positively impact the world.

In 1984, Duke President Terry Sanford famously described the “outrageous
ambitions” propelling Duke University's rise and rapid advance along the path
of excellence. Our goals for Duke Engineering are very much in this dynamic
Duke spirit. In undergraduate and graduate education, in research, in
entrepreneurship and in service, we’re committed to leading boldly to shape
this technological era by creating an environment that enables our community
to achieve great things for the benefit of society.

You’ll find inspiring examples throughout our website of how our faculty,
graduate students and undergraduates are dreaming big, acting boldly and
making a difference in the world. I hope you’ll enjoy learning more about Duke
Engineering. Contact us if you have any questions.

With best wishes,

  
**Jerome P. Lynch, PhD, F.EMI**  
Vinik Dean of Engineering  
Professor, Civil & Environmental Engineering  
Professor, Electrical & Computer Engineering  
prattdeansoffice@duke.edu

## Recent Dean's News

March 20, 2023

### Duke Engineering-Mentored High School Robotics Team Earns Trip to State
Championship

November 03, 2022 | Duke Today

### Pratt Staff: The Ingredients of a Strong Work Culture

November 01, 2022

### Gavin Named Chair of Duke CEE

October 21, 2022

### Izatt Named Chair of Biomedical Engineering at Duke

October 17, 2022

### Li Named Chair of Electrical & Computer Engineering at Duke

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

