Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Medical Technology Design (MedTech): Master's Degree and Certificate

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Masters

Discover. Design. Deploy.

The global markets for medical devices is growing fast — by $7 billion a year
in the United States alone, by one estimate.

Few universities are as equipped as Duke to deliver best-in-class graduate
education in medical technology design. _Learn why Duke is the leader_

Duke BME offers two options in this exciting and high-impact field:

  * Master of Engineering degree
  * Graduate certificate

Contact admissions »

> " _Duke's advanced medical technology design courses reminded me of the
> impact engineering can make."_
>
> **ALEJANDRO PINO** **, MD** | Pulmonologist and ELECTRICAL ENGINEER

## 3 Reasons Why Duke leads in MedTech design

1\. Innovation is in our DNA

  * First accredited BME major in the United States
  * First real-time 3-D ultrasonic scanner
  * First patented bioabsorbable vascular stent

2\. Our faculty has decades of real-world experience

  * Best practices in design, from needs-finding to prototyping to development
  * Obtaining regulatory approval and licensing
  * Creating curricula and courses aligned to industry needs

3\. Our students work on real-world design challenges

  * MedTech master's students team with Duke Health clinicians
  * Student teams have the real possibility of making real impacts
  * At job interviews, our graduates have those all-important, real-life
    stories to tell

Hear just one of those stories—

* * *

## Master of Engineering Degree

Become a designer through intensive, hands-on experiences

### Curriculum

The core of Duke's MedTech Design Master of Engineering is a carefully curated
program of lockstep courses.

As they progress through a diverse series of projects, our master's students
build strong, practical design skills.

In addition to design courses, you'll complete:

  * Core courses on management fundamentals for high-tech and MedTech design
    industries
  * A required course in advanced mathematics and another in a life science
    topic
  * A required internship

### How to Get Started

Apply to this Duke Master of Engineering program. How to apply »

### Sample Course Schedule

     Fall 1 Spring 1 Summer 1 Fall 2  
Skills Sequence BME 790L.X: Advanced Design and Manufacturing BME 790L.X:
Medical Electrical Equipment  
Design Health Sequence BME 790L.X: Design in Health Care 1— _Discover_ BME
790L.X: Design in Health Care 2— _Design_ BME 790L.X: Design in Health Care 3—
_Deploy_  
Business and Management Courses MENG 590: Business Fundamentals in MedTech BME
590: Quality Management for Biomedical Engineers MENG 540: Management in High-
Tech Industries  
Required Math and Life Science Courses Advanced Math course Life Science
course  
Required Internship MENG 550: Internship Planning MENG: 550 Internship MENG
551: Internship Assessment  
  
Browse course descriptions »

* * *

## Graduate Certificate

The Duke graduate certificate in medical device design exposes students in
other Duke BME master's programs to a four-course design skills sequence.
Completion of the certificate is noted on your Duke transcript.

This certificate program is open to students in Duke BME master's degree
programs in biomedical engineering:

  * Master of Science (MS)
  * Master of Engineering (MEng)

### Courses

The four (4) MedTech Design courses that fulfill this graduate certificate
provide 12 of the 30 course credits required to complete a master's degree in
BME at Duke:

  * Advanced Design and Manufacturing, _or_ Medical Electrical Equipment
  * Design in Health Care 1, _or_ Design in Health Care 3
  * Design in Health Care 2
  * Quality Management Systems

Browse course descriptions »

### How to Start the Certificate

Apply to the certificate program during your first semester at Duke BME. The
certificate is completed during your second and third semesters.

**But first** , apply to a Duke master's program in biomedical engineering.
More about our master's degrees »

* * *

## Faculty

### Paul J. Fearis

**Associate Professor of the Practice of Biomedical Engineering**

An engineer and industrial designer with decades of experience as a product
development consultant to the medical device industry and lecturer at Johns
Hopkins University. More »

### Kristy Fearis

**Instructor**

A biomedical engineer who has managed R&D teams at Medtronic and Edwards
Lifesciences who is a specialist in quality management systems and product
commercialization. Certified ASQ Quality Manager and Auditor. More »

### Joseph A. Knight

**Adjunct Professor**

He is president & CEO of InnAVasc Medical Inc., a biomedical engineer, and an
MBA graduate of Duke's Fuqua School of Business. More »

### Eric S. Richardson

**Associate Professor of the Practice of Biomedical Engineering**

A biomedical engineer who has managed R&D teams at Medtronic and the founder
of two innovation programs at Rice University. More »

* * *

## Course Descriptions

Advanced Design and Manufacturing

    

This course is designed to bring the practical application of academic
engineering to medical design while developing design skills that can be
immediately transferred to industry projects—making students attractive
prospects to industry recruiters.

The skills course establishes a mindset and set of practical skills that form
a foundation for the Design Health sequences. Students also start to build a
portfolio of design projects to showcase their design thinking.

Through a series of modules, the skills course introduces Design for
Manufacture and important concepts around production cost and the interplay
between design choices, manufacturing processes and cost. Medical image
reconstruction and the design of an implanted device take students inside the
body, designing for specific anatomy and bio-compatibility.

The Duke skills course is supported by industry leader Protolabs, and the
program is hugely grateful for their input and assistance in readying students
for careers in design and development.

Medical Electrical Equipment

    This course will make students aware of the design process and considerations associated with electronics and software functionality in medical devices. Electronic hardware topics will include microcontrollers, data communication protocols (e.g., SPI, I2C, Bluetooth, WiFi, Zigbee), power supplies, analog and digital signal management, UI/UX for input/output, electronic signal transduction, heat management, PCB layout and fabrication, and cabling and connectors. 

Software topics will include firmware, server/client communications, Restful
APIs, HIPAA, data privacy, cybersecurity, encryption, software development
process, continuous integration/deployment, version control systems, and AI-
assisted algorithms. The Verification & Validation process for hardware and
software will be reviewed, along with relevant industry standards ( _eg_ ,
IEC60601, IEC62304).

Design in Health Care 1—Discover

    

This course concentrates upon the identification of medical device innovation
opportunities through the detailed identification and analysis of unmet,
underserved and unarticulated stakeholder needs. Students work closely with
clinical staff from Duke Health and other clinical experts to identify needs
through primary qualitative research including first-hand observation,
stakeholder interviews and other secondary processes.

Utilizing industry best-practice techniques captured in the Insight Informed
Innovation process students take a broad area of focus and work with
clinicians, engineering and business faculty to focus, identify and specify
impactful opportunities that will become the basis of design projects take
forward in the Design in Healthcare 2– _Design_ course.

Students define their projects, considering clinical impact, regulatory and
reimbursement strategy, technical feasibility and interest with an eye to the
generation of intellectual property, licensing and/or startup opportunities.

Design in Health Care 2—Design

    

In this course, teams take a validated problem from Design in Healthcare 1—
_Discovery_ , and then generate broad ranges of solutions, iterate, and mature
toward proof of principle and proof of (market) concept prototypes.

Students work in multidisciplinary teams, representative of industry team
make-up, including clinical, engineering and business functions to develop
engineering solutions, business plans and supporting regulatory documentation
as would be required in industry.

Design in Healthcare 2 draws heavily upon the Skills and Quality courses,
training students to consider product development as a holistic process where
decisions are complex and interrelated.

The course is taught by industry veterans who maintain active industry roles
and projects in order to stay current and relevant.

Design in Health Care 3—Deploy

    

This course progresses a group of active projects from Design in Health Care
2— _Design_ , and other sources, to a level of maturity appropriate for the
consideration of licensing and/or startup opportunities.

Largely self-guided, student teams apply risk management and other practices
to eliminate unknowns, and generate supporting performance and usability data
and investor pitches.

Interaction with Duke Engineering Entrepreneurship (EngEn) and Duke's
licensing and venture functions brings a sharp focus to projects—exposing
students to the realities of the medical device business today.

Quality Management for Biomedical Engineers

    

Quality Management Systems (QMS) form the backbone of medical device
companies, from specification through development to regulatory submission and
commercial launch, medical device designers must be comfortable working with
and producing a broad spectrum of supporting documentation.

Using projects from the Design in Health Care courses as the active vehicle,
this course introduces students to the workings of industry quality management
systems and standards adherence.

Students generate QMS documentation to support development, risk management,
design controls and regulatory submissions.

The course is taught by an American Society of Quality-certified Quality
Manager and Quality Auditor and equips students with up-to-date practices
designed to make the transition into a regulated industry seamless.

Business Fundamentals in MedTech

    

After an introduction to the broader landscape of healthcare innovation
(including BioTech, MedTech, and Pharma), the course provides a high-level
introduction to the key non-technical areas to consider when bringing forward
a medical device—including regulatory, reimbursement, business model, funding,
sales, and marketing.

The focus is not only on a basic understanding of each area but also on the
interplay between and among each. The course concludes with an exploration of
finance-related topics where students learn the importance and application of
financial statements to medical device innovation, as well as various methods
of how a MedTech company is ultimately valued at acquisition.

Management of High-Tech Industries

    

This course addresses critical qualities of leadership, management skills, and
decision-making in complex environments.

Essential topics include:

  * Leadership and communication principles
  * Strategic decision-making where outcomes depend on high technology
  * Management of project-based and team-based organizational structures
  * Role of the manager in expertise-driven organizations

____

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Master's Contacts

### Sina Farsiu

Director, Master's Studies

__pratt_masters@duke.edu

### Paul J. Fearis

Associate Director, Master's Studies

__paul.fearis@duke.edu

### Bev Gedvillas

Master's Program Coordinator

__919-660-5132

__beverly.gedvillas@duke.edu

### Admissions

Have a question about the program or admissions? Contact the **Admissions &
Recruiting team** at pratt_masters@duke.edu.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

