Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Master of Science in Biomedical Engineering

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Masters
  3. Degrees

Ideal preparation for industry and research careers, or doctoral study

The 30-credit Duke **Master of Science in Biomedical Engineering** provides a
unique combination of opportunities:

  * A **respected and highly-ranked** graduate degree program
  * A **flexible curriculum**with choice of concentration, _and_ the option of
    thesis or non-thesis
  * Access to **graduate certificate programs** in high-demand career areas
  * Dedicated career support
  * A track record of **positive career outcomes**

Contact Admissions

How to Apply

> "The skills I developed at Duke have enabled me to head several innovative
> projects, even as an early career professional."
>
> **Jasmine Roddey, MS**  
>  Global Safety Senior Associate, AMGEN

## Flexible Degree Requirements

30 course credits, with an option of thesis

  * Life Science course—3 credits
  * Advanced Mathematics course—3 credits
  * BME courses—12 credits
  * Additional 12 credits through either:
    * **Thesis Option** —6 elective course credits and 6 independent study credits, _or_
    * **Non-Thesis Option** —12 elective course credits

More degree details »

* * *

## Concentration Areas

Aligned with faculty research

  * Bioelectric Engineering
  * Biomaterials
  * Biomechanics and Mechanobiology
  * Biomedical Imaging and Biophotonics
  * Biosensors and Bioinstrumentation
  * Biotechnology ( _certificate option_ )
  * Computational Modeling of Biological Systems
  * Drug and Gene Delivery
  * Health Data Science ( _certificate option_ )
  * Immune Engineering
  * Medical Device Design ( _certificate option_ )
  * Neural Engineering ( _certificate option_ )
  * Synthetic and Systems Biology
  * Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine

More about Duke BME research »

All certificate options »

* * *

## Additional Details

Sample Curriculum

    

This chart shows a sample curriculum for a Duke BME Master of Science (MS)
student that has chosen the Drug and Gene Delivery Concentration:

Year 1  
Fall

  * **BME 671L:** Signal Processing and Applied Mathematics
  * **BME 790:** Physiology for Engineers
  * **BME 524:** Nanotechnology in Medicine

  
Spring

  * **BME 577:** Drug Delivery
  * **BME 771:** Bioconjugation in Biomaterials
  * **BME 791:** Independent Study
  * **Elective**

  
Summer

  * **Research** in a faculty research laboratory ( _optional_ )

  
Year 2  
Fall

  * **BME 570L:** Introduction to Biomolecular Engineering
  * **BME 792:** Independent Study
  * **Elective**

  
  
Important Notes

  * Undergraduate courses may be taken, but cannot be used to fulfill degree
    requirements
  * Students may take up to 6 credits of independent study (BME 791 and BME
    792) as electives for a project in the same lab or in lieu of research
    credits for an MS thesis
  * Students may take 3 credits of Master of Engineering, Master of
    Engineering Management, or other business/management courses as an
    elective
  * Other elective courses must be selected from Engineering, Physical
    Sciences, Life Sciences, Mathematics, Computer Science, or related
    disciplines

Non-Thesis Option

    

Non-thesis MS students complete their degree by taking a milestone exam in one
of the three formats.

  * Oral poster presentation on a research or design project conducted at Duke
  * Submission of a proposal on a new research project, based on materials
    learned at Duke
  * Comprehensive oral exam on technical knowledge learned at Duke

The projects and research proposal must be related to biomedical engineering
and approved by the student's adviser. The formulation of the project plan is
a collaborative, mentored experience. Successful project plans are those in
which students can do the following:

  * State a research problem in a chosen area of study and demonstrate the
    value of the solution to the research problem;
  * Apply sound research methods/tools to problems in an area of study and
    describe the methods/tools effectively;
  * Analyze/interpret research data;
  * Draw valid conclusions from data and make a convincing case for the
    contribution of those conclusions in advancing knowledge within that area;
    and
  * Communicate their research clearly and professionally in both written and
    oral forms appropriate to the field

Thesis Option

    

MS students engaged in research are encouraged to prepare and defend a thesis.

#### Preparation

The Master's Thesis should follow the format defined in the Graduate School's
Guide for Preparation of Theses and Dissertations, and should include the
following items:

  * An abstract with objectives and clearly stated unique contributions,
  * A survey and discussion/synthesis of pertinent literature,
  * Discussions of the completed research tasks, including theory development,
    experimental design, materials and methods used, results from the study,
    and disussion, and
  * A set of conclusions that emphasize new theoretical, modeling, or
    experimental contributions; or novel applications of existing theories.

The quality of the Master’s Thesis should allow the material to be publishable
in a peer-reviewed journal. Learn more information on the master's thesis from
Duke's Graduate School website.

#### Defense

Upon the completion of the written thesis, the student must defend it orally.
The thesis advisor must approve the thesis for the defense before its final
submission to the faculty committee. In a letter to the Graduate School, the
adviser will indicate that the thesis is ready for defense. The student is
responsible for asking the DMSA to announce the thesis defense. The defense
takes place no less than one week after the student has submitted the thesis
to the Graduate School and has presented copies to the faculty committee
members. An oral presentation is a public event. The faculty committee
generally meets with the candidate in a closed meeting following the open oral
presentation. During the defense, the faculty committee may question the
student on both the content of the thesis and the student's course work.

The possible outcomes of the Master's Examination are:

  * The student passes. A majority of supporting votes are required, in
    addition to the approval of the Advisor.
  * The student fails. Re-examination might be permitted upon the
    recommendation of the Advisor and the approval of the Director of Master's
    Studies.

Certificate Options

    

Customize your degree with a certificate:

  * Certificate in Biotechnology
  * Certificate in Medical Device Design
  * Certificate in Photonics
  * University Graduate Certificate Program in Nanoscience

Admissions Profile

    

The minimum undergraduate GPA is 3.2. For international students, a minimum
TOEFL score of 90 on the internet-based test is also required. GRE is
optional. The scores of TOEFL and undergraduate GPA of recently admitted
applicants were*:

  * TOEFL: 104 - 114
  * UGPA: 3.3 - 3.7

* Mid-50% range

Cost of Attendance

    

For complete cost of attendance details, visit The Graduate School at Duke
website »

Financial Aid and Fellowships

    

Because many master's degrees are professional degrees rather than research
degrees, most students pay their own tuition costs. Many students use student
loans and believe there will be an excellent return on investment.

In certain circumstances, we provide limited financial aid to Master of
Science (MS) students.

#### Diversity Scholarships

For MS, limited financial aid is available to highly qualified candidates
through academic scholarships with an emphasis on increasing diversity within
our master's degree programs.

Underrepresented minorities may receive up to 50 percent per year in tuition
scholarship through our Diversity Scholarships. Additionally, up to $10,000
per year may be allocated for the students to gain experience in a research
setting under the direction of a principal investigator (PI).

#### Externally Funded Scholarships

For MS students, we also offer support to recipients of some competitive
externally funded scholarships, such as:

  * National Science Foundation (NSF) Fellowships
  * Fulbright Scholar Program

#### Fellowships

Some departments will occasionally provide some reduced-tuition assistance,
but most of our master's students pay through a combination of loans and their
own money.

Also, see Duke Graduate School Master Student Financial Aid webpage.

#### On-Campus Work

While enrolled in the program, many students work in a variety of places, such
as campus libraries and various departments within Duke. Teaching
assistantships and grader jobs are available in various departments, and some
faculty members have research assistantships as well.

These positions are paid an hourly rate, and most students work between 10 to
20 hours per week. Positions are generally posted and filled before classes
begin each semester.

Career Services

    

Duke Engineering provides outstanding career support to master's students. Our
career services include:

  * Working with a coach
  * Workshops and events
  * Engaging with employers and industry professionals

Learn more

## Take the Next Step

Contact Admissions

How to Apply

____

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Master's Contacts

### Sina Farsiu

Director, Master's Studies

__pratt_masters@duke.edu

### Paul J. Fearis

Associate Director, Master's Studies

__paul.fearis@duke.edu

### Bev Gedvillas

Master's Program Coordinator

__919-660-5132

__beverly.gedvillas@duke.edu

### Admissions

Have a question about the program or admissions? Contact the **Admissions &
Recruiting team** at pratt_masters@duke.edu.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

