

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Undergraduate » For Current Students » Advising

# Jada Hinds

jada.hinds@duke.edu

**Year:** Senior

**Major:** Mechanical Engineering

Favorite spot on campus...

Krafthouse!

Advice I would tell my first-year self...

Take time for myself and develop a work-social life balance. I learned that
you can study for hours and hours without breaks; however, it is not good for
your mental health or social life. I would also say to find something that you
are passionate about early and find ways to incorporate it in your time at
Duke.

Resources I love to use at Duke...

The SPIRE program, which is an academic and mentoring support system for
students majoring in STEM fields. SPIRE has helped me succeed in my courses
and build connections with students and faculty. I also love to use the
Academic Resource Center, which helps me create a schedule to help with my
time management and provides me with peer tutoring for my challenging courses.

My favorite class(es) at Duke...

My engineering courses, such as EGR 101 and EGR 121. These hands-on courses
taught me the engineering design process and exposed me to the problem-solving
and creative side of engineering. I also enjoyed the marketing classes that I
have taken at Duke that have taught me key marketing principles.

Co-Curricular/Engagement Experiences...

On campus I am involved in the National Society of Black Engineers, where I
served as a senator on the Executive Board during my freshman year, and I
currently serve as the Public Relations chair. I am a Spire Fellow, which is
an academic mentoring support system and living-learning community for
students pursuing STEM majors. I am also a TA for EGR 101 and an E-Teamer to
help first-year Pratt students transition to Duke!

How I like to spend my free time...

Hanging out with my friends in our dorms, going to various events around
campus, and walking to Ninth Street to Pincho Loco (they have the best banana
pudding ice cream)!

How I decided on my major ...

When I first applied to Pratt, I thought I wanted to major in Electrical &
Computer Engineering due to my love for computer science. However, after my
first semester at Duke I realized that I wanted to major in Mechanical
Engineering because I learned that it teaches you about different disciplines
of engineering. I was not sure what exactly I wanted to do with my engineering
degree, so Mechanical Engineering was a great way for me to learn about
product design, manufacturing, and problem solving!

Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate experience »

## Before You Ask an Academic Dean ...

An Academic Dean is an excellent resource for all Pratt undergrads, and you
should not hesitate to contact them for an appointment.

But before you do that, check to see if your question is already answered in
the policies and procedures section.

## Undergraduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 20, 2023 | Bass Connections

### Taking the Bull City by the Horns

February 22, 2023 | The Chronicle

### Sydney Hunt of Duke ECE Among Duke Young Trustee Finalists

View all undergrad news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

