Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Checking the Status of Your Request

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Undergraduate
  3. Independent study

After you submit the request, the system collects the following:

  * Approval from your supervisor¹
  * Approval from your BME sponsor, if required¹
  * Approval from the BME DUS²
  * Registration information²

_¹ Pratt Fellows: instead of supervisor and sponsor approvals, the system
collects the Fellowship verification_

_² Students taking EGR independent studies: instead of BME DUS approval, the
system collects approval from Dean Franzoni, who also sends you the
registration information._

### Watch Your Email

You will receive three (or four, if sponsor is required) emails from
**qualtrics@duke.edu** that report the result of each step. Please read these
emails! About 20 percent of the requests are not approved. If your request was
**not** approved, nothing else will happen until you make corrections.

To find the status of your request, examine all emails from
**qualtrics@duke.edu**.

  1. **Is there an email stating that your supervisor/sponsor approved your request?**  
If you do not see any email with your supervisor/sponsor approval, you need to
contact him/her.

  2. **Is there an email stating that the DUS approved?**  
You should receive it within one to two days after your supervisor/sponsor
approval. Contact the DUS if it has been more that two days after you received
the supervisor/sponsor approval.

  3. **Is there an email with the registration information?**  
Ms. Meade receives notification from the system as soon as the DUS approves
your request. She then asks the Registrar to set up a section of BME
394/493/494 for you. That takes one to two days. So, within two days you
should get an email with your registration information. This email should come
from **qualtrics@duke.edu**.

### Contact

If you cannot find any emails from **qualtrics@duke.edu** , or if you deleted
them, the DUS and Ms. Meade can check the status of the request for you.
However, doing so takes time (there are typically about 1,000 records in the
system), so please check your emails thoroughly before asking for help.

## Undergraduate Contacts

### Elizabeth Bucholz

Director

__919-684-2182

__elizabeth.bucholz@duke.edu

### Cameron Kim

Associate Director

__cameron.kim@duke.edu

### Cynthia Meade

Staff Assistant

__919-660-5133

__cynthia.meade@duke.edu

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

