Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Decoding the Circuitry of the Primate Brain

October 5, 2021 | Michaela Kane

Marc Sommer develops tools and tactics to illuminate neural pathways across
the brain

Marc Sommer works with circuits, but not the ones that involve wires,
microchips or capacitors. Instead, Sommer, the W.H. Gardner, Jr. Associate
Professor of Biomedical Engineering at Duke University, explores the circuits
that make up the body’s most complex organ­­—the brain. The brain is made up
of 86 billion neurons, and these cells communicate via electrical and chemical
signals. They are responsible for controlling everything from the simple act
of blinking to the still-mysterious task of processing memories. Researchers
and physicians have long been working on ways to decode these signals, with
approaches ranging from directly measuring electrical activity in individual
neurons to creating sensors that flash when many neurons are activated.

In his lab at Duke, Sommer combines his expertise in neuroscience,
engineering, and neurobiology to study how neurons across different brain
areas can talk to each other, and how these circuits enable us to think, move
and perceive the world.

A slice of a brain is displayed under a microscope. Credit: Jessi Cruger

## Controlling and Lighting Up Brain Activity

One of the most revolutionary advances in the field of the past decade is a
technique called optogenetics. It involves delivering genes to produce the
protein opsin, which is related to a protein found in the retina that can
detect light. By inserting opsin genes into specific types of neurons,
researchers can precisely control activity in the brain by activating or
deactivating targeted cells.

“Once we can control these neurons, we can activate or inactivate them to
study what they do,” Sommer explains.

Marc Sommer

A related technique uses the same principles but inserts genes for designer
receptors that are not naturally found in neurons. With this chemogenetic
approach, molecules instead of light can be used to turn on and off neurons of
precisely selected types. Whereas optogenetics works at superfast time scales,
chemogenetics has the staying power to influence circuits over many minutes,
which can be crucial for studying impacts on behavior.

Both of these specialized genes, coding for light sensors or designer
receptors, can be introduced to the brain using modified viruses. These
viruses have been programmed so they don’t replicate like standard viruses,
but instead act like a delivery system. While this method has been highly
effective in small animal models, it doesn’t work as well in the primate
brain, which is about 200 times larger than the rodent brain and equipped with
stronger defenses.

“Primates have a much more sophisticated immune system, which can more
effectively destroy these viral delivery methods,” says Sommer. “If we are
going to make any advances in studying the primate brain, we need to tackle
this problem head-on, so my lab is collaborating with experts in virology and
human gene therapy to develop more effective delivery vectors.”

Martin Bohlen

Since starting the project four years ago, the team—led by postdoctoral fellow
Martin Bohlen—is optimizing several viruses identified as promising delivery
candidates. They are also developing immunosuppressive approaches that help
mitigate the primate immune response. Establishing this groundwork is a
critical step for making optogenetics and chemogenetics routine methods for
primate neuroscience, which could then translate directly to new clinical
therapies.

## The Circuit Less Looked At

When neuroscientists examine how the brain processes visual information, they
typically focus on a neuronal circuit that projects from the retina to the
thalamus and the visual cortex in the back of the brain. That circuit was the
first visual system to be described in primates and has clear links to
perception and decision-making. But Sommer and a collaborator in the
Department of Neurobiology, Greg Field, wondered why a second pathway from the
retina was being neglected: just as many retinal cells connect to the
brainstem, which is responsible for the body’s subconscious behaviors, like
breathing, circulating blood, and regulating temperature.

This circuit is much more difficult to reach and control with current viral
delivery tools due to its location. In primates, it has barely been explored.
Sommer and his colleagues are applying their new viral technologies to
describe the circuit comprehensively and see if it plays any role in attention
deficit disorders, as it connects the retina directly to a structure
associated with subconscious behavior.

“We had a nagging question of why this big visual input is going to the
brainstem, specifically to an area called the superior colliculus,” says
Sommer. “That area helps us detect things in the world and orient our body to
look at them. That clearly involves attention. Our hypothesis is that this
pathway could be damaged in people with attention disorders, as they are more
easily distracted. Our goal is to use these evolving viral delivery methods to
finally begin exploring it.”

Raveena Kothare demonstrates a tool used in transcranial magnetic stimulation.
Credit: Jessi Cruger

## Understanding Magnetic Manipulation

Sommer and his lab are also actively working on projects involving
transcranial magnetic stimulation, or TMS. During this procedure, an
electrical current is pulsed through a coil, which creates an electromagnetic
field. If the coil is placed close to the head, the field can pass through the
skull and stimulate neural activity across the brain, non-invasively and
painlessly.

“TMS is FDA-approved to treat long-term depression, OCD and other psychiatric
disorders. But the standard treatment techniques have mostly been arrived at
through trial and error because we don’t know the ins and outs of what it’s
doing to neurons,” Sommer says. “We want to understand exactly what TMS does
to different types of neurons, and how it affects broader circuits in the
primate brain.”

The challenge to this, however, is that laboratory instruments such as
computers and electrical sensors are also affected by large electromagnetic
fields. But in a project that was highlighted in Nature Neuroscience, Sommer
and his collaborators Warren Grill and Angel Peterchev engineered a setup that
allowed them to use electrodes to directly measure the response of individual
neurons to the treatment. A second generation system is currently being
refined by Sommer lab PhD student Raveena Kothare. These engineering successes
have laid the groundwork for understanding the larger physiological effects of
TMS.

Most recently, Sommer and his team have been exploring how varying levels of
neural activity can affect TMS. Their hope is that this will help scientists
understand if the state of the brain at the time TMS is applied—the ongoing
level of neural activity—is important for making TMS more effective.

“Understanding the small and large physiological effects of TMS are building
blocks that will hopefully help us optimize the therapy,” says Sommer. “My
lab’s long-term goal is to tie all of our lines of research into a synergistic
research program, so every level of success is a step toward that goal.”

The Sommer Lab

Read additional stories from this issue

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

