Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# DEIA Committee Advances Diversity Efforts Across Duke BME

October 5, 2021 | Michaela Kane

Through recruitment, mentorship and community events, the committee aims to
make Duke BME more inclusive for faculty, staff and students

Engineers at Duke University pride themselves on devising solutions to some of
society’s most pressing issues. In the spirit of this goal, students, staff
and faculty in Duke University’s Department of Biomedical Engineering created
the BME Committee for Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Anti-Racism (DEIA) to
develop new ways to support and mentor those who are under-represented within
Duke’s biomedical engineering community.

Intended to work in partnership with Duke Engineering’s centralized Diversity,
Equity, Inclusion and Community (DEIC) Committee, and Karis Boyd-Sinkler, the
director of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, Duke BME’s DEIA committee will
explore ways in which the department can be more inclusive and welcoming. When
the committee was first formed in the summer of 2020, they identified key
areas to focus on for improvement: recruitment, mentorship, inclusion and
community outreach.

“It all starts with recruiting the best and most qualified people to be
members of our department but doing it in a way that is inclusive to all,”
says Tatiana Segura, the chair of the DEIA committee. “Mentorship is all about
getting people the support they need to succeed at work and in life. We hope
to create a more inclusive department by promoting community engagement
through small and large events. Outreach is where it all starts, and we hope
to work within BME and Pratt to engage our local communities to help make a
difference.”

The team created numerous initiatives to help support and recruit talent at
all levels of the department. Current Duke BME faculty and students are
required to attend mandatory implicit bias training to help identify areas
where biases were affecting their actions. New faculty candidates will be
asked to provide a statement that explains how they will contribute to the
department’s diversity, equity and inclusion efforts.

The committee organized an informational session for BME PhD students in the
March Forum where Tatiana Segura, the chair of the committee, and Ashutosh
Chilkoti, the chair of Duke BME, discussed the updated faculty hiring
processes.

The department has developed a new PhD education initiative that adds an extra
level of holistic applicant review for PhD applicants that don’t have the
topmost grade point averages. They have also made a ‘GRE Optional’ status for
graduate applications, with the understanding that the test is often an
expensive application requirement.

In addition to these efforts, the committee has organized a PhD virtual
information session scheduled for November, which will include a faculty panel
and Q&A. The team will work with Pratt Communications to advertise broadly
both inside and outside of Duke. As a future effort to help diversify graduate
student recruitment, the committee plans to work with the BME master’s and PhD
program coordinators to organize attendance at a broader range of conferences
and recruitment events.

“Diversity remains the bedrock for cultivating an innovative research
community. Our efforts to build equitable processes to attract and support
voices of all backgrounds remains top of mind,” says Danielle Giles, the PhD
program coordinator and a member of the committee. “Our students are the
problem solvers that organizations seek out to solve the most pressing issues
of the day. Which is why we are committed to recruiting a diverse group – one
that is equally committed to taking on the biggest challenges as they are to
affecting the required changes needed in their local communities.”

The committee recognized that mentorship plays a major role in determining
someone’s experience within Duke BME––and that this was an area where the
department had the most room to grow.

The DEIA committee's first effort in this area was organizing “Coffee Chats.”
In these monthly events, small groups of students and post-doctoral fellows
can sign up to meet with a faculty member or senior postdoc who will serve as
mentors. Over coffee or similar drinks, the groups will meet with their
mentors and discuss a topic ranging from research advice to questions about
how to balance work schedules with family life.

The committee also developed numerous peer mentoring initiatives for post-
doctoral fellows and PhD students, like writing group events. During these
meetings, new postdocs and late-stage PhD students are invited to join small
writing groups led by veteran postdocs. These groups will provide structured
writing time, while also building a peer mentoring pipeline where participants
can receive feedback on manuscripts and grant, fellowship and job
applications.

“While our department asserts values of inclusivity, we know that many members
of our community have historically lacked opportunities to take part in and
shape our culture,” says Rachel Katz, the student chair of the committee. “We
wanted to organize numerous social events that help support a more inclusive
and welcoming departmental culture.”

One of these initiatives includes virtual movie nights, where participants
will watch and discuss a movie that deals with race, gender, orientation or
any other underrepresented identity in STEM. Past movies have included “Hidden
Figures,” “Disclosure” and “13th.”

“We believe that our commitment to equity and anti-racism should go beyond the
walls of Duke BME,” says Segura. “In order to foster a diverse and inclusive
environment, there must be enough people from backgrounds traditionally
excluded from STEM who get to the point where they are able to apply to join
our department.”

Beyond these areas of focus, the team also put together an anonymous,
department-wide survey designed to help the committee better understand Duke
BME’s culture and identify additional areas for growth regarding diversity,
equity and inclusion. This survey will be sent out once a year, and the
committee members will use it to gauge departmental culture, obtain feedback
on the committee’s work and inform new initiatives.

“This tool will help us see where our efforts have been successful and where
they haven’t had an impact,” says Kay Palopoli, a PhD student involved in the
committee. “Diversity helps strengthen research departments, and we want to
make sure that our efforts are supporting our students, staff and faculty so
our community can be a safe and welcoming space for all individuals.”

Read additional stories from this issue

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

