Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Expanding Opportunities for Entrepreneurial Post-Docs

October 5, 2021 | Michaela Kane

The Duke BME Post-Doctoral Entrepreneurial Fellowship program is a new
resource for graduates who want to launch companies based on their PhD
research. For inaugural fellows Christian Viehland and Stefan Roberts, the
program was instrumental in their transition from student to entrepreneur.

### Christian Viehland: Creating the Next Generation of Handheld OCT Probes

As a PhD student in Joe Izatt’s lab in Duke University’s Department of
Biomedical Engineering, Christian Viehland helped develop a handheld device
that uses optical coherence tomography, or OCT. This imaging modality allows
researchers to visualize the layers of the retina, and this perspective
provides valuable diagnostic information for a variety of eye diseases. Unlike
most OCT systems, the new handheld system is portable with a lightweight hand
piece, and it is six times faster than current OCT probes. Its speed, weight
and portability have enabled the Duke research team to bring state-of-the-art
OCT imaging to new patient populations, like pediatric patients, who cannot be
imaged using a traditional OCT exam.

Viehland, now a research associate at Duke, knew that this technology would be
useful for ophthalmologists and other eye specialists, so when the opportunity
for the Post-Doctoral Entrepreneurial Fellowship arrived, he was eager to
participate.

Christian Viehland

“I think that technology that has a use as a research tool or as a diagnostic,
like our OCT probe, almost has to be commercialized to have value,” says
Viehland. “I was excited to use this program and the entrepreneurial resources
it provided to learn how I can ensure that this tool moves from the lab bench
and into a commercial market, where it can be useful outside the Duke
community.”

Because the fellowship provides salary support, Viehland was able to spend his
time focusing on applying for and receive an SBIR Phase 1 startup grant. This
funding supported the creation of a new prototype, and enabled Viehland to
found Theia Imaging, where he now serves as the Vice President of Engineering.

According to Viehland, Theia Imaging’s prototype could be specifically useful
to infants and pre-term infants, who can suffer from a retinal disease called
retinopathy of prematurity. Because current OCT systems are large and
immobile, physicians cannot use them on infants, so instead they need to use a
white light exam to screen for the disease. This diagnostic isn’t as accurate
as OCT, and it’s uncomfortable and stressful for children.

But with Theia Imaging’s new prototype, physicians could quickly and easily
scan a child’s eye.

“This program let me get my feet underneath me. It gives you flexibility to
pursue what you want to do full-time and not just like a ‘what can I do in my
garage in the evening after work’ project,” Viehland explains. “That freedom
was really valuable in terms of getting the ball rolling for a startup.

### Stefan Roberts: New Biomaterials for Tissue Engineering and Regenerative
Medicine

Stefan Roberts PhD’18 worked in Ashutosh Chilkoti’s lab during his time at
Duke, where he created a biomaterial with “Frankenstein Proteins” that, when
injected could support the growth of new tissue.

“I started my graduate studies with a pure science question. We were
interested in protein folding and protein chemistry with no initial ambition
toward product development,” says Roberts. “Over the course of my dissertation
I realized that we were developing something truly unique with a plethora of
utility. It seemed too irresistible not to start a company based on this new
technology.”

That realization led Roberts to the post-doctoral entrepreneurial fellowship.
The program gave him the support he needed to launch, InSoma Bio, which
operates out of Duke Engineering Entrepreneurship’s BRiDGE incubator workspace
in the Chesterfield in downtown Durham.

Stefan Roberts

Like Viehland, Roberts credits the fellowship for giving him resources, like
the incubator space and salary support, as became acquainted with the
entrepreneurial world.

“This program gave me time to figure out how to take my academic background,
the scientific knowledge I felt very solid in, and translate that to
developing something commercially viable,” says Roberts “I was able to take
the time to learn how I need to speak to investors, how to pitch, and how to
get a small business grant, all skills I didn’t inherently learn as part of my
normal graduate studies.”

Since the company’s founding in 2019, the team was able to join the startup
accelerator Y Combinator based out of San Francisco, and they’ve expanded
their work to see how their biomaterials could be useful for soft tissue
reconstruction and plastic surgery applications. According to Roberts, the
team has been collaborating with plastic surgeons at the Duke University
Medical Center to specifically explore how their biomaterials could be
combined with a patient’s own fat as an alternative to implants for breast
reconstructive surgeries. The company was also recognized by the business
platform Crunchbase.

Roberts and his collaborators are in pre-clinical development and are
beginning to outline the timeline and requirements they need to meet in order
to begin clinical trials.

“In academia, people are spending years doing research on really interesting
ideas, and then they generally have to leave it behind, but some of these
ideas have real potential for broader impact,” says Roberts. “This fellowship
minimizes many of the risks of founding a startup-up company, gives people an
opportunity to take ideas they have ownership of and providing them the time,
mentorship, funding, space, and backing they need to go out and make it
happen.

Read additional stories from this issue

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

