Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# A Pipeline from Makerspace to Marketplace

October 5, 2021 | Michaela Kane

Duke Engineering’s new Wilkinson Building gives students space—and support—to
craft innovative tools that can translate into entrepreneurial success

After more than a decade of planning and three years of construction, the
Wilkinson Building on Duke University’s West Campus officially opened to
students in January 2021.

With more than 150,000 square feet of space spread across five floors, the new
building expands the Pratt School of Engineering’s education space by 50
percent. But rather than simply offer standard classrooms and office spaces to
Duke engineers, the Wilkinson Building was designed to specifically encourage
collaboration among students, staff and faculty in the four engineering
departments, and across the university as a whole.

Inside the building, this is especially evident in the research neighborhoods,
which span the top three floors and place interdisciplinary faculty together
to work on common topics including innovations in human health; environmental
health; and advanced computing and intelligent systems.

Throughout the rest of the building, large, bright gathering spaces provide
spots for students to work and chat, and four active-learning classrooms
equipped with entire walls of whiteboards and moveable furniture give
professors maximum flexibility for teaching, allowing for both traditional
lectures and hands-on, team-based lessons.

But for Eric Richardson and Paul Fearis, some of the most exciting
collaborative spaces in the Wilkinson Building are the sprawling design labs
on the first floor.

Design Health students plan out their prototype in the new design lab in the
Wilkinson Building

## A Hub for Collaborative Design

Richardson and Fearis lead the Design Health Program and Medical Device Design
certificate, both operated by Duke BME. Although the medical device design
certificate caters specifically to Duke BME graduate students and Design
Health is open to students across the university, both programs teach students
how to identify unmet clinical needs and develop innovative solutions.

“We teach students how to immerse themselves in a clinical environment and how
to identify when things aren’t working,” says Fearis, a senior lecturing
fellow in Duke BME. “Is a tool awkward for a surgeon to use? Does a simple
procedure or task take a really long time? Do things always get in someone’s
way? These are questions we teach our students to ask as they make
observations, because these are areas where something can be improved.”

After spending time in the clinic and working with physicians and nurses to
identify these problems, students form interdisciplinary teams to brainstorm
solutions and, as the semester progresses, design and refine their prototypes.

“Design Health is an interdisciplinary program, so we have folks coming from
medicine, engineering and business. Before we didn’t really have a home to
bring all those groups together to collaborate, but these garage labs are
really unique and wonderful because of their placement on campus,” says
Richardson, an associate professor of the practice in Duke BME.

Students discuss their Design Health project

Sitting at the intersection of Duke Engineering, the Trinity College of Arts &
Sciences, and the Duke University Medical Center, the Wilkinson Building is
easily accessible by students and faculty from across Duke. It’s also located
across the street from the Duke Co-Lab, which houses 3D printers and other
prototyping tools for students and staff. According to Richardson and Fearis,
this centralization is unusual for most design programs.

“The fact that the building and these workspaces are so accessible has made it
much easier for our students to collaborate with teams in the medical center
or at the business school, and that only benefits their projects,” says
Richardson. “Most of the work in Design Health and Medical Device Design
happens after hours because our students work in labs or full-time programs or
have day jobs, and it’s great that they have a place where they can focus,
build and prototype.”

But the work isn’t over after a prototype has been finalized. Instead, the
student teams can move one floor down to the Sondland Durant Center for
Entrepreneurship to learn how to bring their ideas out of the lab and into the
marketplace.

Students work in the Sondland Durant Center for Entrepreneurship

## Engineering Entrepreneurship

The Sondland Durant Center for Entrepreneurship extends throughout the
Wilkinson Building’s garden level, offering offices for team leaders, a large
meeting area for lectures and workshops, and a group of small teleconference
rooms. This sprawling workspace is the home of EngEn, the Duke Engineering
Entrepreneurship Initiative.

“EngEn is an engine for innovation––driving the cycle of problem
identification, solution development and the robust launch of new ventures,”
says Ken Gall, the associate dean for entrepreneurship. “Other schools
certainly have entrepreneurial programs, but EngEn is unique because we now
have a unified home for design, innovation and entrepreneurship, and that
centralization makes it really easy to build collaborations and find
entrepreneurial success.”

EngEn was created to help students, faculty and staff translate research and
technologies into licenses, patents and even successful startups. By
supporting a suite of design programs like Design Health, business incubators
like the BRiDGE and undergraduate initiatives like the A. James Clark Scholars
program, EngEn aims to streamline the entire trajectory of a product––from the
formation of an idea, through the design process, and ultimately into the
commercial market.

“This new space gives us an opportunity to have an open door for anyone to
walk in and meet and connect with entrepreneurs and co-innovators in the Duke
network,” says Fioleda Kesseli, the Executive Director of EngEn. “Having this
proximity and cross-pollination will move a lot of projects forward towards
commercialization and allow a whole new suite of useful technologies to come
to fruition.”

The Sondland Durant Center for Entrepreneurship

“These spaces were designed to create the optimum collaborative environment,”
says Bill Walker, the Mattson Family Director of Entrepreneurship in
Engineering. “In our larger space we’ll run workshops where we can teach
students and faculty about topics like risk assessment and how to license a
product. In the surrounding ‘phone booth rooms,’ we can leverage the global
network of Duke alumni by teleconferencing and getting our students connected
to mentors or potential investors all around the globe.

EngEn made an impact almost immediately after its formation in early 2020 with
its support of the COVID-19 Engineering Response Team. This team, made of
faculty, staff, students and clinicians across campus, identified critical
equipment needs for health care workers during the onset of the coronavirus
pandemic. Within six months, the team designed and produced more than 30,000
3D printable reusable face shields, developed a way to adapt surgical helmets
to become powered air-purifying respirators, and even created isolation tents
for patients.

Although EngEn will continue to build collaborations across Duke’s campus,
program leaders are optimistic that the center’s proximity to centralized
design spaces will result in new and exciting collaborations and startup
opportunities.

“We know that people at Duke have phenomenal ideas, and we want to help get
them out into the world,” says Walker. “Our goal is to coach them and help
them along that journey, and the Center for Entrepreneurship will be where
that happens.”

Read additional stories from this issue

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

