Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Master's Profile: Andrew Burton

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Masters
  3. Outcomes

  * **Current Position** : Project Mechanical Engineer at Lutron Electronics
    (Catonsville, Md.)
  * **Undergraduate** : BS in Mechanical Engineering, Duke University
  * **Duke MEMS Path** : MEng in Mechanical Engineering—Thermal Fluids Core
    (4+1 program), 2017

Why did you choose Duke for your graduate degree?

I choose Duke because I could finish my master's degree in one year.

I did not think about a different university because I loved my time as a Duke
engineering undergraduate so much. You'd be surprised how much this
engineering department has to offer, despite its small size in comparison to
larger technical universities. In my opinion, it's the perfect size for
students to have access to resources and showcase their interests and talents.

Tell us about your career.

My job as project mechanical engineer includes finding new ways to manufacture
existing company products cheaper and easier. In addition, I help find the
manufacturing issues that cause supply chain and distribution problems. My
goal in a few months is to work on the design teams for the new products that
my company is developing.

How did your time at Duke prepare you for your current job?

My undergraduate years at Duke solidified my conceptual understanding of
engineering principles, all of which give me confidence when I apply that
knowledge to the workplace. The work that I had to complete in those four
years, and in my fifth year for the Master of Engineering (MEng) degree,
trained me to overcome difficulty, think creatively, and work effectively with
different types of people. My graduate year helped me mentally prepare to be
an engineering professional. The teams I worked with in classes operated in a
serious manner, treated all assignments and team members with respect, and
bonded together after observing the excellent work that we would deliver.

What was the most valuable part of your Duke experience?

The faculty and staff here were the most valuable resource of my Duke
experience, and I wish I had been more open with them earlier in my time at
Duke. The professors in some of my favorite classes are amazing resources
outside of class. They care immensely about a student when they see him or her
be passionate about learning rather than just obtaining good grades. And, if
you demonstrate genuine interest in a subject area, they will immediately
connect you to someone who can help further your pursuit of that interest with
their expansive network of colleagues and past students. With all the
entrepreneurship happening at Duke, professors keep the most up-to-date tabs
on projects and startup ideas worked on by fellow students, and can best
connect you with individuals you can collaborate with.

What were the most useful courses you took at Duke?

Heat and Mass Transfer—this course ironed out the thermodynamic fundamentals
that have developed into the cornerstones of my engineering expertise.
Understanding how heat flows and its similarity to all other energy flows like
fluids and electricity give me the confidence to understand and optimize
designs and processes.

Management in High-Tech Corporations—this course taught me the soft skills
required to get work done most efficiently with a diverse group of people and
personalities. It required a lot of introspection, which I enjoyed, and
challenged me to imagine my ideal self in the future and to start embodying
and strengthening my leadership characteristics. I am sure that even in the
twilight of my career, lessons from this class will still resonate within me.

Design with Constructal Theory—this thermodynamic-based course demonstrated
the thought process I must have to optimize any design that I could think of.
The work required me to break down a design or process into its fundamental
components and make a definite conclusion using thermodynamic analysis.

What advice would you give to someone considering a master's degree in MEMS at
Duke?

Talk to professors about any interest of yours, even if it is not related to
that professor's area of research. They will always steer you in the direction
of the next best person who can fulfill your interest. The program at Duke is
flexible, so you can tailor your classes to develop upon a specific related
interest. For example, I'm interested in the future of agriculture and how
mechanical engineering, automation, and sustainability will impact its
evolution. The classes and independent studies I undertook in my graduate year
provided me new knowledge that would be useful if applied to agriculture, and
the MEMS Department approved courses even outside the MEMS department because
they still advanced my understanding and pursuit of my interest.

## Master's Contacts

### George Delagrammatikas

Professor of the Practice and Director of Master's Studies

__919-660-5346

__george.delagrammatikas@duke.edu

### Shauntil Gray

Director of Master's Studies Assistant

__919-660-5310

__shauntil.gray@duke.edu

Contact Admissions

____

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

