Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Master's Profile: Davide Di Nubila

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Masters
  3. Outcomes

  * **Current Position** : Propulsion Test Engineer, Isar Aerospace (Kiruna,
    Sweden)

  * **Undergraduate** : Aerospace Engineering, 2014-2017, Politecnico di
    Milano (Italy)
  * **Duke MEMS Path** : Master of Engineering, 2020
  * **Advisor:** Bob Kielb

Why did you choose Duke MEMS and the THRUST program for graduate study?

After completing my bachelor’s degree in my home country, I felt the need for
a change. I decided to join the THRUST Master of Engineering program offered
by KTH University (Sweden) and Duke. What made me take this choice was the
incredible opportunity to live in two completely different countries while
studying and becoming an expert in the field of turbomachinery. The whole
program challenged me every single day by forcing me to step out of my comfort
zone and adapt quickly to the situation.

What was your thesis project?

My thesis project consisted of an aerodynamics investigation a design for an
air intake for the cockpit of a Duke Electric Vehicle (DEV). I chose this
topic after joining the DEV team and seeing a lot of potential in the vehicle
design. The project was divided into two parts: Computational fluid dynamics
simulations and small-scale wind tunnel experiments of the original design,
and then a design of the air intake for the thermal comfort of the driver.

How Duke prepare you for your current job?

Starting from the technical knowledge acquired during the master’s program, I
now feel confident in any field of aerospace engineering: from solid
mechanics, to fluid dynamics and testing. I will always be thankful to my
supervisor Robert Kielb and to the whole Duke Aeroelasticity team for sharing
their thoughts and expertise during our weekly meetings.

But, Duke did not give me only a solid engineering background, it also helped
me develop a healthy and passionate work ethic, which pushed me to follow my
dreams and start my career in one of the most promising European startups.

What were some of the highlights of your experience as an Duke master's
student?

Thinking back to my arrival at Duke, I will never forget the first day. I was
coming from a more than 20-hour trip from Italy and was sleepless. I went to
the Master of Engineering (MEng) and Career Service presentation. Their energy
behind every single speaker recharged and boosted my energy toward the
upcoming semester.

After that, I would recall all the moments spent with my fellow THRUST
students, from the campout for that season’s Duke basketball tickets, to the
afternoons and nights in the library and labs. THRUST is tough and demanding,
but together we made it through.

Last, but not least, the Cameron Crazies and all the Duke sporting events, and
the faculty, made my stay at Duke fun and rewarding.

What advice would you give to prospective Duke applicants?

Use your time at Duke to find out who you really are. I think most people are
too busy trying to figure out what to do after their degree, and lose all the
small things that make life at Duke awesome.

My advice is: _**Take your time!**_ Enjoy all the possibilities that Duke
offers you.

## Master's Contacts

### George Delagrammatikas

Professor of the Practice and Director of Master's Studies

__919-660-5346

__george.delagrammatikas@duke.edu

### Shauntil Gray

Director of Master's Studies Assistant

__919-660-5310

__shauntil.gray@duke.edu

Contact Admissions

____

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

