Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Master's Profile: Meredith Kircher

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Masters
  3. Outcomes

  * **Name:** Meredith Outlaw Kircher MEng '18

  * **Duke MEMS Track:** Mechanical Engineering
  * **Job Title:** Project Engineer, Supply Chain Management, Honda Aircraft

Why did you choose Duke and your area of study?

I liked that the Master of Engineering was a well-rounded program, in which I
could take both engineering and management courses. I chose Mechanical
Engineering to continue expanding on my undergraduate education in the same
subject.

Tell us about your Duke Experience.

I was fortunate enough to study at Duke for both college and graduate school.
The 4+1 plan was a great use of my time because I could start taking graduate
courses as a senior. Being a master's student at Duke was a rewarding and
enriching experience. I was involved in a number of group projects in graduate
school that helped me sharpen my teamwork and leadership skills.

What impact has your Duke master's degree had on your career?

The soft skills I learned in the Management of High Tech Industries course
have already helped me in my career. In that course, I learned how to work
with others and I learned interview skills. Advice from programs, such as
weekly Friday seminars, the "Night with Industry" event, and guest speakers
have been immensely useful in shaping my career decisions. The opportunity to
hear from people 20 years or more into their careers is helpful to someone
just starting their career.

What advice would you give to prospective Duke applicants?

The Master of Engineering Management and Master of Engineering programs are
nicely well-rounded and can provide an array of experiences to help you figure
out what you want to do after you get your master's degree. The weekly
seminars are a great way to learn about industries and meet local
professionals.

What advice would you give to admitted students considering Duke?

Duke has many opportunities to offer, from research opportunities to courses
taught by outstanding professors to the benefit of interacting with students
from different backgrounds. Take advantage of new experiences and go to lots
of sports games!

## Master's Contacts

### George Delagrammatikas

Professor of the Practice and Director of Master's Studies

__919-660-5346

__george.delagrammatikas@duke.edu

### Shauntil Gray

Director of Master's Studies Assistant

__919-660-5310

__shauntil.gray@duke.edu

Contact Admissions

____

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

