

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2018

# Building Cross-Cultural Bonds through Healthcare Technology

June 6, 2018 | By Nimisha Pant

Duke forms a special relationship with the students at Makerere University in
Kampala, Uganda

During the summer of 2017, a group of eight Duke students departed to Uganda,
where they underwent training at Makerere University in Kampala and spent
their remaining time repairing medical equipment at hospitals there. It was
the first year of the Engineering World Health (EWH)-DukeEngage Summer
Institute (SI) Uganda program, which aimed to both contribute to Ugandan
hospitals by repairing medical equipment and to enrich the education of Duke
students by providing them with a unique experience of getting involved in the
local Ugandan community.

"When I met the students at the pre-departure dinner, I could tell even they
didn't know what exactly they had gotten themselves into," remarked Maddy
Bishop-Van Horn, the SI Engineering Coordinator for EWH.

The students began their journey at Makerere University, where they met the
participants from the institution who would work alongside them throughout the
trip. Bishop-Van Horn, who has worked on similar projects in Rwanda, Cambodia,
Nepal and Tanzania, noted that the students selected for the program had a
wide range of technical skills. With a mix of two ECE, four BME and two
neuroscience majors, "The team was able to learn together and build each
other's skills up throughout the course of the trip," she noted. During the
hands-on labs and lectures, the students developed their understanding of
needs-based design in the developing world.

Their contributions to the hospitals were tremendous. Bishop- Van Horn
recalled that in the orthopedic department at one of the hospitals the
students visited, nearly 75 percent of the equipment being used was either
broken or not working properly. This was a public hospital for those who
needed help but could not afford to visit a private hospital.

The students were able to repair much of this equipment and even visited a
dental school where they got 10 to 15 dental chairs fully functioning. Some of
the repaired equipment had been out of service for years, including a grinder
for orthotic braces and an autoclave. These are just some examples of over 100
pieces of equipment the students repaired at seven different hospitals in
Kampala.

The experience was even more impactful for the students, who developed skills
about needs-based design and were able to put them to use while designing
equipment for physiotherapy. One example of a particularly creative solution
was a physical therapy device for patients with cerebral palsy built using a
simple bicycle wheel.

Duke students were solving real-world problems and saw how their solutions
worked. They worked closely with staff in the hospitals and professors at
Makerere University, learning more than they had ever imagined they would.

Reflecting on his experience, Duke student Praruj Pant said, "Honestly, we
learned more from the people in the community that we worked with than we
actually taught them. It was truly a humbling experience." Although the
program participants certainly made an impact on the community, DukeEngage
aims to foster collaboration between participants and community members, which
is clearly seen in how much the participants learned from local Ugandans.

Outside of work, according to Helen Tan, one of the Duke students in the
program, the students "built many meaningful relationships and had
conversations and cross-cultural understandings that [they] would not
otherwise have gained."

Living in Kampala, the students were able to immerse themselves in the
culture, even enjoying a performance by the Ndere Dance Troupe and going on a
safari. Living in the community also fostered a deeper understanding of the
engineering challenges. As Tan stated, "I believe you gain a deeper
understanding of how you can help as an engineer when you really go to places
and see what they actually need." Given the positive impacts of the program on
both the local community and the participants, the EWH-Duke Engage SI Uganda
program will likely continue to grow.

**Nimisha Pant is a freshman currently studying mechanical engineering.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2018

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

