

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2018

# The Next Big Thing: A Conversation with Steve McClelland and Bill Walker

June 21, 2018 | By Will Stewart

How two Pratt graduates are helping put Duke innovators on the map

If you know about Duke University beyond athletics, you know that it's a great
educational institution. You know that it's a great research institution. But
you may not know it as a place that's phenomenal at getting its ideas out into
the real world—there's no reason that those three things shouldn't all be
aligned."

These are the sentiments that Bill Walker and Steven McClelland shared with me
about the trajectory of Pratt during the years to come. Both Duke Engineering
alumni with vast experiences in tech and engineering startups, Walker and
McClelland have since returned to Duke with the primary goal of making Pratt a
hub for innovation and entrepreneurial ventures in higher education.

McClelland, a member of the Duke Class of '95, found himself in the startup
scene not long after graduation. After starting a company in Boston,
McClelland left for the West Coast to begin another company in San Francisco,
which eventually sold to Yahoo!. He then worked at Twitter, and from there,
came back to Durham to work at Duke and change how the university approaches
entrepreneurship in engineering.

Walker, an undergraduate and PhD graduate in biomedical engineering, was
shaped by his early experiences in innovation. "I started to invent things and
found out pretty quickly that industry didn't care—there was no real way to
get it out to the marketplace," said Walker. "If I wanted my inventions out in
the world, I was the guy that was going to have to make that happen."

With that mindset, Walker worked his way into the startup field, and during
his career, joined the University of Virginia and helped develop their
biomedical engineering program while founding two companies. He left UVA to
run HemoSonics, a diagnostics company focused on determining the causes of
critical bleeding, and from there returned to Duke, where he now serves as the
Mattson Family Director of Entrepreneurial Ventures.

With their combined experience in entrepreneurship, Walker and McClelland hope
to make Duke a place that fosters a culture of innovation, while also
providing students with an understanding of how to make their ideas and
products marketable. The duo have a wealth of experience after dealing with
difficulties in translating some of their early ideas to the marketplace.

"Back in 1995, I was trying to build highend electric cars and virtual reality
goggles. It was only 25 years too early," recalled McClelland. However,
Walker's and McClelland's initial struggles gave them the learning experience
necessary to know how to build successful companies and products. "I have a
lot of scars, and I remember where I got them all," continued Walker.

McClelland says that Duke is a very social place, thriving from its
interdisciplinary nature and diverse community, but that he thinks the
university can do a better job of translating that social nature into
collaboration for entrepreneurship. "To build a company, you don't want just
all computer scientists, or all engineers, or all policy, or all marketing.
You won't get very far," said McClelland, adding that part of Duke's appeal is
its wide variety of talented people from various fields, and that one of his
goals is to build better teamwork between those sectors.

> "I have a lot of scars, and I remember where I got them all."

Walker and McClelland also keep an eye on the state of the technology and
engineering industries, and note how the relationship between big companies
and startups can produce innovation leading to products and revenues at a
rapid pace. "The day that somebody buys your invention for millions and
millions of dollars is long gone," stated Walker. Instead, big companies are
looking for promising startups to acquire and integrate into their business
model.

"When Facebook acquires a company, they're buying a team," said Walker.
Companies are always looking externally for fresh ideas coming from innovative
teams and people. McClelland added that, "The fastest way to get a high-level
position in Google is probably to start your own company and prove that you
learn things more rapidly on your own."

Talking about the economics of the tech industry, McClelland discussed how
startups are more likely to stay private, since there's more opportunity to be
made being acquired by a larger company than there is in the public sector for
most businesses. "Android changed Google. Instagram, WhatsApp and Oculus
changed Facebook," said McClelland, showing the influence that smaller
companies can have through acquisition.

Business is constantly changing, and learning how to tackle that change as an
entrepreneur is something McClelland and Walker hope to bring to Duke. "Part
of it is demystifying the path," said McClelland. "No matter how successful or
not a company is, you're probably going to learn a lot if you're paying
attention. And you're a more qualified individual for whatever you do next."

While McClelland and Walker aim to make Duke a better place for innovation and
entrepreneurship, they both agree that making college education more "career-
oriented" isn't necessarily the way to do it. "This isn't job training," said
Walker. "This is preparation for a career, and we don't know what that career
will be."

Walker's point hints at the ever-changing state of business and technology
that can be so difficult to predict. Reminiscing on their own college
experiences, McClelland remarked that, "My freshman engineering computer
programming course was Fortran."

"Mine was Pascal!" responded Walker, adding another obsolete programming
language to the list.

A main goal of college education, as Walker recognizes, it to "learn how to
learn," so that though certain material may not be applicable in a job
setting, the process certainly is. As Walker commented, "The fact that you
learned the wrong language, Steve, is secondary to the fact that you learned
how to take an abstract idea and express it as a concrete algorithm."

College education also prepares graduates for on-the-job learning, as
McClelland expressed when speaking about his job in Boston. "At my first
startup, my co-founders all had computer science degrees from MIT, and they
made fun of my programming which made me better. It felt like I got a second
education in computer science, and that was great for me!"

McClelland and Walker closed with a few words of advice for hopeful innovators
and entrepreneurs. Walker encourages the students he works with not to let a
fear of failure keep them from starting a company. "If you think you want to
do a startup, do a startup. When I sit down in a room full of investors and I
say, 'Well, my first company failed,' their ears perk up and they get
excited."

McClelland responded along the same lines, saying, "There's no penalty to
apply to Google in two years and say, 'I ran a startup into the ground.'" As
much as they want students to succeed, Mc- Clelland and Walker agree that
failure is a learning experience, especially when it comes to running a
company. And when it comes to entrepreneurship, finding an opportunity for a
business or product to thrive is everything.

As Walker put it, "Don't play to win the hardest game. Find a game that you
can win."

**Will Stewart is a junior studying electrical and computer engineering.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2018

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

