

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# The $10 Ultrasound Upgrade

October 31, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

Clip-on device featuring a $10 microchip gives standard 2-D ultrasound
machines 3-D imaging capabilities

Technology that keeps track of how your smartphone is oriented can now give
$50,000 ultrasound machines many of the 3-D imaging abilities of their
$250,000 counterparts—for the cost of a $10 microchip.

In a presentation at the American College of Emergency Physicians Research
Forum on October 31, doctors and engineers from Duke University and Stanford
University showed how their snap-on invention can make 2-D ultrasound machines
much more powerful. With a few cents’ worth of 3-D-printed materials, a
microchip common to smartphones, a few wires and a laptop, a 2-D ultrasound
machine can capture 3-D images of infants’ brains with similar quality to MRI
or CT scans while the baby is held in a parent’s arms.

“With 2-D technology you see a visual ‘slice’ of an organ, but without any
context, you may mistake it for another part, or mistake one disease process
or injury for another,” said Joshua Broder, M.D., emergency physician and
director of the emergency medicine residency program at the Duke University
School of Medicine. “These are all problems that can be solved with the added
orientation and holistic context of 3-D technology. Gaining that ability at an
incredibly low cost by taking existing machines and upgrading them seemed like
the best solution to us.”

The idea came to Broder while playing a game of Nintendo Wii with his son.
With the game console’s ability to accurately track the exact position of the
controller, Broder wondered, why not just duct-tape the controller to an
ultrasound probe?

That is the basic idea behind the new device. When physicians use a 2-D
ultrasound machine, they move and tilt the probe in various directions until
they get the view they want. But in the process, they are essentially throwing
away perfectly good data. The new device keeps track of the exact orientation
of the probe while imaging a patient, so that those images can be stitched
together in three dimensions.

“If each image were a playing card, then it would be like putting them all
together in order into a deck so you can flip through it,” said Broder. “Each
image is a slice that makes up the whole.”

The prototype includes a 3-D-printed harness that snaps on to the ultrasound
probe to securely attach the position-tracking microchip. That harness then
snaps into one of several platforms that restricts its movement to a single
axis of rotation.

> "Instead of looking through a keyhole to understand what’s in the room, we
> can open a door and see everything in front of us.”

For example, one platform only allows the probe to swing in an arc like a door
on a hinge. Another only allows it to twist in a circle along its vertical
axis. These platforms are meant to allow the orientation of the probe to
change while keeping the device centered over one location on a patient.

The microchip is connected to a computer via a USB cord, while the ultrasound
device itself is connected through any type of visual cord, be it USB, HDMI or
DVI. As long as the ultrasound machine has a video output—which nearly all of
them do—the new device can upgrade it to three dimensions.

“We’ve tried it on all types of ultrasound machines made by GE, Siemens,
Philips, SonoSite—you name it—and it’s worked every time without any previous
testing,” said Broder. “After a quick arc or twist of the probe, the software
churns out a 3-D image in a matter of seconds.”

The invention is currently being tested in clinical trials at both Duke and
Stanford, and the study presented at the research forum is a perfect example
of its utility.

Some newborns need brain imaging to diagnose congenital problems, but infants
are notoriously difficult to scan. MRI machines require stillness over an
extended period of time to achieve high resolution, which means either
sedating the baby or settling for a lower resolution. CT scans provide
excellent 3-D images, but expose the infant to radiation.

Both require the baby be put into a large machine and cost a lot of money.
Neither are good options.

In the study, physicians were able to take a normal ultrasound probe upgraded
with the 3-D conversion kit, center it above the infant’s head, twist the
probe 180 degrees, and get 3-D images of similar quality to either CT or MRI.
The whole process took a few seconds and was completed while the babies were
still in their mothers’ arms.

“Ultrasound is such a beautiful technology because it’s inexpensive, it’s
portable, and it’s completely safe in every patient,” said Broder. “And it’s
brought to the bedside and it doesn’t interfere with patient care.”

According to Broder, the 3-D upgrade kit is “months away from being ready for
primetime.” It has come a long way since he envisioned it in 2014, and he
attributes its success to the resources available at both Duke and Stanford.

After spending his spare time on it as a labor of love for a year, Broder
sought help from Bob Barnes, an instructor in Duke’s Masters of Engineering
Management program who leads a course on creating biomedical devices. Barnes
introduced Broder to the Duke engineers who would come to form the team behind
the success of the new device: Matt Morgan, an undergraduate at the time who
is now in graduate school at Duke, and Carl Herickhoff and Jeremy Dahl, who
were both biomedical engineering instructors and professors at Duke.

Herickhoff and Dahl have since taken positions at the Stanford University
School of Medicine, where they continue to develop the device. Their effort is
supported by Stanford’s branch of the Wallace H. Coulter Foundation, which
supports collaborative translational research projects at several
universities, including Duke.

The team also had initial help with the patenting and company formation
through the Duke Office of Licensing and Ventures. More recent support has
come from grants from the Emergency Medicine Foundation and General Electric,
which are funding clinical trials for the device’s use to locate and identify
bleeding and hemorrhages in patients with traumatic shock.

The team believes their current clinical trials and support will allow them to
bring their idea to market in only a couple of years. They envision a wide
range of benefits, such as bringing 3-D imaging to limited-resource areas both
at home around the world and lowering the cost of care. They are also working
to bridge some of the gaps between their work-around 3-D technology and
current 3-D ultrasound devices, such as the ability to capture a beating heart
in motion.

With the resources available to them, Broder has high expectations for the
coming years.

“I have been working at Duke since 2005 but my focus had always been on taking
care of patients, conducting clinical research with existing imaging
technologies and educating residents,” said Broder. “I look back and can’t
believe that I was as blind as I was to the opportunities of having a world-
class university with an engineering school focused on innovation and
collaboration right down the street. It really broadened my horizons to what
was possible.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

