

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# 2020 Triangle Hard Matter Workshop Was a Resounding Success

December 16, 2020 | Elizabeth Witherspoon

Milestone inaugural event for Duke Materials Initiative features top speakers
and 300+ attendees

In a year of compressed academic calendars and virtual conferences, the Duke
Materials Initiative (DMI) pivoted from holding the first Triangle Hard Matter
Workshop in person to hosting the event virtually. Over 300 faculty,
postdoctoral associates and PhD students from not only Duke, North Carolina
State and the University of North Carolina – Chapel Hill, but also from across
the U.S. and overseas, including Germany and China, attended the event. Each
of the sessions, focused on one of three tracks: Energy Materials,
Metamaterials and Quantum Materials, attracted over 100 attendees.

“We went from initial discussions, through planning and execution of this
event under extraordinary circumstances,” said Stefan Zauscher, director of
DMI and a professor in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering
and Materials Science (MEMS). “I am so proud of the faculty, staff, students
and postdocs from a range of departments – as well as our distinguished
speakers – who came together to make this event a success. Collaboration
really is a core strength of DMI and Duke, and this is another example of
that.”

The decision to go forward with the workshop in this most unusual year added
to that strength, leaders said.

“For me personally, this workshop was very productive as I learned a lot about
what some of my colleagues at Duke work on and even started two very exciting
collaborations!” said Natalia Litchinitser, professor of electrical & computer
engineering and organizer of the Metamaterials track.

What began at the beginning of the pandemic lockdown in March as planning for
an in-person meeting turned into a period of uncertainty followed by a full
pivot to a virtual platform when it became clear that physical distancing
would last through 2020 and beyond. Not only that, as hopes were dashed for
hosting an on-campus event amid the autumn colors of a Fall Break at Duke,
with tours of facilities and the personal networking central to these events,
the organizers decided to move the event to a time after the compressed
semester ended. Despite these adversities, the workshop turned out to be a
resounding success.

> “I learned a lot about what some of my colleagues at Duke work on and even
> started two very exciting collaborations!”
>
> Natalia Litchinitser, professor of electrical & computer engineering and
> organizer of the Metamaterials track

“This was one of the best-organized virtual workshops I've attended in the
COVID era,” wrote Jeremy Carlo, associate professor of physics at Villanova
University. “And because of travel time and end-of-semester responsibilities,
it would have been very difficult for me to attend if not in the virtual
format.”

Sara Haravifard, the William M. Fairbank Assistant Professor of Physics and
organizer of the Quantum Materials track, invited Carlo and other colleagues
from across the U.S. and overseas.

To pull it off, the organizers used a combination of Zoom links for delivery
of the opening remarks by Zauscher, Valerie Ashby, Dean of Duke’s Trinity
College of Arts & Sciences; Ravi Bellamkonda, Dean of Duke’s Pratt School of
Engineering; plenary talks by Mercouri Kanatzidis, Professor of Chemistry,
Northwestern University; Sir John Pendry, Professor of Physics, Imperial
College of London; and Robert Cava, Professor of Chemistry, Princeton
University.

Scientific research sessions by track ran concurrently, with additional
sessions featuring talks by representatives from national laboratories and the
Triangle universities’ shared instrumentation facilities.

For the 90-minute poster session, authors of each of the 33 posters remained
in separate breakout rooms so attendees could drop in and out the same way
attendees wander through a large conference center hall and speak to different
poster authors at in-person science conferences.

“To me, the surprise was how engaging the poster session turned out to be,”
said Olivier Delaire, Associate Professor in MEMS and organizer of the Energy
Materials track. “I could tell people really enjoyed live one-on-one chats and
bumping into colleagues in front of posters. It could have lasted longer, and
we could have all enjoyed a cold one while we strolled through more posters
after judging.”

Awardees for best posters will receive Amazon gift cards. They were:

**Postdocs/Early Career Scientists Winner:**

Yi Yao, Duke/UNC-CH, Poster #4 Energy Materials

Title: "Neural Network Assisted First Principles Molecular Dynamics Simulation
of Liquid Water with MP2 and RPA: Temperature Dependence of the Dynamical
Properties and the Nuclear Quantum Effect"

**Runner Up:** Zhenzhong Shi, Duke, Poster #25 Quantum Materials

Title: "High Pressure Neutron Scattering Studied of the Plaquette State of the
Shastry-Sutherland Compound SrCu2(BO3)2"

**Graduate Students Winner:**

Yang Deng, Duke, Poster #20 Metamaterials

Title: "Deep Learning for the Inverse Design of All-Dielectric Metasurfaces"

Advisor: Willie Padilla (Duke ECE)

**Runner Up:** Matthew Chagnot, NCSU, Poster #15 Energy Materials

Title: "Understanding Li+ Intercalation into Hydrated Layered Molybdenum
Oxides"

Advisor: Veronica Augustyn, (NCSU MSE)

## Related News

August 09, 2020

### Duke Materials Initiative Expands to Include Sustainable Materials
Research

May 18, 2020

### ‘Vortex Microlaser’ Encodes Information in Twisting Beams of Light

April 13, 2020

### New Handle for Controlling Electromagnetic Properties Could Enable
Spintronic Computing

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

