

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Awarded $12M Research Grant to Use Artificial Intelligence to Detect
Autism

September 7, 2022 | By Alexis Porter

Duke ECE and CEE faculty will use AI to identify and track behavioral
characteristics associated with autism

_From Duke Health_

The Duke Center for Autism and Brain Development has been awarded a $12
million federal grant to develop artificial intelligence tools for detecting
autism during infancy and identifying brain-based biomarkers of autism.

The grant, from the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development,
extends the Duke Autism Center of Excellence research program for an
additional 5 years.

Geraldine Dawson, Ph.D., director of the Duke Center for Autism and Brain
Development and professor of psychiatry and behavioral sciences, will lead a
team of researchers that includes Duke faculty from psychiatry, pediatrics,
biostatistics and bioinformatics, computer and electrical engineering, and
civil and environmental engineering.

“We are thrilled to receive this award, which allows Duke to remain at the
forefront of autism research,” Dawson said. “Our goal is to use advanced
computational techniques to develop better methods for autism screening that
will reduce known disparities in access to early diagnosis and intervention.”

> “Our goal is to use advanced computational techniques to develop better
> methods for autism screening that will reduce known disparities in access to
> early diagnosis and intervention.”
>
> geraldine dawson

In a project led by Dawson and Guillermo Sapiro, Ph.D., professor of
electrical and computer engineering, researchers will test a digital app, used
by parents at home on a smart phone, to videotape young children’s behavior
and interactions with their caregivers. Artificial intelligence will
automatically code the videotapes to identify behavioral characteristics of
infants and toddlers who are later diagnosed with autism and track their
development.

A second project, led by Benjamin Goldstein, Ph.D., associate professor of
biostatistics and bioinformatics, and Gary Maslow, M.D., associate professor
of psychiatry and behavioral sciences, will use artificial intelligence to
analyze 260,000 health insurance claims, including those from 6,000 children
diagnosed with autism, from birth to 18 months.

That data will be used to develop an algorithm to predict autism during
infancy and identify the nature of early medical conditions associated with a
later diagnosis of autism. Based on the algorithm, a team led by Lauren Franz,
M.D., assistant professor of psychiatry and behavioral sciences, will develop
support tools to help primary care providers screen and guide patients.

The third project, led by Kimberly Carpenter, Ph.D., assistant professor of
psychiatry and behavioral sciences, and David Carlson, Ph.D., assistant
professor of civil and environmental engineering, will use artificial
intelligence to monitor brain wave activity, which is synchronized with
videotaped behavior of three- to six-year-old children diagnosed with autism.
The data will be used to identify brain networks associated with behaviors
characteristic of autism.

The Duke Center for Autism and Brain Development has been an NIH Autism Center
of Excellence since 2017. It is part of a trans-NIH initiative that supports
large-scale studies on autism spectrum disorders with the goal of determining
autism's causes and potential therapies.

Discover more about the evolution of the "Autism and Beyond" app:

  * 2014: Screening for Autism: There's an App for That
  * 2015: Duke Launches Autism Research App with Global Reach
  * 2017: Duke Receives $12.5 Million to Study Children With Autism and ADHD  

  * 2018: Mobile App for Autism Screening Yields Useful Data
  * 2019: Researchers Are Using Machine Learning to Screen for Autism in
    Children

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

