

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# $3 Million NIH Grant to Further 3-D Tissue Chip Research at Duke

September 23, 2014 | By Ken Kingery

Duke researchers receive grant renewal of more than $3 million to fund second
phase of a project to create integrated tissue chips for testing
pharmaceuticals

One of the more difficult aspects of developing new pharmaceuticals is
predicting the wide variety of ways that the human body will react to them.
Researchers can expose new drugs to individual animal or human cells and
conduct animal studies to try to determine their effects, but the results
aren’t always telling.

In fact, approximately 80 percent of candidate drugs fail in clinical trials
because they are found to be unsafe or ineffective in humans. More than 30
percent of promising medications fail due to toxicity. Besides being
disheartening, these failure rates add to the prohibitively expensive costs of
drug development.

The National Institutes of Health (NIH) is trying to find a better way. For
the past two years, they have funded a number of teams working in the Tissue
Chip for Drug Screening program to improve ways of predicting drug safety and
effectiveness. The program’s goal is to create 3-D human tissue chips and
combine them into an integrated system that mimics the complex functions of
the human body, so that promising pharmaceuticals can be better tested before
entering human trials.

On September 23, the NIH announced funding for the next stage of the program.
Led by the National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences (NCATS), the
program will support 11 institutions at $17 million in 2014, including a team
at Duke University.

Led by George Truskey, senior associate dean for research in the Pratt School
of Engineering, Duke’s team has spent the past two years developing a
microphysiological system for skeletal muscle and small diameter blood vessels
using human primary cells. Their goal is to make a miniaturized
muscle/vascular system that behaves like a real person’s and can interact with
similar chips mimicking other organ systems.

The group has already developed human skeletal muscle bundles that contract,
exhibit key physiological behaviors and replicate the typical response to a
number of drugs. For the next phase, they have received a grant renewal for
more than $3 million over the next three years to further develop the
platform. Their goals are to develop human skeletal muscle tissue to evaluate
physiological and pathophysiological responses, develop engineered blood
vessel systems that mimic disease states and assess the system’s response to
drugs with known side effects.

Working on the project with Truskey are Nenad Bursac, the Rooney Family
Associate Professor of Bioengineering at Duke; William Reichert, the Alan L.
Kaganov Professor of Biomedical Engineering at Duke; Charles Gersbach,
assistant professor of biomedical engineering at Duke; William Kraus,
professor of medicine and nursing at Duke University Medical Center; Timothy
Koves, assistant professor of medicine at Duke University Medical Center; Kam
Leong, professor of biomedical engineering at Columbia University; and Xuanhe
Zhao, assistant professor of mechanical engineering at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology.

Fifteen NIH Institutes and Centers are involved in the program. Current
funding is being provided by NCATS, the National Institute for Biomedical
Imaging and Bioengineering, the National Cancer Institute, Eunice Kennedy
Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, National
Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, NIH Common Fund, and NIH Office of
Research on Women’s Health.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

