

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Acoustic Cloaking Device Hides Objects from Sound

March 11, 2014 | By Ken Kingery

Duke engineers build world’s first 3-D acoustic cloaking device

Using little more than a few perforated sheets of plastic and a staggering
amount of number crunching, Duke engineers have demonstrated the world’s first
three-dimensional acoustic cloak. The new device reroutes sound waves to
create the impression that both the cloak and anything beneath it are not
there.

The acoustic cloaking device works in all three dimensions, no matter which
direction the sound is coming from or where the observer is located, and holds
potential for future applications such as sonar avoidance and architectural
acoustics.

The study appears online in Nature Materials.

“The particular trick we’re performing is hiding an object from sound waves,”
said Steven Cummer, professor of electrical and computer engineering at Duke
University. “By placing this cloak around an object, the sound waves behave
like there is nothing more than a flat surface in their path.”

To achieve this new trick, Cummer and his colleagues turned to the developing
field of metamaterials—the combination of natural materials in repeating
patterns to achieve unnatural properties. In the case of the new acoustic
cloak, the materials manipulating the behavior of sound waves are simply
plastic and air. Once constructed, the device looks like several plastic
plates with a repeating pattern of holes poked through them stacked on top of
one another to form a sort of pyramid.

To give the illusion that it isn’t there, the cloak must alter the waves’
trajectory to match what they would look like had they had reflected off a
flat surface. Because the sound is not reaching the surface beneath, it is
traveling a shorter distance and its speed must be slowed to compensate.

“The structure that we built might look really simple,” said Cummer. “But I
promise you that it’s a lot more difficult and interesting than it looks. We
put a lot of energy into calculating how sound waves would interact with it.
We didn’t come up with this overnight.”

To test the cloaking device, researchers covered a small sphere with the cloak
and “pinged” it with short bursts of sound from various angles. Using a
microphone, they mapped how the waves responded and produced videos of them
traveling through the air.

Cummer and his team then compared the videos to those created with both an
unobstructed flat surface and an uncloaked sphere blocking the way. The
results clearly show that the cloaking device makes it appear as though the
sound waves reflected off an empty surface.

Although the experiment is a simple demonstration showing that the technology
is possible and concealing an evil super-genius’s underwater lair is a long
ways away, Cummer believes that the technique has several potential commercial
applications.

“We conducted our tests in the air, but sound waves behave similarly
underwater, so one obvious potential use is sonar avoidance,” said Cummer.
“But there’s also the design of auditoriums or concert halls—any space where
you need to control the acoustics. If you had to put a beam somewhere for
structural reasons that was going to mess up the sound, perhaps you could fix
the acoustics by cloaking it.”

This research was supported by Multidisciplinary University Research
Initiative grants from the Office of Naval Research (N00014-13-1-0631) and
from the Army Research Office (W911NF-09-1-00539).

###

“Three-dimensional broadband omnidirectional acoustic ground cloak,” Zigoneanu
L., Popa, B., Cummer, S.A. Nature Materials, March 9, 2014. DOI:
10.1038/NMAT3901

Download a free PDF of the publication

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

