

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# AI Spots Individual Neurons in the Eye Better than Human Experts

May 4, 2021 | Michaela Kane

Deep learning-based algorithm can potentially improve diagnosis of eye and
brain diseases

A new combination of optical coherence tomography (OCT), adaptive optics and
deep neural networks should enable better diagnosis and monitoring for neuron-
damaging eye and brain diseases like glaucoma.

Biomedical engineers at Duke University led a multi-institution consortium to
develop the process, which easily and precisely tracks changes in the number
and shape of retinal ganglion cells in the eye.

This work appears in a paper published on May 3 in the journal Optica.

The retina of the eye is an extension of the central nervous system. Ganglion
cells are one of the primary neurons in the eye that process and send visual
information to the brain. In many neurodegenerative diseases like glaucoma,
ganglion cells degenerate and disappear, leading to irreversible blindness.
Traditionally, researchers use OCT, an imaging technology similar to
ultrasound that uses light instead of sound, to peer beneath layers of eye
tissue to diagnose and track the progression of glaucoma and other eye
diseases.

Although OCT allows researchers to efficiently view the ganglion cell layer in
the retina, the technique is only sensitive enough to show the thickness of
the cell layer — it can’t reveal individual ganglion cells. This hinders early
diagnosis or rapid tracking of the disease progression, as large quantities of
ganglion cells need to disappear before physicians can see the changes in
thickness.

To remedy this, a recent technology called adaptive optics OCT (AO-OCT)
enables imaging sensitive enough to view individual ganglion cells. Adaptive
optics is a technology that minimizes the effect of optical aberrations that
occur when examining the eye, which are a major limiting factor in achieving
high-resolution in OCT imaging.

“This higher resolution makes it easier to diagnose neurodegenerative
diseases,” said Sina Farsiu, Professor of Biomedical Engineering at Duke. “But
it also generates such a large amount of data that image analysis has become a
major bottleneck in wide utilization of this potentially game-changing
technology in eye and brain research.”

In their new paper, Farsiu and Somayyeh Soltanian-Zadeh, a postdoctoral
researcher in Farsiu’s lab, devise a solution to this problem by developing a
highly adaptive and easy-to-train deep learning-based algorithm that is the
first to identify and trace the shapes of ganglion cells from AO-OCT scans.

To test the accuracy of their approach, which they’ve dubbed WeakGCSeg, the
team analyzed AO-OCT data from retinas of both healthy and glaucoma subjects.
Their framework efficiently and accurately segmented ganglion cells from both
samples, and identified which samples came from the glaucomatous eyes based on
the number and size of ganglion cells present.

“Our experimental results showed that WeakGCSeg is actually superior to human
experts, and it’s superior to other state-of-the-art networks that can process
volumetric biomedical images,” said Soltanian-Zadeh.

In addition to diagnostic work, the team is optimistic that WeakGCSeg will
make it easier to conduct clinical trials of therapies for neurodegenerative
diseases. For example, if a study is testing a therapy for glaucoma, WeakGCSeg
can see if the therapy has slowed down cell degeneration compared to the
control group. With OCT alone, the first sign of change would require hundreds
if not thousands of cells dying, which can take months or years.

“With our technique, you’d be able to quantify the earliest change,” said
Farsiu. “Your clinical trial may also be shorter because you can see and
measure such an early effect, so there’s a lot of potential here.”

The team plans to continue their collaboration with colleagues at the Food and
Drug Administration (FDA), Indiana University, and the University of Maryland
to apply their technique to a larger cohort of patients. They are also hoping
to extend WeakGCSeg to different cell types, like photoreceptors, and diseases
of the eye, like retinitis pigmentosa and inherent retinal diseases.

WeakGCSeg also has the potential to improve diagnosis and tracking the
progression of neurological diseases. According to Farsiu, previous studies
have shown that changes in the ganglion cell layer are associated with various
diseases of the central nervous system, like Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s
disease, and ALS. With their new technique, they can further study this
connection and potentially discover helpful biomarkers for improved diagnosis
and treatment for these and other neurodegenerative diseases.

“We’re incredibly grateful to our collaborators at the FDA and Indiana
University for providing us with samples to test WeakCGSeg,” said Farsiu. “And
this work could not have been possible without the pioneering works of Donald
Miller at Indiana University and Zhuolin Liu and Daniel Hammer at FDA in
advancing the AO-OCT imaging technology. It is exciting to see the impact of
such in vivo single-neuron imaging technologies on healthcare in the next
decade.”

This work was supported by the U.S. National Institutes of Health
(K23-EY025014, P30-EY005722, R01-EY018339, R01-EY029808, R01-EY030124,
R21-EY029804), the U.S. Food and Drug Administration Critical Path Initiative
(CPi) Grant, Research to Prevent Blindness (Unrestricted to Duke Eye Center)
and the Hartwell Foundation Postdoctoral Fellowship.

Donald Miller, Kazuhiro Kurokawa, Furu Zhang and Zhuolin Liu have a patent on
AO-OCT technology. Osamah Saeedi received personal fees and nonfinancial
support from Heidelberg Engineering, and a grant from Vasoptic Medical Inc.
outside the scope of this work.

CITATION: “Weakly-Supervised Individual Ganglion Cell Segmentation from
Adaptive Optics OCT Images for Glaucomatous Damage Assessment,” Somayyeh
Soltanian-Zadeh, Kazuhiro Kurokawa, Zhuolin Liu, Furu Zhang, Osamah Saeedi,
Daniel Hammer, Donald Miller, Sina Farsiu. Optica, May 3, 2021.
DOI:10.1364/OPTICA.418274

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

