

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Collier and Gersbach Elected to AIMBE College of Fellows

February 1, 2017

Honor represents top two percent of most accomplished and distinguished
medical and biological engineers

Two faculty members of Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering have been
elected to the College of Fellows at the American Institute for Medical and
Biological Engineering (AIMBE). Joel Collier, associate professor of
biomedical engineering, was elected “for pioneering contributions to the
design of immunologically active biomaterials,” and Charles Gersbach, the
Rooney Family Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, was elected for
“outstanding contributions to the fields of biomolecular and genome
engineering, synthetic biology, gene therapy, and genomics and epigenomics.”

With these elections, Duke Biomedical Engineering now includes 24 faculty
members in the AIMBE College of Fellows—which represents the top two percent
of the most accomplished and distinguished medical and biological engineers
responsible for innovation and discovery. Members’ nominations are peer-
reviewed by a selection committee and then voted on by the entire College of
Fellows.

Collier’s research focuses on using synthetic materials to push the immune
system toward better outcomes for patients. His group designs synthetic
peptides, proteins and other biomolecules so that they predictably self-
assemble into structures such as nanoparticles, nanofibers and gels, which can
engage the immune system in precise, engineerable ways. He recently joined
Pratt to take advantage of Duke’s outstanding environment in biomedical
engineering research and clinical translation.

Currently, Collier and his colleagues are working on immunotherapies to fight
chronic inflammatory conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis, immunotherapies
for cancer, vaccines against infectious diseases such as influenza and HIV,
and wound healing.

Gersbach’s research concentrates on developing technologies for manipulating
the genome to correct genetic diseases and to better understand the role of
gene regulation in development, disease progression, and drug response. After
working with earlier gene editing technologies, Gersbach’s attention has
focused more recently on CRISPR/Cas9—a viral defense mechanism found in
bacteria that was coopted by researchers to target specific DNA sequences in
human cells.

Gersbach was recently among the the first researchers to successfully treat a
genetic disorder in adult mice, using CRISPR to alleviate symptoms of Duchenne
muscular dystrophy. He has also created several research platforms with the
technology, such as the ability to turn genes on and off with light and
through epigenetic markers.

AIMBE is a nonprofit, honorific society that serves as the authoritative voice
and advocate for the value of medical and biological engineering to society.
It is an organization of leaders in their fields, consisting of academic,
industrial, and professional society councils; and the individually-elected
members of the College of Fellows.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

