

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Alternatives: Off the Beaten Path

May 12, 2019

Three alumni discuss how they used their biomedical engineering background to
explore career paths outside of the traditional engineering world

#### Garheng Kong, MD, PhD, MBA

#### Founder and Managing Partner of HealthQuest Capital in San Francisco Bay
Area, CA | Advisor: Mark Dewhirst

_Garheng Kong earned his PhD, MD and MBA from Duke University, where his
research centered on liposomal drug delivery for cancer treatment. Combining
his extensive background in engineering, medicine and business, Kong founded
venture-capital firm HealthQuest Capital in 2012 with the aim of working with
innovative entrepreneurs to transform healthcare._

##### How did you make the transition from Duke BME to your current role at
HealthQuest Capital? What inspired this transition?

My professional motivation has always been to reach people positively through
healthcare at scale. Many of my family members are physi-cians, and I
originally went to medical school to care for people. I realized that to have
impact on more people, I wanted to pursue translational science and Duke BME
was a fantastic oppor-tunity to learn the skills where I might one day advance
medicine and reach many more people. I was fortunate that my PhD research had
near-term clinical application, however, I also learned that medical
innovations need to be commercial-ized to actually ever reach a patient.
That’s when I spent time in pharma (GlaxoSmithKline), strategy consulting
(McKinsey), and eventually healthcare startup companies (Cellective Ther-
apeutics and Viamet Pharmaceuticals). After working in small startups, I
understood that I could have even more scale if I helped finance a portfolio
of these companies that were develop-ing innovations to improve patient
outcomes and healthcare economics. It was this progres-sion of realizations
that ultimately led me into the investing world and to eventually founding
HealthQuest Capital.

##### What does your role as a managing partner at HealthQuest Capital
typically involve?

We have a great group of investment and back office professionals that work
together as a team. My role is to ensure that we partner with the best
companies driving healthcare innovation and support these companies as they
grow. A typical day might include tive new investments, engaging in diligence
on these opportunities, attending board meetings of current portfolio
companies, and internal firm management. I’m usually traveling two to three
days per week. One of the nice aspects of our industry is that you can work
from almost anywhere as long as you have a connected phone and computer. You
still have to meet in-person, but the efficiency of our business is very high.

##### How did your time in Duke BME prepare you to succeed?

Duke BME was a valuable experience for me during a formative time in my
development. In addition to critical thinking, I learned how to conduct
scientific research and was given oppor-tunities to explore multiple
professional avenues. Dr. Dewhirst was a wonderful advisor who was really
focused on my personal development and was a fantastic mentor to me. After
graduating Duke BME, the benefits of being an alumnus were also tangible—both
due to the institution’s reputation but also due to the deep network of alumni
who preceded and supported me.

##### Is there an experience that defined your time in Duke BME?

The area of research that I was focused on was drug delivery—principally for
the treatment of cancer. One particularly memorable moment for me was seeing
the treatment of a patient in a clinical trial that incorporated some aspects
of our work. One can cure all the mice in the world of cancer, but it’s not
comparable to seeing a single patient potentially benefit. It really brought
home to me the significance and opportunity of advancing medicine.

* * *

#### Lauren Polstein Toth, PhD

#### Sr. Principal Engineer, Northrop Grumman Advisor: Charles Gersbach

_Lauren Toth studied genetic engineering as a PhD student in Duke University’s
Department of Biomed-ical Engineering. As a senior principal engineer at
Northrop Grumman, she’s applying her experience in arenas from health to
security._

##### Tell us about your research at Duke BME.

I was a PhD student in Charlie Gersbach’s lab, where I engineered light-
inducible systems that can activate genes in any specific location or pattern
in a lab dish by turning on blue light. This technology could potentially
allow a scientist to pick any gene on a chromosome and turn it on or off with
light, which could allow us to better study genes’ functions and create com-
plex systems for growing tissue. My goal was to induce muscular tissue and
vascular formation in response to blue light.

##### How did you get the position at Northrop Grumman?

When I was in graduate school I went to a Northrop Grumman information ses-
sion, and the speaker suggested that I apply to the Future Technical Leaders
Program. The program allows employees to rotate through different specialties
within the company to get a wide variety of experiences. It was targeted
towards recent graduates with master’s or PhD degrees, and I ended up applying
and getting an offer. I took a leap of faith in taking the job, which was
intimidating since it involved experiences outside biomedical engineering and
I was worried I’d be a fish out of water.

##### What did your different roles in the program involve?

When you start, you do three one-year rotations through different groups
within the company. You can occupy positions in research, project management,
strategy, program execution, and other roles. In my first placement I served
as the genomics and molecular/synthetic biology expert within the Personalized
Healthcare Group, so I ended up working with research I was more familiar
with. My next rotation involved devising a secure mobile data solution, which
was outside anything I’d ever done. For my final rotation, I helped manage the
Technology Services Sector’s innovation program while taking on the new role
of business development and capture for the New York City Wireless Network
program. Now I’m a senior principal engineer with Northrop Grumman in NYC.

##### How did your time at Duke BME prepare you for your role at Northrop
Grumman?

Even when I wasn’t working directly with my biomedical engineering background,
a lot of the things I did for my PhD really helped with the role. I did a lot
of technical writing, and the presentation skills from lab meetings and con-
ferences helped me get comfortable speaking to people in a formal setting.

##### Was there an experience that particularly sticks out to you during your
time in Duke BME?

The first thing that comes to mind is the first time I got a “good” result in
lab. For months during my first year, I had been tweaking con-ditions to get
my light-inducible cells to work, and I saw one experiment fail after another.
I definitely started losing my confidence. I was in lab one night running an
assay, and as I saw the values pop up on the screen while the test was
running, I couldn’t believe my eyes because something finally worked!
Everything clicked into place after that, and I had enough data to publish my
first paper within a few months. Grad school definitely teaches you how to
persevere and remain optimistic despite repeated failures, and I’ve carried
that lesson with me into my career today.

* * *

#### Matthew Rinehart, BSE, PhD

#### Senior Optical Engineer, Waymo, Mountain View, CA Advisor: Adam Wax

_Matt Rinehart got the most out of his decade at Duke, first earning his
bachelor’s degrees in biomedical engineering and electrical engineering before
pursuing a PhD in biomedical engineering. Leveraging his background in optical
sciences, Rinehart worked at Skybox, where he built camera and telescope
systems for space satellites, before transitioning to Waymo, where he works on
sensing technology for self-driving cars._

##### What was the focus of your research during your time in Duke BME?

I focused on advanced microscopy and its potential biomedical applications. I
specifically developed instrumentation and processing meth-ods for holographic
microscopy. The instruments enabled single-shot capture of dynamic events,
like cells moving through microstructures. I also studied the biophysical
properties of red blood cells and the dynamic properties of microbicide
polymers as they swelled and dissolved, which was important for the study of
targeted drug delivery.

##### How did your time in Duke BME prepare you for your current career path?

I spent a decade at Duke in biomedical and electrical engineering—four years
as an under-grad followed by six years in the PhD program. During this time, I
learned really solid engi-neering fundamentals in signal processing and
instrument design. More importantly, I was given the latitude to perform
independent research and pursue concepts that seemed interesting to me. This
led me to develop skills spanning problem definition, experimental design &
planning, hands-on system development, image processing and data analysis
(coding), and synthesis/inter-pretation of results.

Dr. Wax’s mentorship style pushed me to really clarify goals for myself and
then continue proj-ects until we had meaningful results. Now in my career, I
find that my ability to dig into thorny technical problems and rigorously
troubleshoot is invaluable. I also developed a deep knowledge of photonics and
imaging principles that I use quite frequently in my work in industry.

##### How do these skills translate to your job at Waymo? What drew you to
this non-BME career path?

Although my current projects don’t have bio-medical motivations, my technical
background in instrumentation, sensor systems and data analysis has translated
really well. I transitioned to Waymo for a few reasons. It was a great chance
to be part of a good team of strong engineers that work really well together,
and I wanted to work on higher volume products that would be used by a lot of
people. I also realized that while I had a great background in design
engineering and prototyping, I still knew very little about product life cycle
and scaling a device to mass production manufacturing. At Waymo, I have the
opportu-nity to contribute to the full product life cycle from concept all the
way through mass produc-tion. It’s really satisfying to see sensor systems
that I have worked end up on cars that drive on public roads every day.

##### Is there an experience that made your time in the department unique?

I spent many Friday afternoons hanging out with a core group of other BME
students outside of Twinnies. We had a “classy beer club” tradition, and it
was a great time to get out of the lab, meet other folks around CIEMAS, chat
about research, and develop friendships. Even though all of us from that group
are scattered around the country, those are the friends from school that I
keep in touch with. Several of those engineers have gone on to faculty
positions at other univer-sities so it’s nice to still hear updates from
within the academic research community.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

