

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Alumni Profile: Costi Shami

November 21, 2016

Vehicle Performance Engineer-Autonomous Vehicles, General Motors

  
_MS, Mechanical Engineering, 2014_  
 _BS, Mechanical Engineering, 2013_

**Tell us about your career after graduating from Duke as a mechanical
engineer.**

I work at General Motors and my official title is vehicle performance engineer
in autonomous vehicles, working specifically with motion controls—the
steering, the braking and the propulsion system. We’re implementing new
technology for a driver monitor system, trying to keep the driver constantly
engaged with the road. I’ve also been working directly with Cruise Automation
out in San Francisco, which GM recently acquired, on full vehicle integration.
We’re implementing autonomous technology within the vehicle instead of making
an add-on component. I work with a lot of the software engineers to understand
what their code is doing at a relatively high level and integrate it with the
car’s internal systems.

**What about your time here at Duke helped you get ready for this role?**

Duke has prepared me incredibly. From day one, the focus was on projects. I
know Dean Bellamkonda is going to be pushing for design project integration
into every year, and I can’t be more supportive of that kind of approach. Any
time you can put theoretical knowledge into a project, it’s very tangible and
you learn a lot from it. I found that the transition into the auto industry
was pretty seamless because I had the confidence that I would be able to apply
my education in any situation.

Outside of the classroom, I was part of the Duke Motorsports team for all five
years I was here. That also gave me experience to draw on to build intuition
that a lot of other engineers don’t necessarily have. Now I’m at the leading
edge of a new technology, and I couldn’t do it without my Duke education.

**Was there any specific project or experience that really helped you get
ready for this job?**

It was the motorsports team for sure. I learned time management and
fundamentals of working with materials. I had to draw on things that I learned
in class to apply them to something real. Even though it was outside the
classroom, I had to apply everything I learned in the curriculum. But my
interest in cars and time with the motorsports team wasn’t the only reason GM
hired me. When we are recruiting, we really look for passion about applying
engineering in any capacity—any type of internship or previous experience,
even in labs or extracurricular projects…anything really. If we can tell a
candidate is passionate about what they were doing in applying their
knowledge, that is an ideal candidate for us.

**Outside of Duke Motorsports, was there any particular class that you
remember that helped you?**

Senior year there was a fall senior design course. It focused on the design
of, for example, a bolt. Why is it sized the way it is? How many threads per
inch do you need? We learned in class about materials science, and we learned
about its properties and forces and balancing everything. But when you
actually take two pieces of metal and torque it down, what are you actually
doing to the bolt? It’s the application of the engineering principles that
really stuck out to me, and obviously it transitioned to our senior design
class, where we had to pitch our proposals, get approval, and then build our
senior design project.

For me, that project was building an engine dyno—a big apparatus that we
hooked our Duke Motorsports engine to so that we could tune the engine. It has
these massive steel plates that absorb energy, and you basically rev it up
through its RPM band. This lets you tune it, get all the fuel and timing right
and get the ignition timing correct. In the end we had a really well running
vehicle.

**What sort of advice would you have for others at Duke who might want to go
into the automotive industry?**

The best thing I think you can do is get involved with something you’re
passionate about. Passion is very easy to portray. It’s very easy to sniff out
as a recruiter. It’s very clear when somebody is passionate and involved with
something they truly love. Find your passion, find your niche, and just live
it. And it’s not always about your GPA, so enjoying your time on campus is
also amazingly important. I can’t stress that enough. College flies by. But if
you can walk away with something you’re passionate about – a project, an
extracurricular, anything– and you can walk away satisfied, then that’s the
ultimate goal for college in my opinion.

For the auto industry, I think it’s to not be deterred about not having
automotive experience or not knowing that much about cars. The way we work at
GM is we look at things from a subsystem component level and build it up into
larger and larger systems and eventually the whole car. You don’t have to
understand the big picture to be really good at designing a component or
working with a specific subsystem. That’s what Duke does best. We’re taught
the fundamentals, the first principles, and we can apply it in any type of
project that’s thrown our way.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

