

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Researchers Discover Anti-Laser Masquerading as Perfect Absorber

February 15, 2019 | By Ken Kingery

With a tweak of only 0.3 millimeters, a material designed to absorb all light
of a specific color demands the waves be synchronized as well

Researchers at Duke University have discovered that a perfect absorber of
electromagnetic waves they described in a 2017 paper can easily be tweaked
into a sort of “time-reversed laser” known as a coherent perfect absorber
(CPA).

The research appeared online on January 28 in the journal _Advanced Optical
Materials_.

A laser is a device that transforms energy into coherent light, meaning the
light waves are perfectly aligned with one another. Reversing the process, a
CPA—sometimes called a time-reversed laser—is a device that absorbs all of the
energy from two identical electromagnetic waves hitting it from either side in
perfect synchrony. That is, the crests and troughs of their waves enter the
material from either side at precisely the same time.

In 2017, Willie Padilla, professor of electrical and computer engineering at
Duke, built the first material capable of absorbing nearly 100 percent of an
electromagnetic wave’s energy without containing even an atom of metal. The
device was a metamaterial—synthetic materials composed of many individual,
engineered features that together produce properties not found in nature.

This particular metamaterial featured zirconia ceramic constructed into a
surface dimpled with cylinders like the face of a Lego brick. After
computationally modeling the device’s properties by altering the cylinders’
size and spacing, the researchers realized that they had actually created a
more fundamental kind of CPA.

“We’ve studied this system before as a perfect absorber, but now we’ve figured
out that this device can be configured to be a CPA as well,” said Padilla.
“This study has shown that these seemingly different fields are actually one
and the same.”

The CPAs currently described in the literature all have only one mode. They
work when the incoming electromagnetic waves are either perfectly aligned or
perfectly out of sync. Padilla and Kebin Fan, a research assistant professor
in Padilla’s laboratory, have discovered that their perfect absorber is
actually a CPA with two overlapping modes: it can absorb both aligned and
misaligned waves.

By changing the material’s parameters so that the two modes no longer overlap,
Padilla and Fan were able to show it could easily become just like the CPAs
currently in the literature, but with much more versatility.

“Typical CPAs have only one variable, the material’s thickness,” said Fan. “We
have three: the cylinders’ radius, height and periodicity. This gives us a lot
more room to tailor these modes and put them in the frequency spectrum where
we want them, giving us a lot of flexibility for tailoring the CPAs.”

In the paper, the researchers show that their device can switch between
absorbing all phases of electromagnetic waves and only those in sync with one
another merely by increasing the height of the cylinders from 1.1 millimeters
to 1.4. With this ease of transition, they believe it should be possible to
engineer a material that can dynamically switch between the two.

“We haven’t done that yet,” said Padilla. “It is challenging, but it’s on our
agenda.”

While there aren’t currently any devices that make use of the abilities of
CPAs, Padilla and Fan have a few in mind. In principle, researchers could
engineer a device that measures not just the intensity of incoming light like
a normal camera, but also its phase.

“If you’re trying to figure out the properties of a material, the more
measurements you have, the more you can understand about the material,” said
Padilla. “And while coherent detectors do exist—we have one in our own lab,
actually—they’re extremely expensive to build through other technologies.”

This research was supported by the Department of Energy (DE-SC0014372).

CITATION: “A Zero-Rank, Maximum Nullity Perfect Electromagnetic Wave
Absorber.” Jonathan Y. Suen, Kebin Fan, and Willie J. Padilla. Advanced
Optical Materials, 2019, 1801632. DOI: 10.1002/adom.201801632

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

