

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Army Officer/Duke Engineer Aiming to Strengthen Fleet Maintenance with AI

November 11, 2022

Maj. Patrick Kuiper, a Duke ECE doctoral student, is leveraging sensor data to
improve the US Army's vehicle fleet

Before US Army Maj. Patrick Kuiper started his PhD at Duke, he served as the
executive officer, or “XO,” of an infantry battalion. An XO is second-in-
command of a unit and handles all its administration. One of Kuiper’s many
responsibilities in this role was making sure that the vehicles transporting
soldiers and critical equipment were kept serviceable and reliable.

From a practical and tactical perspective, Kuiper understands vehicle
maintenance schedules well. But in the lab of Vahid Tarokh, the Rhodes Family
Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Duke, Kuiper
is applying a different skill set to get deeper insights: math.

Tarokh and Kuiper met at Harvard, through their involvement with Draper Labs,
a US Department of Defense research organization. Kuiper was a Draper Fellow
who Tarokh mentored through his master’s program research project on
optimizing the quality of life for soldiers in temporary camps.

“When you deploy, it’s not always to an established post, like the bases in
Germany or Korea. In Afghanistan and Iraq, for example, there are temporary
camps where resources like water are scarce,” explained Kuiper, who has
deployed to both. “We have survey data about what things are important to
soldiers in these environments—like hot showers—and we can adjust how we
consume resources elsewhere to provide a better living environment for them.”

Kuiper finished his master’s degree and joined the math department at the US
Military Academy at West Point as an assistant professor. When he completed
his service as XO, he was invited to earn a PhD at Duke and return to teach at
West Point, while remaining on active duty with the Army.

Tarokh, who joined the Duke ECE faculty in 2018, was eager to bring Kuiper
into the Duke fold, and Kuiper was eager to join.

“My master’s thesis was applied research,” said Kuiper. “Now I’d like to
expand my ability to incorporate mathematical analysis—that’s where I want to
step up my game. One thing that I like about Vahid’s lab is that every project
has a theoretical foundation.”

Tarokh’s lab focuses on the fundamental attributes of algorithms that process
the huge amounts of data needed to make machine learning possible. Kuiper’s
first project in Tarokh’s lab examines one of those large data sets, which is
composed of hundreds of thousands of measurements taken by sensors inside of
the engines of military vehicles.

It’s an understatement to say that the U.S. military has a lot of vehicles,
and they are used to varying degrees. Some are taken out regularly on well-
maintained roads. Others are driven hard in the field and then parked for
weeks on end. Sometimes a vehicle benefits from infrequent use, while other
times its tires and hoses dry rot if it's idle. But there are so many vehicles
to keep track of that servicing them is based on their mileage and an annual
schedule rather than individual instances of wear and tear.

> “When you put all the different kinds of engine readings together—oil
> pressure, tire pressure—it becomes a difficult statistical quantity to work
> with. There are techniques to getting to that single outcome, but those
> techniques are not well understood. That uncertainty is where we’re
> focusing.”

Kuiper said that using sensor data to tailor maintenance will build readiness,
save the military money and conserve mechanics’ limited time.

“The idea is to get into that loop and be informed in real-time on the
vehicle’s health,” he said. “But when you put all the different kinds of
engine readings together—oil pressure, tire pressure— it becomes a difficult
statistical quantity to work with. There are techniques for getting to that
single outcome, but those techniques are not well understood. That uncertainty
is where we’re focusing.”

For critical pieces of equipment, Kuiper said, predictive maintenance is
likely to play a role in the future.

“For many decades, the Department of Defense has been at the forefront of
technological developments like the internet, satellite communications,
machine learning, brain-computer interfaces, prosthetics and more. These
technologies have improved the human condition significantly and
revolutionized the world we live in,” said Tarokh. “Patrick's PhD research,
which aims to predict when the components of planes, trains and automobiles
are likely to wear out, will contribute to this research legacy. I’m thankful
that the Department of Defense and West Point have given me the pleasure of
working with him and supporting his research.”

More News from Duke ECE

## Duke's AFRL/AFOSR University Center of Excellence

Robert Calderbank (left) and Vahid Tarokh—elected members of the prestigious
National Academy of Engineering—lead Duke's $5 million US Air Force Research
Laboratory/Air Force Office of Scientific Research University Center of
Excellence: Agile Waveform Design for Communication Networks in Contested
Environments.

The center focuses on developing communication protocols for handling the most
data-heavy tasks imaginable—such as flying unmanned autonomous vehicles.

## Related News

January 20, 2022 | Duke Science & Technology Initiative

### Duke Engineering's Tarokh: Using ML to Predict Catastrophes

November 15, 2021

### General Milley Visits Duke Engineering Labs, Faculty and Students

February 08, 2019

### Barros, Tarokh Elected Members of the National Academy of Engineering

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

