

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Artful Engineering: Prosthetics at the Duke Costume Shop

January 18, 2019

Two engineering students and the manager of the Duke Costume Shop share their
unique collaboration to build a prosthetic device.

_This story originally appeared at arts.duke.edu_

Tucked into the maze of hallways behind the Bryan Center’s theaters lies the
Duke Costume Shop. If you dropped into this room full of sewing machines,
fabrics, and hanging clothes last fall you might have met two biomedical
engineering students at work.

Master's student Lucas Hoffman and undergraduate Juan Velasquez were not
designing costumes—instead they were collaborating with Erin West, Duke’s new
Costume Shop manager, on a prosthetic system to help form clothing for people
with disabilities.

Erin West has a professional background in costume design and costume
technology. She has worked for several colleges and universities, including
Westminster College, James Madison University, Ohio University, and Washington
& Lee University. West has also worked for the Oregon Shakespeare Festival and
the American Shakespeare Center.

The Duke Costume Shop is a vital part of the UCAE Theater Operations team.
Each year, the Costume Shop oversees and designs a multitude of productions
and collaborations with campus partners such Theater Studies, American Dance
Festival, and student organizations.

In this interview by CAST member Sharon Kinsella, West talks with Hoffman and
Velasquez about the design challenge that took them from the lab to the sewing
machine.

## Q+A with Erin, Juan and Lucas

Tell us about the project. Who is it for, what is it, and why are you doing
it?

Lucas Hoffman: Our client had a procedure that left her with one arm. She had
what is called shoulder disarticulation, which removes all aspects of her
right arm up to the clavicle.

We wanted to create a system that she could use independently on a daily basis
that would basically hold her clothing up, so it’s a little bit different than
a full-scale limb prosthetic. She has tried prosthetics in the past and didn’t
really like the artificial nature of them. When she would wear a non-modified
t-shirt or sweater it would always fall off the right side of her clavicle and
she would have to constantly pull it up. We wanted to create a device or a
system that she could just slip on. Something comfortable and lightweight that
would hold her clothing up.

We realized the most difficult part was making it discrete and comfortable.
Clothing is very lightweight, so holding it up isn’t a difficult task. After
the prototype was validated, we realized we needed a little bit of expertise
help, so we reached out to Erin.

Is this project distinct or different from other projects that you’ve worked
on previously, and if so, what have been some of the rewards and challenges?

Juan Velasquez: This is the first project that made us think outside of the
box. Mostly, in every other biomedical engineering class I’ve taken,
everything that is in the lab is all you need. But once we figured out we
actually needed to know how to sew, then it was a problem.

LH: It’s really easy to get the mechanical aspect to hold the clothing up, but
to get something that is comfortable for our client to wear is something we
had to address. It was definitely challenging, and rewarding, too, to work
with a client first hand.

EW: It’s certainly a different project for me, but it was exciting, too, and
interesting. I have based my personal career goals around being able to dress
all body types and all needs. This particular scenario is something I haven’t
encountered in costumes—but I could—and now I have a new idea of how to help
support different needs.

Why is this project important to you personally, and what do you think is the
importance of collaboration across arts and engineering?

LH: This is the first time that I’ve done a project specifically for somebody
with a disability. Being able to see the impact that the device is going to
bring to our client is awesome. It was really apparent where our skillset
ended and where we needed to bring on somebody else. We would never be able to
assemble this device without Erin’s skills.

JV: Before we made our first prototypes, we 3D-printed a hard plastic case.
When we presented it to her, she said, “Oh I’m not going to put this on.” You
have to go out and explore what else is available. Two months into the project
she gave us shoulder pads that you slide into shirts and she said, “I want
something like this.” Lucas and I just looked at each other and thought,
there’s no way we can build anything remotely close to this.

EW: I think there is a weird similarity between costume design, costume
technology, and engineering. It’s obviously a really different kind of work,
but what we do in here is identify problems and find ways to solve them in a
unique way.

There’s always some kind of creative problem solving and a certain amount of
engineering and structuring and figuring out how a design is going to work in
a functional way. It seems like kind of a natural collaboration to me. Theater
is a super collaborative art form anyway, and I really like working with other
people who have different approaches and different ideas. It was fun to use
corsetry and costume construction techniques to solve this problem.

What has this project given you to think about as you continue in your
respective careers as engineers and as designers?

JV: Just the aspect of collaborating with people that have different skills
sets than you and realizing how important that is. Once you realize your
strengths and weaknesses, you’re able to collaborate more to produce a final
product.

EW: I think the arts have a big social impact and can be a benefit to
everyone. Sometimes in my little shop world, wherever I’m working, I feel like
I don’t connect with people who see the finished product—I don’t see the
audience clapping the way that the actors do. I don’t have that personal
feedback. It’s really satisfying to me to have a fitting and dress people
because every different body type and every person has their own history and
things that they’re self-conscious about. I like to take care of that without
ever having to talk about it, to create a positive experience with clothing.
Having that type of satisfaction is important, but I do always look for ways
that I can use my skillset to help outside of theatre.

This was a really neat way to be involved with actually improving someone’s
daily life, instead of their storytelling experience. So many disciplines end
up being little islands and not really interacting, so I hope other people
will reach out now that we have this connection.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

