

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Automated Feminine Hygiene Disposal for Developing Communities

November 6, 2018 | By Mara Shurgot

Demonstration system manufactured through global partnership is the size of
carry-on luggage

The lack of safe and discreet menstrual hygiene options contributes to lost
workplace productivity and missed schooling for millions of women and girls
around the world. A technical solution called S.H.E. strives to address this
pressing need.

Safe Hygiene for Everyone (S.H.E.) systems are fully automated sanitary pad
disposal units designed to thermally treat menstrual hygiene waste such as
sanitary pads and napkins. Engineered by the Duke University Center for WaSH-
AID (Water, Sanitation, Hygiene and Infectious Disease) and U.S.-based partner
Biomass Controls, LLC, the technology is now set to debut in five prototype
systems manufactured through an agreement with G K Controls, Pvt. Ltd., an
engineering firm in Pune, India.

“A safe, discreet and affordable hygiene disposal option is critical to
addressing the sanitation crisis globally,” says Brian Stoner, director of the
Center for WaSH-AID. “In many disadvantaged communities, 50 percent of the
population suffers due to insufficient access to menstrual hygiene disposal
options.”

Each S.H.E. unit is about the size of a carry-on suitcase and batch processes
up to 25 pads at a time and more than 200 pads a day. It can automatically
detect when the optimal number of pads has been reached for efficient disposal
and can be monitored remotely with an app.

S.H.E. emits virtually no smoke and produces minimal ash, resulting in a 98
percent reduction in particulate matter (PM2.5) over leading competitors.

The five systems will be demonstration units for future commercialization, and
their manufacture is a significant step in creating compact, efficient,
environmentally responsible solutions.

“Our partnership with G K Controls has been an invaluable engineering resource
over the past several years as we seek to bring gender-transformative
technologies to market for global areas of need,” says Jeff Piascik, president
of Biomass Controls.

“We are quite excited to be associated with Duke University Center for WaSH-
AID and Biomass Controls,” says Shirish Tapadia, director of G K Controls.
“This sanitation product initiative is completely in line with our willingness
to better the environment in developing countries.”

The Center for WaSH-AID is a translational research team that works closely
with more than 20 academic, non-profit, and private industry partners to
facilitate the development and sustainable deployment of novel technology-
based health solutions for resource-constrained communities around the world.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

