

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Bacterial Defense Mechanism Targets Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy

February 19, 2015 | By Ken Kingery

Gene therapy approach could treat 60 percent of Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy
patients.

Duke researchers have demonstrated a genetic therapeutic technique that has
the potential to treat more than half of the patients suffering from Duchenne
Muscular Dystrophy (DMD).

One of the challenges of treating DMD is that the disease can be caused by
mutations to a number of different DNA sequences, few of which occur with any
substantial frequency. The new technique, however, gets around this sticking
point by targeting a large region of the gene that contains many different
mutations.

The study was published on Feb. 18 online in Nature Communications.

“There are no effective therapies currently available for people with DMD,”
said Charles Gersbach, assistant professor of biomedical engineering at Duke
University. “DMD patients are in a wheelchair by age 10 and typically die in
their 20s. They have nothing to stop this right now—and we’re trying to work
on that.”

DMD is caused by problems with the body’s ability to produce dystrophin, a
long-chain protein that binds the interior of a muscle fiber to its
surrounding support structure. Dystrophin is coded by a gene with 79 genetic
“chunks” called exons. If any one exon gets a debilitating mutation, the chain
does not get built. Without dystrophin providing support, muscle tends to
shred and slowly deteriorate.

The disease affects one in 3,500 newborn males. The mutation is on the X
chromosome so female children with two copies of X should have at least one
functioning copy of the gene.

While some clinical trials are under way for drugs that restore dystrophin
production from mutant genes, they only target one exon and thus can only be
used for up to 13 percent of DMD cases. The new approach, however, can
theoretically target any region of the gene of any size. In this study, the
researchers targeted a span of 11 exons that account for 60 percent of DMD
cases.

A shortened dystrophin protein is the hallmark of a variation of the disease
called Becker Muscular Dystrophy (BMD). While the effects of BMD can vary
widely, many patients live long, full lives, and some people live with the
disease their entire lives without any significant effects.

Gersbach’s goal is to transform DMD into BMD by cutting out the genetic chain
links that are most often problematic—exons 45 through 55. To shorten the
genetic code, he is turning to a bacterial viral defense system called CRISPR.

Over the past decade, researchers discovered the CRISPR system that bacteria
use to slice the DNA of invading viruses. Soon after its discovery,
researchers hijacked the system and began using it to fix mistakes in the
human genome.

“What makes CRISPR exciting is that it is easy, cheap and fast to work with
compared to other methods scientists have been developing in the past decade,”
said David Ousterout, a graduate student in the Gersbach lab and first author
of the study.

The researchers programmed CRISPR to make cuts to the dystrophin gene before
the 45th and after the 55th exon. Sometimes only one cut is made and the body
repairs the damage. Sometimes both cuts are made, but the cell stitches the
whole sequence back together. But sometimes, after both cuts are made, the
middle of the gene floats away before the cuts can be repaired—and that’s the
outcome Gersbach is after.

If it sounds like an inefficient process, that’s because it is. Even though
CRISPR is continually cutting the gene for several days, human cells are very
good at repairing DNA damage. But due to the sheer volume of cuts specifically
at the target site, a significant fraction of the dystrophin genes are
effectively altered.

In the new study, Gersbach and his team demonstrated that the technique works
on cultured muscle cells taken from DMD patients. They also implanted these
cells into mice and showed the treated cells began making human dystrophin.

“We still need to improve the efficiency and ensure the safety of the CRISPR-
based approach,” said Gersbach. “We also need to tackle the challenge of how
this would be delivered to a DMD patient. We still have a long way to go, but
this is a very promising start.”

This work was funded by the Muscular Dystrophy Association (MDA277360), the
Duke-Coulter Translational Partnership, The Hartwell Foundation, the March of
Dimes Foundation, and the National Institutes of Health (UH3TR000505,
P30AR066527, DP2-OD008586).

# # #

"Multiplex CRISPR/​Cas9-based genome editing for correction of ​dystrophin
mutations that cause Duchenne muscular dystrophy," David G. Ousterout, Ami M.
Kabadi, Pratiksha I. Thakore, William H. Majoros, Timothy E. Reddy, Charles A.
Gersbach. Nature Communications, Feb. 18, 2015.

DOI: 10.1038/ncomms7244

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

