

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Barros, Tarokh Elected Members of the National Academy of Engineering

February 8, 2019

Duke Engineering faculty recognized for contributions to water-cycle modeling
and wireless communications

Ana Barros, the Edmund T. Pratt Jr. School Professor of Civil and
Environmental Engineering, and Vahid Tarokh, the Rhodes Family Professor of
Electrical and Computer Engineering, have been named members of the National
Academy of Engineering (NAE).

Election to the NAE is one of the highest professional distinctions for
engineers. Barros and Tarokh were among the 86 new members and 18 foreign
members announced by the NAE Thursday, and join seven other faculty at Duke
University who also hold the distinction.

Barros was cited for contributions to understanding and predicting
precipitation dynamics and flood hazards in mountainous terrains, while Tarokh
was cited for contributions to space-time coding and its applications to
multi-antenna wireless communications.

“Both Ana and Vahid represent engineering at its best,” said Ravi Bellamkonda,
Vinik Dean of the Pratt School of Engineering. “They are innovators whose work
not only advances their fields but makes the world a better place for us all.
As scholars, mentors and colleagues, they have helped make Duke Engineering a
hub for groundbreaking research in data science, computing and environmental
engineering, as well as a destination for the outstanding students they teach
and inspire.”

Barros joined the faculty of Duke Engineering in 2004 after having served on
the faculty at the University of Porto, Penn State University, and Harvard
University. Her research focuses on hydrology, hydrometeorology and
environmental physics, with a specific focus on how water-cycle processes are
coupled to complex local geographical and atmospheric features.

For example, Barros led a field campaign in 2014 to help calibrate NASA’s
newest weather satellite with ground-based sensors her group has spent years
installing in the western North Carolina mountains. This network of sensors
coupled with computer models and simulations also allow Barros and her group
to work toward increasing science’s understanding of how large weather
phenomena develop at small scales. Besides improving weather forecasts, this
research can help predict how large infrastructure projects such as dams might
affect the local microclimate decades into the future.

Barros is a fellow of the American Geophysical Union (AGU), the American
Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) and the American Association for the
Advancement of Science (AAAS). She also currently serves as a panel co-chair
of the National Academies’ 2017-2027 Decadal Survey for Earth Science and
Applications from Space.

“Professor Barros’s induction into the National Academy of Engineering
reaffirms her important contributions to the field both as a researcher and
through her history of generous service to the international community of
hydrology and environmental physics professionals,” said Mark Wiesner, chair
of civil and environmental engineering at Duke. “Her induction further
highlights the quality of the faculty in Duke’s Civil and Environmental
Engineering program, where she has also been an innovator in teaching and a
champion of diversity. It is wonderful to see her honored at the highest level
of the US engineering community."

“My heart is full of gratitude,” said Barros. “I am privileged to have had the
opportunity to work in partnership with great students and postdocs through
the years, and I am fortunate to count on wonderful colleagues and mentors. I
am thinking of my Dad today, who shared with me his love of science and
enthusiasm for learning.”

Vahid Tarokh, who holds appointments in the departments of electrical and
computer engineering, computer science, and mathematics, was a faculty member
at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology for two years and Harvard
University for 16 years before joining Duke in 2018. One of the world’s most
cited researchers in computer science, Tarokh is known for his singular
contributions to signal processing and current work to create new methods for
modeling and making predictions from small amounts of data.

While working for AT&T Labs in the late 1990s, Tarokh helped invent the
algorithms called space-time codes that most modern cellular phones use to
transmit data. During his time at Harvard, Tarokh did early foundational work
on distributed communications, spectrum sharing and cognitive radios, which
help share the spectrum in various bands. He later became interested in
researching various areas of signal processing and its applications to radar,
interferometry and biology.

At Duke, Tarokh is pursuing collaborations aimed at getting the most possible
out of small sets of data. For example, he currently has a project aimed at
determining how different people will respond after exposure to certain
viruses. And as a newly named Microsoft Data Science Investigator, he also has
ongoing collaborations focused on inventing new methods for securing and
maximizing the Internet of Things and designing brain-inspired organic
networks that can reorganize themselves.

“Vahid Tarokh has made incredible contributions across a broad spectrum of
interests, from cryptography to signal processing and analysis to mathematical
modeling of highly complex phenomena,” said Krishnendu Chakrabarty, chair of
Duke’s Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. “While his
inventions have had major impacts on industry, he also embodies the best of
academia--excellence in scholarship, thought leadership, teamwork and
collegiality. He is an inspiration to his colleagues and a role model for his
students and associates. We are fortunate to have him as a faculty colleague
at Duke.”

“I am honored and humbled by this recognition, which I owe particularly to the
work of my wonderful students, postdoctoral fellows and colleagues over the
course of my career,” said Tarokh. “Special thanks to Professor Rob Calderbank
for his mentorship and support over many years. I would also like to
acknowledge my mother and uncle who struggled to save and educate me in the
aftermath of the Iranian revolution amid tremendous hostilities of the Iranian
government.”

As members of NAE, Barros and Tarokh will help carry out the academy’s mission
of providing engineering leadership in service to the nation. They join more
than 2,500 peer-elected members and foreign members in the NAE, which serves
as an advisor to the federal government and conducts independent studies to
examine important topics in engineering and technology.

Including Barros and Tarokh, five Pratt School of Engineering faculty have
been named to the NAE in the past five years. Other current members include
Robert Calderbank, Ingrid Daubechies, Earl Dowell, Henry Petroski, Jennifer
West and Mark Wiesner; also recently elected was Duke Engineering alumnus
Blake Wilson, an adjunct professor of surgery at Duke.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

