

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# “Belonging While Black at Duke” Book Club Launched

April 1, 2021

A Duke engineer joins a Duke copyright expert to lead colleagues in exploring
issues of equity and inclusion through focused readings

Duke civil and environmental engineering faculty member Fred Boadu and Duke
Libraries’ Arnetta Girardeau, an attorney who specializes in copyright issues,
are pleased with the Duke community’s interest in their newly launched
Belonging While Black at Duke Book Club.

The book club, which has both workshop and discussion components, was formed
with support from a 2021-2022 Faculty Advancement Seed Grant and is designed
to foster discussions of inclusion and professional advancement. While the
discussion is open to all members of the Duke community, said Girardeau, it
centers on the experiences of Black faculty and staff.

Boadu and Girardeau planned for 30 spots to be available at the club’s first
meeting, which is scheduled for April 28th. Already, 52 people have signed up
to participate.

“We are working on the best way to expand the project to accommodate the
interest; it’s great,” said Girardeau. “We can open the discussions fairly
easily, but we did meet the limit on the workshop. Hopefully this demonstrates
enough interest to lead to a ‘Phase 2.’” At that point, said Girardeau, she
and Boadu will sound another call for participation.

The Belonging While Black at Duke Book Club’s April reading selection is _I’m
Still Here: Black Dignity in a World Made for Whiteness_ by Austin Channing
Brown, and the discussion will focus on resilience. Future topics will include
intersectionality, professional advancement, Black men in society and thriving
at work.

Boadu stressed that the purpose of the book club goes deeper than just
learning about the issues; it’s about using that knowledge to create
institutional changes that truly address inequity. “Events and talks
themselves do not solve problems,” said Boadu. “Using the outcomes of those
events to inform structured change—that’s what really matters.”

## Related News

November 10, 2015

### Fred Boadu Returns to Ghana to Fill Research Gaps

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

