

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Big Ideas on a Small Surface

October 29, 2019

George Truskey and Shyni Varghese use custom lab-on-a-chip technologies to
create novel models of tissues, organs and diseases

Several small slides sit in an incubator in Shyni Varghese’s lab at Duke
University, where they are connected to an assortment of machines via a
network of delicate clear tubes. Roughly the size of viewing slides used in
microscopes, these slides are actually microfluidic chips that house living
samples of cells and tissues.

Varghese, a professor of biomedical engineering at Duke University, uses this
lab-on-a-chip technology to create miniature models of tissues, organs and
even tumors.

One of the major challenges in studying disease and developing therapies
involves the different responses each provoke in different organs and tissues
in the body. Cells in the liver will react differently to disease or various
pharmaceuticals than cells in the heart, and drug reactions and disease
symptoms can also be inconsistent from person to person. Using animal models
or petri-dish studies with human cells to understand these responses has
proven less than perfect.

The Varghese lab’s chips help address this shortcoming by allowing the
researchers to mimic the disease conditions similar to that in the human body.

“Our work tries to capture the architecture of the microenvironment of the
organ within the device, so the cells are arranged the same way they’d be
arranged inside the organ, and they’re subject to the same mechanical forces
that are in the body,” says Vardhman Kumar, a PhD student in the lab who
specializes in the technology. “You can make individual organ-on-a-chip models
using cells from the gut, the skin, or even cells from the eye. Anything you
can think of in the body can be engineered and assembled on a chip.”

#### A Full-Body Model

Previously, the Varghese lab developed models for the heart and liver, but
they’ve since turned their attention to other systems, including
musculoskeletal tissues. To model this system, they created a knee joint
which, Kumar says, will allow them to examine how biomechanics and
inflammation affect joint function and health.

The team has also expanded their platform to study the lungs, creating a
tissue model that can pulsate to mimic how the lungs expand and contract as
humans inhale and exhale. In addition to enabling them to study various
physiochemical cues in normal lung development, this model allows the
researchers to recapitulate different aspects of lung diseases.

“With the lung chips, for example, we’ll be able to mimic coughing and other
behavior that’s associated with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, a lung disease
that causes scarring and difficulty breathing,” says Varghese, a Duke MEDx
investigator who also holds joint appointments in mechanical engineering and
materials science and in orthopaedic surgery at the Duke University School of
Medicine.

A larger focus for the lab, she adds, is figuring out how to integrate these
individual systems for a body-on-a-chip platform. “We want to use this
platform to test for cross-talk between different organs at the same time,
which is more realistic than studying these organs in isolation,” Varghese
says.

For example, her lab is developing “tumor on-a-chip systems” to examine the
role of the cancer microenvironment on disease progression and diagnosis. Not
only can the researchers test the efficacy of various drugs and
immunotherapies on the tumor itself, they can also study how the drugs affect
the entire body by connecting the tumor chips to the body-on-a-chip network.

“We’re trying to integrate these small-scale but very robust human-specific
models to look at how immune cells can be recruited to a tumor site and to
understand the role of the cellular environment on cancer spread and growth,”
says Varghese. “Our goal is to use this system to address large biological
questions and ultimately identify new therapeutic targets.”

#### Studying Cardiovascular Disease

A couple of buildings down from the Varghese lab, George Truskey, the R.
Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Professor of Biomedical Engineering at Duke, is
using his own version of a lab-on-achip platform to study how physical forces
affect the function of blood vessels and skeletal muscle. These sophisticated
chips contain a central well for tissue samples, and channels that can pump
nutrients and other materials into the tissue and create blood flow, mimicking
its natural environment.

Truskey and his lab initially developed the chips to model human blood vessels
so they could study cellular response to various drugs. Now, the lab has
zeroed in on how they can use these models to study the connection between
cardiovascular and autoimmune diseases.

Earlier this year, the World Health Organization reported that cardiovascular
disease is the leading cause of death worldwide, with nearly half of all
Americans suffering from the disorder.

Typically researchers use animal models, particularly mice, to study the
disease and perform initialtests for drugs, and humans are involved in the
later stages of the drug approval process. However, due to the difference
between animal and human physiology, animals don’t accurately replicate the
disease and drug response in humans, leading to failure of the drug to be
approved. By making vessels with human cells, the Truskey lab can more closely
approximate the disease and drug response in the body.

“When some individuals have a disease that causes inflammation, like lupus,
rheumatoid arthritis or Crohn’s disease, they also have a higher risk of
developing cardiovascular disease,” says Truskey. “Everyone knows that high
levels of cholesterol can put you at risk for developing cardiovascular
disease, but we want to explore the role of inflammation.”

Toward that end, Truskey and his lab have created blood vessel models that
mimic the early stages of atherosclerosis, a cardiovascular condition in which
fats and other substances build up along the walls of blood vessels, making
them thick and stiff. The team plans to combine these models with their
skeletal muscle models of rheumatoid arthritis.

“This linkage would resemble what occurs physiologically in the bloodstream,”
says Truskey. “Our rheumatoid arthritis model would essentially serve as a
reservoir for inflammation, and we’re curious if linking it with our blood
vessel model would exacerbate the symptoms of cardiovascular disease. The goal
would be to identify some novel biomarkers that may be helpful in assessing
how inflammation influences cardiovascular disease.”

#### Hope for Rare Diseases

The lab has also employed tissue chips to study rare diseases, like
Hutchinson-Gilford Progeria Syndrome. Known as progeria, the disease causes
symptoms that resemble accelerated aging in children; patients typically die
of heart disease or stroke, caused by weakened blood vessels, by the age of
14. There are less than 250 known cases worldwide.

“This disease is so rare and deadly that it’s challenging to run clinical
trials with compounds that may help alleviate symptoms associated with the
disease or provide some sort of treatment,” says Truskey. “But that’s where
our blood vessel models prove to be very helpful.”

Using induced pluripotent stem cells from patients with progeria, the team was
able to grow engineered blood vessels that displayed many of the symptoms seen
in people with the disease. This new model allowed them to test a variety of
pharmaceuticals, revealing more about the efficacy of various therapies.

After finding success with disease models, the Truskey lab has also started
using their tissue chips to study the human placental barrier in collaboration
with Liping Feng, MD, an assistant professor of obstetrics and gynecology in
the Duke University School of Medicine.

The placenta is created in the uterus during pregnancy, where it helps provide
oxygen and nutrients to the fetus. Many of the complications that occur during
pregnancy, such as pre-eclampsia, are linked with irregular placenta
development. But researchers have long struggled to study these complications
and address larger questions about pregnancy because they’ve lacked an
effective research model for the human placenta.

Using a synthetic membrane interspersed with cells from human placenta cells,
the team was able to create a model that could mimic the blood flow through a
placenta. Although the work is still in its early stages, Truskey and his
collaborators hope to use their organ-on-a-chip to better understand how
viruses, drugs and other molecules travel from the mother to the fetus.

“This technology has advanced to the point where you can create many of the
key features of tissues and organs in the lab, and that opens a lot of
possibilities—not just to understand normal function, but to model diseases,”
says Truskey. “In the end we hope that it will help speed up and improve the
drug development process if you show that these can be used as efficient
models.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

