

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Biomaterials with "Frankenstein Proteins" Help Heal Tissue

October 15, 2018 | By Michaela Kane

Biomaterial that solidifies at body temperature integrates into wounds to help
cells grow

Biomedical engineers from Duke University and Washington University in St.
Louis have demonstrated that, by injecting an artificial protein made from a
solution of ordered and disordered segments, a solid scaffold forms in
response to body heat, and in a few weeks seamlessly integrates into tissue.

The ability to combine these segments into proteins with unique properties
will allow researchers to precisely control the properties of new biomaterials
for applications in tissue engineering and regenerative medicine.

The research appears online on October 15 in the journal Nature Materials.

Proteins function by folding, origami-like, and interacting with specific
biomolecular structures. Researchers previously believed that proteins needed
a fixed shape to function, but over the last two decades there has been a
growing interest in intrinsically disordered proteins (IDPs). Unlike their
well-folded counterparts, IDPs can adopt a plethora of distinct structures.
However, these structural preferences are non-random, and recent advances have
shown that there are well-defined rules that connect information in the amino
acid sequences of IDPs to the collections of structures they can adopt.

Researchers have hypothesized that versatility in protein function is
achievable by stringing together well-folded proteins with IDPs—rather like
pearl necklaces. This versatility is obvious in biological materials like
muscle and silk fibers, which are made of proteins that combine ordered and
disordered regions, enabling the materials to exhibit characteristics like
elasticity of rubber and the mechanical strength of steel.

IDPs are instrumental to cellular function, and many biomedical engineers have
concentrated their efforts on an extremely useful IDP called elastin. A highly
elastic protein found throughout the body, elastin allows blood vessels and
organs—like the skin, uterus and lungs—to return to their original shape after
being stretched or compressed. However, creating the elastin outside the body
proved to be a challenge.

So the researchers decided to take a reductionist engineering approach to the
problem.

“We were curious to see what types of materials we could make by adding order
to an otherwise highly disordered protein,” said Stefan Roberts, a PhD student
in the lab of Ashutosh Chilkoti and first author on the paper.

Due to the challenges of using elastin itself, the research team worked with
elastin-like polypeptides (ELPs), which are fully disordered proteins made to
mimic pieces of elastin. ELPs are useful biomaterials because they can undergo
phase changes—go from a soluble to an insoluble state, or vice-versa—in
response to changes in temperature. While this makes these materials useful
for applications like long-term drug delivery, their liquid-like behavior
prevents them from being effective scaffolds for tissue engineering
applications.

But by adding ordered domains to the ELPs, Roberts and the team created
“Frankenstein” proteins that combine ordered domains and disordered regions
leading to so-called partially ordered proteins (POPs), which are equipped
with the structural stability of ordered proteins without losing the ELPs
ability to become liquid or solid via temperature changes.

Designed as a fluid at room temperature that solidifies at body temperature,
these new biomaterials form a stable, porous scaffold when injected that
rapidly integrates into the surrounding tissue with minimal inflammation and
promotes the formation of blood vessels.

“This material is very stable after injection. It doesn’t degrade quickly and
it holds its volume really well, which is unusual for a protein-based
material,” Roberts said. “Cells also thrive in the material, repopulating the
tissue in the area where it is injected. All of these characteristics could
make it a viable option for tissue engineering and wound healing.”

Although the scaffold created by the POP was stable, the team also observed
that the material would completely re-dissolve once it was cooled. What’s
more, the formation and dissolution temperatures could be independently
controlled by controlling the ratios of disordered and ordered segments in the
biomaterial. This independent tunability confers shape memories on the POPs
via a phenomenon known as hysteresis, allowing them to return to their
original shape after a temperature cue.

The Duke team collaborated with the laboratory of Rohit Pappu, the Edwin H.
Murty Professor of Engineering in the Department of Biomedical Engineering at
Washington University in St. Louis to understand the molecular basis of
sequence-encoded hysteretic behavior. Tyler S. Harmon, then a Physics PhD
student in the Pappu lab, developed a computational model to show that the
hysteresis arises from the differential interactions of ordered and disordered
regions with solvent versus alone.

“Being able to simulate the molecular basis for tunable hysteresis puts us on
the path to design bespoke materials with desired structures and shape memory
profiles,” Pappu said. “This appears to be a hitherto unrecognized feature of
the synergy between ordered domains and IDPs.”

Moving ahead, the team hopes to study the material in animal models to examine
potential uses in tissue engineering and wound healing and to develop a better
understanding of why the material promotes vascularization. If these studies
are effective, Roberts is optimistic that the new material could become the
basis for a biotech company. They also want to develop a deeper understanding
of the interactions between the ordered and disordered portions in these
versatile materials.

“We’ve been so fascinated with the phase behavior derived from the disordered
domains that we neglected the properties of the ordered domains, which turned
out to be quite important,” Chilkoti said. “By combining ordered segments with
disordered segments there’s a whole new world of materials we can create with
beautiful internal structure without losing the phase behavior of the
disordered segment, and that’s exciting.”

This work was funded by the National institutes of Health through grants
GM061232 to A.C. and R01Ns056114 to R.V.P., by the National Science Foundation
through grants from the Research Triangle MRSEC (DMR-11-21107), NSF NMFREF
(DMR-1729671) to A.C., MCB-1614766 to R.V.P., and through the Graduate
Research Fellowship Program under Grant No. 1106401 to S.R.

CITATION: "Injectable Tissue Integrating Networks From Recombinant
Polypeptides With Tunable Order," S. Roberts, T.S. Harmon, J. Schaal, V. Miao,
Li Kan, A. Hunt, Y. Wen, T. G. Oas, J. H. Collier, R. V. Pappu and A.
Chilkoti, Nature Materials, (2018). https://doi.org/
**10.1038/s41563-018-0182-6**.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

