

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Bob Plonsey: A Remembrance

March 18, 2015 | Craig Henriquez, PhD

Duke's Robert Plonsey will be remembered as leader in the establishment of the
field of biomedical engineering

Robert "Bob" Plonsey will be remembered for his numerous and important
contributions to the field of biophysics, particularly the understanding of
the origin of biopotentials recorded from heart, muscle, and nerve tissue. He
will also be remembered for his leadership in the establishment of the field
of biomedical engineering.

The Pfizer, Inc.-Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. University Professor Emeritus of
Biomedical Engineering died on March 14, 2015, in Chapel Hill, NC. He was 90.

Bob developed his interest in engineering at Cooper Union School of
Engineering in New York, graduating with a degree in electrical engineering in
1943. After serving in the Navy during World War II, he returned to school and
obtained an MEE degree from New York University in 1948. He then moved to
California and enrolled as a PhD student in electrical engineering at the
University of California, Berkeley, where he studied under Sam Silver, an
expert in microwave antennas and the theory of diffraction and scattering of
electromagnetic waves. Bob's PhD dissertation was on diffraction by
cylindrical reflectors, a topic far removed from the work that would
ultimately define his career.

Upon graduation in 1957, Bob became an assistant professor of electrical
engineering at Case Institute of Technology (later to become Case Western
Reserve University) in Cleveland. It was at Case that Bob began to apply his
knowledge of electromagnetism to problems in biophysics, producing seminal
work on the extracellular potential of a single active fiber in a volume
conductor. He also authored one the first books on this emerging area of
study, entitled _Bioelectric Phenomena_.

His deep interest in biomedical engineering led him to complete the first year
and a half of the medical school curriculum at Case Western Reserve University
School of Medicine while a faculty member. Bob was one of the founding members
of the Bioengineering Group, Systems Research Center, which eventually led to
the formation of one of the first departments of biomedical engineering in
1969. He served as its chairman from 1976-1980.

> He was a founder of a group which led to one of the first departments of
> biomedical engineering, served as president of biomedical engineering's most
> important societies, and proposed the "sawtooth" mechanism of
> defibrillation.

During that period, he served as president of biomedical engineering's most
important societies, the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society,
from 1973 to 1974, and the Biomedical Engineering Society (BMES), from 1981 to
1982.

In 1983, Bob moved to Duke University to join the faculty of Biomedical
Engineering. At Duke, he collaborated closely with Roger Barr. They were among
the first to apply the bidomain model to study the propagation of electrical
impulses in the heart and proposed the "sawtooth" mechanism of defibrillation.
He and Barr also authored the first textbook on bioelectricity,
_Bioelectricity: A Quantitative Approach_ , which has served to educate
numerous undergraduate and graduate students in the discipline of
electrobiology. He also coauthored another textbook, _Bioelectromagnetism:
Principles and Applications of Bioelectric and Biomagnetic Fields_ , with
Jaakko Malmivuo. Bob retired from Duke in 1996 as the Pfizer Inc./Edmund T.
Pratt Jr. University Professor Emeritus of Biomedical Engineering.

Bob received numerous awards and recognition over his long career.

He was elected to the National Academy of Engineering in 1986 for "the
application of electromagnetic field theory to biology, and for distinguished
leadership in the emerging profession of biomedical engineering." He was also
named a fellow of AAAS. Among the awards he received are the William Morlock
Award in 1979, the ALZA distinguished lecturer in 1988, Ragnar Granit Prize in
2004, International Union for Physiological & Engineering Science in Medicine
Distinguished Service Award in Biomedical Engineering Science in 2004, and the
Theo Pilkington Outstanding Educator Award from the Biomedical Engineering
Division of the American Society for Engineering Education in 2005.

The IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society presented him its
Centennial Medal in 1984, and its Millennium Medal in 2000.

In 2013, he received the first IEEE Biomedical Engineering Award, for
"developing quantitative methods to characterize the electromagnetic fields in
excitable tissue, leading to a better understanding of the electrophysiology
of nerve, muscle, and brain."

After retirement, Bob and Vivian, his wife of 62 years, remained very active,
spending time with their son Daniel, his wife Mantra, and their two grandsons,
Cleveland and Mischa, as well as traveling to see their many friends and
colleagues throughout the world. Bob continued to publish and give lectures,
promoting biomedical engineering around the globe.

Bob was the epitome of a gentleman and a scholar, and he will be missed by all
that were fortunate to know him.

_Craig Henriquez, PhD, is the James L. and Elizabeth M. Vincent Professor of
Biomedical Engineering at Duke University._

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

