

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Borsuk Appointed to U.S. EPA Science Advisory Board

August 5, 2021

Mark Borsuk will use his wealth of experience and knowledge on assessing
environmental risk to help guide the agency's programs and plans

Mark Borsuk, professor of civil and environmental engineering at Duke
University and co-director of the on Duke Center Risk, has been appointed to
the Science Advisory Board of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).

Borsuk joins 46 well-qualified experts with a cross-section of scientific
disciplines and experience needed to provide advice to EPA leadership to help
advance the agency’s mission. The group was chosen from 352 candidates
cultivated through an open public call for nominations. Their role is to
review the quality and relevance of the scientific and technical information
being used by the EPA, review EPA research programs and plans, provide science
advice as requested by the EPA Administrator, and advise the agency on broad
scientific matters.

“This highly qualified, diverse group of experts will ensure that EPA is
receiving sound science-based advice to inform our work to protect people and
the environment from pollution,” said EPA Administrator Michael S. Regan. “We
worked expeditiously and deliberately to finalize the new Science Advisory
Board, and now we can move forward knowing EPA’s work is guided by the most
credible, independent expertise.”

Borsuk was chosen for his influential work on environmental risk assessment,
which combines statistical analysis, mathematical modeling and decision
theory. He has led research projects used to inform Federal and State policy,
including assessment of the total environmental costs and benefits of
hydropower, evaluating and communicating the risks of arsenic in groundwater,
determination of the full ecosystem service value of small streams and coastal
wetlands, and accounting for the value of climate risk reduction in
determining the appropriate social cost of carbon used in environmental
regulations.

## Related News

July 07, 2016

### Mark Borsuk: Valuing the Invaluable, Predicting the Unpredictable

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

