

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# On the Transformative Potential of Energy Data Analytics

June 26, 2018

Duke expert Kyle Bradbury touts transformative potential of energy data
analytics in new book on digital decarbonization

_From the Duke University Energy Initiative_

This week the Council on Foreign Relations released _Digital Decarbonization_,
an anthology of 13 experts’ perspectives on how the unfolding of the digital
revolution could help to drive a transition toward clean energy. The volume,
edited by Varun Sivaram, includes an article by Duke University researcher Dr.
Kyle Bradbury (ECE MS’08, PhD’13), who outlines the transformative potential
of the emerging field of energy data analytics.

Bradbury was among more than 40 energy experts convened by the Council on
Foreign Relations at a February 2018 workshop supported by the Alfred P. Sloan
Foundation.

Bradbury, who is managing director of Duke University’s Energy Data Analytics
Lab and a lecturing fellow at the Pratt School of Engineering, argues in his
article (pp. 73-81) that “data science could enable the decentralization of
the centralized energy systems that have existed since the beginning of the
twentieth century.”

The article launches with an account of the confluence of trends that have led
to the emergence of this new field of inquiry: new energy data sources as well
as parallel advances in data science techniques and the computational power
necessary to perform them.

Bradbury explains how data science is already shaping (and could further
transform) the electric power sector, offering examples of how machine
learning techniques have the potential to enhance system operation,
forecasting, and planning.

The article points to additional applications beyond the electricity sector,
offering examples of how data science is already changing how energy is
produced, delivered, and consumed in, say, the transportation and oil and gas
sectors.

And Bradbury argues that data science could also be leveraged to tackle a
particularly formidable problem: the overall complexity and scale of energy
systems, which often get in the way of effective planning. The emerging field
of energy data analytics “could fundamentally change how societies generate,
manage, and consume energy, by increasing system efficiency and optimizing
planning to reduce system costs and environmental damage,” Bradbury writes.

Finally, Bradbury reflects on challenges facing those in the field,
particularly the availability and the ease of access to data. “Establishing
policies that enable streamlined data sharing for approved R&D purposes is a
prerequisite for more democratized access to data,” he observes.

“This article is by no means comprehensive,” cautions Bradbury. “But it does
spotlight some intriguing possibilities for productive collisions between data
scientists in search of problems and energy system stakeholders in search of
solutions.”

Experts affiliated with Duke’s Energy Data Analytics Lab—including engineers,
data scientists, and social scientists—are positioning Duke University as an
international leader in the emerging area of energy data analytics.

Bradbury’s invitation to present at the Council on Foreign Relations workshop
was predicated on the lab’s achievements. Among other projects, the lab has
pioneered the application of visual object identification and machine learning
techniques to satellite imagery for **energy resource detection and mapping**.
One of the lab's long-term objectives is to create a map of global energy
infrastructure that can be automatically updated.

Founded in 2014, Duke's Energy Data Analytics Lab is also creating a pipeline
of talented innovators. Projects connected with Duke’s unique Data+ and Bass
Connections programs accomplish lab research objectives while deepening
undergraduate and graduate students’ research, project management, and
communications skills. Thanks to grants from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation,
the lab is launching programs for doctoral student fellows and postdoctoral
fellows this fall.

The Energy Data Analytics Lab is a collaborative effort of the Duke University
Energy Initiative (which houses it), the Information Initiative at Duke (iiD),
and the Social Science Research Institute (SSRI).

Bradbury holds Ph.D. and M.S. degrees in electrical engineering from the Pratt
School of Engineering at Duke University and a B.S. in Electrical Engineering
from Tufts University. He has worked for ISO New England, MIT Lincoln
Laboratories, and Dominion.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

