

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Brain Surgery May Get a Bit Easier, with Augmented Reality

October 5, 2016 | by Kara Manke

HoloLens goggles can help surgeons visualize brain regions they can't see

_Originally posted by Duke Today_

Doctors do what it takes to save the lives of their patients -- even if it
means drilling holes into their skulls and sticking giant needles into their
brains.

Luckily for those of us with heads, surgeons and engineers at Duke are working
to make emergency neurosurgical procedures like this a whole lot safer, with
the help the HoloLens, a new pair of augmented reality (AR) goggles from
Microsoft.

The HoloLens adds to, or “augments,” our existing reality by projecting
virtual, 3D images onto real-world objects. The effect is just like spotting
one of those colorful, virtual monsters from Pokemon Go -- except instead of
seeing the virtual images in the screen of your phone, you see them through
the lenses of the goggles.

The idea for HoloLens-aided brain surgery started with Duke neurosurgery
residents Andrew Cutler and Shervin Rahimpour, who were searching for a way to
help guide doctors during “blind” surgeries like extraventricular drain (EVD)
placement.

EVD placement is a cringe-worthy, but often life-saving, procedure, designed
to relieve pressure when excess fluid gathers in the brain. To perform EVD, a
surgeon must quickly drill a hole through a patient’s skull and then stick a
catheter – basically a thick, foot-long needle – into the precise spot where
fluid has pooled. Doctors rarely have access to real-time brain imaging in
these situations, instead relying on static CT scans and physical “landmarks”
to place the needle.

These landmarks are usually pretty accurate, Cutler said. But not always.

“There are many times when the fluid space we are trying to target is too
small or is shifted from a standard position, and these landmarks do not
provide an accurate target for us.” Cutler said. “We wanted a fast and simple
way to overlay a rebuilt CT scan onto a patient’s head.”

Under the mentorship of their advisor Patrick Codd, who directs the Brain Tool
Laboratory and is an assistant professor of mechanical engineering and
materials science at Duke, the pair teamed up with DiVE Director Regis Kopper,
assistant research professor of mechanical engineering and materials science,
and graduate student Yameng Liu to create a prototype HoloLens simulation for
EVD placement.

Cutler and Rahimpour are not the first to envision using augmented reality
goggles to aid in surgery, Kopper said at a Learn IT @ Lunch event last month.
However, until now, these technologies have been plagued with issues like
jitter, where the image shakes around, and latency, where movements of the
images are delayed.

“If you are operating on someone’s ankle and the model shakes around, it is
not going to help you so much,” Kopper said. “That is where HoloLens has made
great improvements. It allows us to do work that we haven’t done before.”

In her simulation, Liu can place a three-dimensional image of a brain onto a
head, and watch a virtual projection of the catheter as it pierces the brain.

For now, the only patient to receive the HoloLens-aided EVD surgery is a life-
size grey plastic model of a head. But if the procedure is successful in
clinical settings, Cutler and Rahimpour think the holograms could be a boon in
a variety of other neurological surgeries.

“Since we can manipulate a hologram without actually touching anything, we
have access to everything we need without breaking a sterile field,” Cutler
said. “In the end, this is actually an improvement over the current OR system
because the image is directly overlaid on the patient, without having to look
to computer screens for aid.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

