

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Bridging the Computation-Communication Gap in Future Connectivity Systems

January 18, 2023

Duke ECE faculty member Tingjun Chen adds wireless networks and systems
expertise to new multi-university research center

With the number of increasingly smart, connected devices at hand,
manufacturers and service providers are facing a big problem: there’s simply
too much data to be efficiently processed using current infrastructure
networks and information and communication technologies (ICT). What’s more,
the nonstop flow of information, from devices to the cloud and back again,
consumes massive amounts of energy.

The Semiconductor Research Corporation (SRC), the Defense Advanced Research
Projects Agency (DARPA), and commercial partners in the semiconductor and
defense sectors are co-sponsoring an initiative to develop next-generation
computer architectures, called the Joint University Microelectronics Program
2.0 (JUMP 2.0).The initiative recently funded a $35 million multi-university
research center that will create vast performance gains and reductions in
energy consumption across massive wireless and data center systems.The new
Center for Ubiquitous Connectivity (CUbiC) is led by Keren Bergman, Professor
of Electrical Engineering at Columbia University.

Duke Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering Tingjun Chen
will lend his expertise in hardware, software, and algorithm co-design and
wireless networking to CUbiC, as it aims to “flatten the computation-
communication gap, delivering seamless edge-to-Cloud connectivity with
transformational reductions in the global system energy consumption.”

“We’re really talking about developing more robust connectivity,” explained
Chen. “When users move around at high speeds or in cities where buildings
might block the signals of their devices, their wireless connection should
still maintain fidelity and quality. The user should not notice that any
switching is taking place.” That scenario may become reality through the
research that CUbiCis proposing, said Chen.

Energy savings will be achieved across all the layers of the stack: more
efficient devices, antennas, and transceivers, smarter algorithms for
efficient resource allocation, and better system integration and optimization.

“The Center for Ubiquitous Connectivity will bring photonics onto chips, work
across systems, and create new architectures, circuits, and devices that
vastly expand wireless capacity,” said Bergman. “This is a new communication
paradigm. Future systems will be much more energy-efficient, adaptable, secure
and robust, while delivering orders of magnitude more bandwidth than we
currently have.”In addition to Columbia University, CUbiC partners include the
University of California, Berkeley, other participants include the University
of California, Santa Barbara; University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign;
Massachusetts Institute of Technology; University of Michigan; Cornell
University; Duke University; Princeton University; Stanford University; Oregon
State University; University of California, San Diego; and University of
Southern California.

In addition to his participation in CUbiC, Chen is also part of the Duke-led,
NSF-funded AI Institute for EdgeComputing Leveraging Next Generation Networks
(Athena), which focuses on edge computing—a distributed computing framework
that brings applications closer to users’ devices and nearby servers.

More News from Duke ECE

## Related News

August 21, 2020

### Tingjun Chen: Connecting Tomorrow’s Wireless World

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

