

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Brinson Named 2022 A.C. Eringen Medalist

January 13, 2022 | Elizabeth Witherspoon

The Society of Engineering Science honored Cate Brinson's seminal
contributions in modeling and characterization of polymer nanocomposites,
shape memory alloys

Duke University mechanics and materials engineer Cate Brinson is the 2022
recipient of the A.C. Eringen Medal given by the Society of Engineering
Science (SES) “for her seminal contributions in the modeling and
characterization of polymer nanocomposites and shape alloy materials.”

Brinson, who is the Sharon C. and Harold L. Yoh, III Distinguished Professor
and Donald M. Alstadt Chair of the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science, will receive an award of $2,000. She will
also deliver the Eringen Medal Lecture at the SES 2022 Annual Meeting at Texas
A&M University, tentatively scheduled for October 16-19.

“Cate’s selection is a fitting recognition of her impactful contributions to
the modeling and characterization of polymers, polymer nanocomposites and
shape memory alloys and her assiduous leadership and service to the mechanics
and materials community,” said Nancy Sottos, the Maybelle Leland Swanlund
Endowed Chair of the Department of Materials Science and Engineering at the
University of Illinois Urbana Champaign, who nominated Brinson for the award.

Brinson is an internationally recognized expert in both the mechanics and
materials science of soft matter, which are materials easily deformed by
external forces or temperature changes. Brinson’s research combines
computational models, data science and physical experiments to lay the
groundwork for developing new materials – often polymer nanocomposites – for
applications ranging from cell phones to biomedical devices.

In addition, Brinson has served in various leadership and service roles with
SES, including as a board member from 1996-2000, vice president in 1998 and
president in 1999. She started the organization’s very first website and
maintained it for about a decade and has organized multiple symposia for SES
as part of the annual conference.

“This society's focus at the intersection of materials, mechanics,
engineering, physics and mathematics has always inspired me, and I have
learned so much by participating in the excellent conferences and workshops
hosted each year,” said Brinson. “SES is always at the leading
edge–integrating across disciplines, with work spanning scales and modes, and
continuously paving the way for exciting new applications. I am thrilled to be
recognized by SES and humbled by the history of outstanding researchers and
pioneers who have preceded me."

The A.C. Eringen Medal, established in 1976, is given annually by SES to
recognize sustained outstanding achievements in engineering science. It honors
Ahmed Cemal Eringen, a pioneer in the field of continuum mechanics who co-
founded SES in 1963.

Brinson has won numerous awards from her peers, including the ASME Nadai Medal
and the Humboldt Foundation Friedrich Wilhelm Bessel Prize. She is currently
the principal investigator (PI) of the NanoMetaMine project, a $5-million
National Science Foundation (NSF)-funded national consortium focused on
building a data-driven framework for the discovery of new polymer
nanocomposites and structural metamaterials. She is also the PI of the
$3-million NSF-funded aiM-NRT "AI for Understanding and Designing Materials
(aiM)/National Research Traineeship Program (NRT)." This new graduate training
program provides PhD students with integrated training for both materials and
computer science to advance the frontiers of research and training in this new
convergent field.

Prior to joining Duke in 2017, Brinson served as associate dean for academic
and professional initiatives at Northwestern University’s McCormick School of
Engineering, where she coordinated the development and promotion of a diverse
array of research centers and consolidated leadership of eight professional
master’s programs.

## Related News

February 26, 2021

### Writing New Recipes for High-Performance Materials

November 25, 2020

### Brinson Named Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of
Science

September 21, 2020

### Filling an AI and Materials Science Training Gap

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

