

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Spectator Qubits Seek to Improve Control of Four Quantum Computing Systems

April 16, 2018

International project led by Duke University engineers receives $6 million
from Army Research Office

An international team of researchers led by Duke University has received more
than $9 million to investigate the potential advantages of using a “spectator
qubit” to improve several approaches to quantum computing systems.

The initial three-year award comes from the Army Research Office’s
Multidisciplinary University Research Initiative (MURI) and its Australian
counterpart (AUSMURI). The program supports teams whose research efforts
intersect more than one traditional science and engineering discipline in an
effort to accelerate research and hasten the transition of basic research
findings to practical applications. The AUSMURI program is designed to
encourage Australian universities to collaborate on US MURI projects.

There are many researchers worldwide working to engineer a modular, scalable
quantum computer. Whereas traditional computers process information in the
form of binary bits that can be either a 1 or a 0, quantum physics allows for
quantum bits called qubits to take on multiple configurations simultaneously.
This freedom allows quantum computers to tackle some problems much more
efficiently than traditional computers, such as cracking encryptions and
modeling chemical reactions.

Qubits are very fragile, however, and need to be checked and calibrated often.
For example, the intensity of a laser controlling some types of qubits must be
extremely precise. While detectors outside of the system can keep an eye on
things, the actual intensity at the qubit itself can still vary. Current
systems skirt this issue by switching back and forth between using qubits for
data processing and sensing, which is inefficient.

The idea behind the new MURI award is to use a “spectator qubit” instead. This
would involve placing another qubit dedicated to spotting small deviations in
the local environment close to the qubits actually carrying out the data
processing.

“We’re proposing that we sacrifice some qubits for sensing so that the
controllers can make adjustments in real-time,” said Kenneth Brown, associate
professor of electrical and computer engineering at Duke and leader of the
MURI project. “If the other qubits can then continuously compute data without
having to recalibrate or re-sense their surroundings, it could help the
overall efficiency of the system.”

Joining Brown on the project are researchers from the Louisiana State
University, the University of California – Berkeley, the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, the Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory, the
University of Oregon, Griffith University, the University of Technology
Sydney, and the University of New South Wales.

The researchers at these institutions are some of the top minds in quantum,
control and information theory and leaders in four different approaches to
quantum computing: trapped atomic ions, superconductors, nitrogen vacancy
centers and doped silicon.

“Typically in these projects everyone agrees on a single platform, but this
one is driven by the question of how best to implement spectator qubits,” said
Brown. “It’s an elegant project because each of these systems has unique
features that could naturally make use of a spectator qubit.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

