

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Chakrabarty Named Hans Fischer Senior Research Fellow at the Technical
University of Munich

March 17, 2016

Three-year fellowship includes up to $180,000 and support for a graduate
student to pursue research activities while furthering collaborative research
ties

Krishnendu Chakrabarty, the William H. Younger Professor of Engineering in
Duke University’s Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, has been
named the Hans Fischer Senior Research Fellow at the Technical University of
Munich (TUM). The three-year fellowship includes up to $180,000 and support
for a graduate student to pursue research activities while furthering
collaborative research ties with the university.

Named after TUM professor Hans Fischer (1881-1945), who was awarded the Nobel
Prize in chemistry in 1930, this competitive fellowship brings together TUM
researchers and outstanding international scientists to explore innovative,
high-risk topics in their scientific research areas, with the goal of making a
long-term impact. During his three years as Fellow, Chakrabarty will spend
time in Germany working with TUM faculty and students on the design of
cyberphysical microfluidic biochips.

Chakrabarty was one of the first pioneers in creating design automation and
optimization techniques for “lab-on-a-chip” devices, where a wide array of
biomedical and chemical tests are miniaturized and completed on a microchip
only a few centimeters wide. His recent work has helped develop cyberphysical
microfluidic biochips, in which tiny droplets are manipulated and controlled
to conduct on-chip reactions and error recovery is automated. These devices
are revolutionizing a wide range of applications, such as high-throughput
sequencing, parallel immunoassays, clinical diagnostics, DNA sequencing and
protein crystallization.

By connecting computing techniques to biochemistry laboratory protocols,
Chakrabarty’s research is making this technology widely accessible by allowing
these chips to be controlled and reconfigured by software. Such solutions can
erase the need for tedious chip redesign by hand for each target application.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

