

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Chakrabarty Named Fellow of the AAAS

November 26, 2018

Honor recognizes scientifically or socially distinguished efforts to advance
science or its applications

Krishnendu Chakrabarty, the William H. Younger Professor of Engineering and
chair of the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Duke
University, has been elected a Fellow of the American Association for the
Advancement of Science (AAAS). Chakrabarty was cited for his “distinguished
contributions to the design of microfluidic biochips and design-for-test of
system-on-chip integrated circuits, and for extraordinary technical leadership
and mentoring of graduate students.”

The first part of the citation refers to Chakrabarty’s work with system-on-a-
chip and lab-on-a-chip technologies. Chakrabarty developed the first
optimization methods to manipulate nanoliter droplets in a microchip setting
and developed automated testing and diagnostic techniques for valve-based
biochips. His microfluidics work was licensed by spinoff company Advanced
Liquid Logic, launched by Duke colleague Richard Fair and students, which was
acquired by Illumina in 2013.

The second part of the citation reflects Chakrabarty’s efforts to advance
today’s computers in the post-Moore’s law era. His work focuses on the design
of “vertically integrated” 3-D microchip processors that can test themselves
for errors—or even predict future problems using machine learning.

As for the technical leadership and mentoring of graduate students,
Chakrabarty has formerly served as director of graduate studies for Duke ECE,
and has personally mentored over 30 doctoral students. He is a recipient of
Duke University's 2008 Dean's Award for Excellence in Mentoring, and the 2010
Capers and Marion McDonald Award for Excellence in Mentoring and Advising from
the Pratt School of Engineering, Duke University.

Chakrabarty has also recently received the 2017 IEEE Circuits and Systems
Society Technical Achievement Award as well as the 2015 IEEE Computer Society
Technical Achievement Award, making him one of only two researchers worldwide
to have received both IEEE societies’ top honors. He was also named a fellow
of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) in 2013 and a fellow of the
Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE) in 2008, and received
a Humboldt Research Award in 2013. He received the Semiconductor Research
Corporation Technical Excellence Award in 2018.

Chakrabarty joins 415 others elevated to the status of Fellow of the AAAS this
year, chosen by their peers for their efforts toward advancing science
applications that are deemed scientifically or socially distinguished. New
Fellows will be presented with an official certificate and a gold and blue
(representing science and engineering, respectively) rosette pin on Saturday,
16 February, at the AAAS Fellows Forum during the 2019 AAAS Annual Meeting in
Washington, D.C.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

