

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Chan Zuckerberg Initiative Invests in Duke Team's Work to Improve Cryo-EM
Images

June 17, 2021

Project will use AI to make microscope more effective for 'visual proteomics'

from Duke Today

Duke’s expertise in Cryo-EM microscopy has attracted a nearly $700,000 grant
from the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative (CZI) that will support an effort to make
this Nobel-prize winning technology do even more.

Cryo-EM is a powerful way to visualize the shapes and configurations of
individual proteins, said Alberto Bartesaghi, an associate professor of
computer science, biochemistry, and electrical and computer engineering, who
spearheads the new effort. After taking thousands of pictures of purified
protein, the system uses software to assemble a view of the protein’s shape.

Duke scientists however have begun working with a 3-D approach called
tomography, in which the protein sample is rotated. “It’s like a CT scan,”
Bartesaghi said. And the group has already dramatically increased the speed of
making these images.

But a protein in isolation is sort of like one letter in an otherwise unseen –
and enormous -- alphabet. What does it connect to? Where do you find it? How
is it used?

With the 2-1/2-year CZI funding, Bartesaghi’s team will be developing new
software based on artificial intelligence that will be able to sort out the
shapes of individual proteins as they are found within the crowded interior of
a cell. Seeing them in place should give researchers more knowledge about a
protein’s functions and interactions.

They’ll be using an AI approach called “multi-task learning,” to find specific
proteins within a volume of cellular material. Normally Cryo-EM software de-
noises the data, then segments it, then detects the shapes. The new approach
would do all three steps at the same time allowing it to reach higher
precision.

It is a form of ‘semi-supervised,’ artificial intelligence, said Bartesaghi,
who joined Duke in 2018 from the National Institutes of Health. “You give it
some examples and then the computer learns to refine what it is seeing.”

“Ultimately, these advances will allow the visualization of molecules in their
native environment at unprecedented levels of detail, helping to realize the
promise of visual proteomics,” the group said in their project application to
CZI.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

