

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Chaos Key for New Class of Materials

September 29, 2015 | By Ken Kingery

Researchers reveal new class of stable oxides based on five or more elements

_Check out thestory by North Carolina State University for more details._

Researchers at Duke University and North Carolina State University have
discovered a brand-new class of materials.

When students learn about molecular structures, they’re shown crystals like
salt, which resembles a 3-D checkerboard. Historically, most non-metal
materials that scientists develop and study have similarly ordered and
predictable molecular structures.

But now, materials scientists have shown that you can make non-metal materials
that rely on chaos rather than organization for their stability. Dubbed
entropy-stabilized oxides, the unexplored type of materials could hold the
secret to everything from better batteries to better superconductors…or who
knows what?

The findings were published on September 29, 2015, in Nature Communications.

“This line of thinking has been used to predict new random metals for several
years, but people have never looked outside of metals,” said Stefano
Curtarolo, professor of mechanical engineering and materials science and
director of the Center for Materials Genomics at Duke. “Now, for the first
time, we prove that this can be done for oxides, such as ceramics.”

An oxide is any compound that contains at least one oxygen atom and one atom
of another element. Because oxygen atoms are negatively charged, they form
oxide compounds with nearly every other element, resulting in ordered,
predictable molecular structures.

In contrast, the new class of materials combines oxygen with at many other
elements simultaneously (five in the author article). And rather than relying
on organized bonds and configurations for stability, it’s the complete mess of
chaotic randomness that make entropy-stabilized oxides possible.

A pile of balls won’t stand on its own, but a pile of balls, shoes, bats, hats
and gloves just might.

According to Curtarolo, with so many simpler, more predictable combinations to
study, oxides with many ingredients have long been overlooked. After all,
calculating the structures and behaviors of an ordered compound is far easier
than doing so for a messy, disorganized one.

“People have actually made these types of materials several times before, but
they ignored them because of the disorder and difficulty of characterizing
them,” said Curtarolo. “This is the first time that we’ve really nailed them
down, with calculations, modeling and experiments.”

Although entropy-stabilized oxides are difficult to write down on paper,
perhaps counterintuitively, they are easy to make in the laboratory, which is
exactly what collaborators at North Carolina State University have done. It’s
the difference between trying to make good fudge—which has an ordered,
crystalline structure—and throwing together trail mix.

The key, now, is to try every different flavor.

“It’s like you’re driving down the highway and discover an entirely new exit,”
said Curtarolo. “So where do you go? These new materials could have
revolutionary properties or it could just be a scientific curiosity. The truth
is we don’t know yet.”

The research was supported by the U.S. Army Research Office under grant number
W911NF-14-0285 and the National Science Foundation under grant number EEC
1156762.

###

“Entropy-Stabilized Oxides.” Christina M. Rost, Edward Sachet, Trent Borman,
Ali Moballegh, Elizabeth C. Dickey, Dong Hou, Jacob L. Jones, Stefano
Curtarolo, Jon-Paul Maria. Nature Communications, September 29, 2015. DOI:
10.1038/NCOMMS9485

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

