

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Chilkoti Receives $13.7 Million in Funding to Prototype a Rapid, Portable
Diagnostic for Soldiers and Global Health

April 13, 2020

In two newly-funded projects, Ashutosh Chilkoti will explore how to use his
lab’s signature diagnostic platform to detect bioterrorism agents and to
diagnose breast cancer in resource limited settings

Ashutosh Chilkoti, the Alan L. Kaganov Distinguished Professor of Biomedical
Engineering at Duke University, has been awarded two grants totaling $13.7
million in funding to develop a rapid, portable diagnostic test that can
detect a variety of illnesses and pathogens.

Both grants involve using the Chilkoti lab’s signature diagnostic
platform––the D4 point-of-care test (POCT). Made on a glass slide, the test
looks for proteins created from a virus or other infection in blood, serum or
saliva samples. Two types of antibodies are printed on the slide’s
surface––capture antibodies and detection antibodies, which are tagged with a
fluorescent marker. When a sample is placed on the slide, the detection
antibodies separate from the array and bind to the target proteins. These
antibody-protein pairs then attach to the capture antibodies on the slide,
which can be examined using a handheld scanner.

According to Chilkoti, one of the distinguishing features of the platform is
the novel polymer brush coating, which prevents non-target proteins from
attaching to the slide’s surface.

“By preventing unwanted proteins from binding to the assay the polymer brush
makes it easier to detect low levels of target proteins by getting rid of the
‘background noise’ on the chip,” said Chilkoti. “The polymer brush also allows
us to store all of the reagents we need on the chip while maintaining a simple
design that keeps it portable and easy-to-use.”

In the first grant, which is supported by the Medical CBRN Defense Consortium
(MCDC) that provides $10,736,110 in funding over four years, Chilkoti will
develop a D4 POCT to detect various toxins, viruses, bacteria and other
biowarfare agents in under 30 minutes.

The team will begin by optimizing single biomarkers for four biowarfare
agents: ovalbumin, MS2, Pantoea agglomerans and Bacillus globigii spores.
After the team has found a successful antibody pair for each target, they’ll
continue to optimize the tests until they can get a successful result with a
30 minute incubation time. Once the individual tests are optimized, the team
will combine the biomarkers into a single 4-marker array.

As the team optimizes the tool they’ll also work with BioStealth, a commercial
subcontractor, to redesign the chip’s format so it can contain and isolate
fluids from both biological and environmental samples, allowing for
simultaneous testing.

“MCDC is interested in a single point-of-care test for biowarfare agents that
can be read within 30 minutes with a hand-held detector”, said Chilkoti. “In
the first phase, we will work with simulants, or mimics, of biowarfare agents.
Assuming that the results from this simulant panel meet the criteria laid out
by MCDC, we will then move into the next phase of this project and develop
tests for actual biowarfare related toxins, viruses and bacteria.”

In a second project, Chilkoti and his team will receive $2,990,794 from the
National Cancer Institute to diagnose breast cancer in low-resource settings.

According to the World Health Organization, breast cancer is the most common
cancer among women, with more than 1.6 million new cases diagnosed each year
and more than 500,000 deaths annually. Half of these cases are reported in
resource-limited settings, where the majority of deaths from breast cancer
occur.

When patients are initially diagnosed with breast cancer, a pathologist must
confirm the diagnosis by imaging cells from breast tumors. They also need to
identify specific tumor biomarkers, namely the estrogen receptor (ER), the
progesterone receptor (PR), human epidermal growth factor receptor-2 (HER2)
and the proliferation maker Ki67. Assessing the levels of these biomarkers is
essential for determining prognosis and selecting the most effective
therapies. However access to both trained pathologists and the necessary
diagnostic tools is limited in low-resource settings.

The Chilkoti lab aims to address this discrepancy by using the D4 platform to
analyze the cellular and molecular features of breast cancer samples. This new
prototype, called the EpiView-D4 point-of-care test, will allow smartphone-
based cellular imaging, making it easier for non-pathologists to identify
abnormalities in tumor samples. Once malignancy is identified, the device will
then quantify ER/PR/HER2/Ki67 levels in the samples in under 30 minutes.

Daniel Joh—currently a plastic surgery resident at Duke Hospital and postdoc
in the lab—launched this project in his prior life as a MD/PhD student working
in the lab with Chilkoti as part of his PhD.

“In many ways this is Daniel’s brainchild,” said Chilkoti. “He and Jayanta
Bhattacharyya, a former postdoc, started the project and collected much of the
preliminary data that went into the proposal. Daniel then played an
indispensable role in drafting a complex and ambitious proposal that involved
my group from BME, Guillermo Sapiro from ECE, Shelley Hwang and her colleagues
from DCI, and clinical collaborators in Tanzania. We would not be here today,
launching this exciting project, without his efforts.”

The funding will support a multidisciplinary team as they train machine
learning algorithms to automatically detect malignant characteristics of
breast tissue samples. Once device development is finalized, they’ll conduct
pre-clinical validation and clinical investigations of the device, first at
Duke University Medical Center, and then at the Kilimanjaro Christian Medical
Center in Tanzania to explore how the tool operates in resource-limited
settings.

“The impact of this technology lies in its potential to improve breast cancer
management worldwide by enabling rapid and accurate diagnosis and subtyping of
breast cancers,” said Chilkoti. “This tool could drive timely and appropriate
treatment for breast cancer patients and improve the outcomes for hundreds of
thousands of women with breast cancer, especially in resource-limited
settings.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

