

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Coastal Marshes More Resilient to Sea-Level Rise than Previously Believed

December 21, 2015 | By Tim Lucas

Accelerating rates of sea-level rise linked to climate change pose a major
threat to coastal marshes and the vital carbon capturing they perform. But a
new Duke University study finds marshes may be more resilient than previously
believed.

_Originally published by the Nicholas School for the Environment_

Accelerating rates of sea-level rise linked to climate change pose a major
threat to coastal marshes and the vital carbon capturing they perform. But a
new Duke University study finds marshes may be more resilient than previously
believed.

The research, published this month in the Proceedings of the National Academy
of Sciences, shows that the significant boost in marsh plant productivity
associated with elevated levels of atmospheric carbon dioxide will allow
marshes to trap more sediment and create more organic soil.

This, in turn, will result in increased rates of accretion that will allow
marshes to keep up with rising sea levels and may increase the thresholds for
marsh drowning by up to 60 percent.

Coastal marshes absorb and store large amounts of carbon dioxide from Earth’s
atmosphere; they help filter out pollution in coastal waters; provide habitat
for wildlife; help protect coastlines from erosion and storm surge; and can
store huge amounts of floodwater, reducing the threat of flooding in low-lying
coastal areas.

“Essentially, we found it’s a self-rising mechanism marshes use to build
themselves up,” said Marco Marani, professor of ecohydrology at Duke’s
Nicholas School of the Environment and Pratt School of Engineering. “As levels
of atmospheric carbon dioxide increase, more CO2 gets taken in by marsh
plants. This spurs higher rates of photosynthesis and biomass production, so
the plants produce more sediment-trapping growth above ground and generate
more organic soil below ground.”

The result is that the extent of marsh loss is significantly reduced, even
under high rates of sea-level rise.

The study suggests this so-called “CO2 fertilization effect” may also
contribute to a stabilizing feedback in the climate system as increased
biomass production and organic deposition in marshes sequester larger amounts
of carbon dioxide.

But there’s an important caveat.

“While elevated atmospheric CO2 levels may offset some of the threats facing
marshes from sea-level rise, another equally serious threat to marsh survival
-- sediment starvation -- will remain,” said Katherine M. Ratliff, a PhD
student at Duke’s Nicholas School, who was lead author of the study.

“Suspended sediments play a fundamental role in marsh survival,” she said. “As
more dams are built and as land use and agricultural practices in coastal
regions continue to rapidly change, we’re seeing a sharp drop in inorganic
sediment delivery to many coastal marshes worldwide. This decrease
significantly undercuts the marshes’ ability to build themselves up and keep
pace with rising seas.”

The new study finds that in sediment-poor marshes, the loss of area might
range between 39 percent and 61 percent, even when the offsetting CO2
fertilization effect is accounted for, as the rate of relative sea-level rise
increases beyond the initial threshold for marsh drowning.

To conduct their study, the researchers used a spatial model of marsh
morphodynamics into which they incorporated recently published observations
from field experiments on marsh vegetation response to varying levels of
atmospheric carbon dioxide.

“While the effect of direct carbon dioxide fertilization has so far been
neglected in marsh modeling, our research shows it is central in determining
possible marsh survival under the foreseeable range of climatic changes,”
Marani said.

PhD student Anna E. Braswell co-authored the study with Ratliff and Marani.

Funding came from the National Science Foundation’s Graduate Research
Fellowship Program (#DGF1 1106401), and from Duke’s Nicholas School of the
Environment and Pratt School of Engineering.

###

CITATION: “Spatial Response of Coastal Marshes to Increased Atmospheric CO2,”
Katherine M. Ratliff, Anna E. Braswell, Marco Marani. Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences Dec. 7, 2015. DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1516286112

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

