

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke's Community-Based Toilet System Begins Testing in India

April 3, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

Stand-alone waste facility aimed at sanitation crisis facing billions
worldwide

Researchers at Duke University have installed an experimental "reinvented
toilet" at a textile mill in Coimbatore, India, to serve as a real-world
testing site. The leaders of the new decentralized waste processing system
hope that the trial will lead to commercialized solutions produced through the
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation's Reinvent the Toilet Challenge.

The system is designed to reuse water, a huge plus in drought-prone areas. And
while it does require a modest power supply, these needs can be met through
solar panels or other off-grid solutions. The end goal is a stand-alone system
that can help meet the needs of the 2.4 billion people who lack access to safe
and effective sanitation.

"This is the first wave of our systems being installed at high-profile sites
for the Gates Foundation," said Brian Stoner, who started the program as a
Senior Fellow at RTI International before joining Duke as a research professor
and director of the Center for WaSH-AID (Water, Sanitation, Hygiene and
Infectious Disease).

"Data suggest that women are disproportionately affected by poor sanitation
options, so we're focusing our first full system test on gaining their
acceptance and supporting their needs," Stoner said. "Our aim is to be gender-
transformative, empowering women and girls with the knowledge and choices to
enhance their health, education and quality of life."

With the help of Namrata Jha, the Bangalore-based director of Duke University
India—launched in 2017 to help foster such collaborations—the researchers
installed the sanitation system in a women's dormitory at a textile mill in
Coimbatore, India. The project began with a survey of more than 2000
households and 20 focus groups to help understand the social and user
requirements of any new sanitation technology.

Key takeaways included that, while the facility needs to be safe, its look and
feel is just as important. They also found that something as simple as having
a chute to discreetly dispose of feminine hygiene products can have a major
effect on the community.

"More than a quarter of Indian women drop out of school when they reach
puberty, due in part from the lack of facilities to safely and discretely
dispose of feminine hygiene products," said project co-leader Jeff Glass, a
professor of electrical and computer engineering (ECE) at Duke. "Plus the
women of the family strongly influence what facilities the family uses, so
we're focusing on developing the technology in response to their needs."

The technology works by using a sort of corkscrew conveyor belt to separate
solid and liquid waste. The solids are then dried and burned using a novel
combustion unit designed by partners at Colorado State University to produce
energy, which is used in turn for both drying more solid waste and powering
the electrochemical disinfection of the liquid waste. While the treated liquid
is not drinkable, it can be safely discharged or reused for flushing.

The first few years of the project were spent in laboratories at both Duke and
RTI working out the technological needs of the system in highly controlled
environments. A prototype was then installed at the CEPT University in
Ahmedabad, India, where researchers could control how much the system was used
and take it offline anytime they needed. The installation in Coimbatore is a
significant step forward because it will spend the next year in full operation
in a real-life setting.

"This installation will really put the sanitation system through its paces,"
Stoner said. "Success in a laboratory setting is an important first step, but
testing it in more realistic conditions will help show where we can still make
improvements."

Besides putting the technology to the test, the installation in India is also
key to learning how to gain community acceptance. The women workers will have
their choice between regular toilet facilities and the experimental system.
Learning which ones they prefer and why will be just as important to realizing
an eventual solution, even though the sanitation technology used in the new
system may be far superior to what is already available.

One example of the importance of user feedback in the development of new
technologies came when people stopped using the original prototype system at
CEPT because the treated water being reused for flushing looked "dirty." While
it met the necessary sanitation requirements, the researchers had to find a
way to make it look like the community's regular water before people would use
the toilet.

"This is an important year for us," Glass said. "Besides proving that our
sanitation system can work and that people will use it, we're also hoping to
start partnering with potential manufacturers who want to translate the
prototypes into a commercial product."

The researchers have already partnered with a small business called Biomass
Controls based in Connecticut, which earlier this year opened a small office
in Durham, North Carolina, to help transition the technology into the field
trials.

The Gates Foundation's Reinvent the Toilet Challenge was launched in 2011 to
bring sustainable solutions to the 2.5 billion people worldwide who don't have
access to safe, affordable sanitation. The program has provided more than 15
grants to scientists worldwide to pursue promising solutions to this health
crisis.

Among those awarded additional funding after successful proof-of-concept
studies were Stoner and Glass at Duke. With one system now being tested in a
real-life scenario in India and a second soon to launch in South Africa, the
pair hope to attract commercial investors leading up to a showcase event this
fall in Beijing, China.

"Our goal is not to manufacture these systems ourselves," Stoner said.
"Instead we want the Center for WaSH-AID to be a catalyst for
commercialization by creating an environment that fosters collaboration
between researchers and product development partners to create innovative,
sustainable solutions for the global sanitation crisis."

Visit washaid.pratt.duke.edu

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

