

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Collaborative Team of Neural Engineers Receive SPARC Grant to Map Body's
"Super Highway"

October 3, 2022

NIH awards $15.75M to research team led by Case Western Reserve University and
Duke University to map the vagus nerve

_This article originally appeared on the website ofCase Western Reserve
University_

The National Institutes of Health (NIH) has awarded a $15.75 million contract
to researchers led by Case Western Reserve and Duke universities to accelerate
development of therapeutic devices that improve chronic medical conditions.

The contract is within the NIH’s Stimulating Peripheral Activity to Relieve
Conditions (SPARC) program (number 75N98022C00018), which encourages discovery
and innovation as part of a therapeutic strategy known as “bioelectronic
medicine.”

Its goal: applying electrical stimulation to the nervous system to develop new
treatment options for conditions such as hypertension, heart failure and
gastrointestinal disorders.

The NIH contract—specifically to Reconstruct Vagal Anatomy (REVA)—calls for
researchers to map the body’s vagus nerve using the latest high-resolution
imaging technology. The team’s goal will be to show precisely how vagus nerve
tracts map to organs.

This work offers tremendous potential to improve the safety and effectiveness
of existing vagus nerve therapies, said Andrew Shoffstall, an assistant
biomedical engineering professor at Case Western Reserve. He is directing the
research with co-investigator Nikki Pelot, a research director at Duke
University.

“Over the next three years, we are hoping to make a big impact in the field of
autonomic neuromodulation, which has tremendous potential to treat a number of
chronic diseases,” Shoffstall said. “If we can better understand how the vagus
nerve is organized, we can more rationally design devices and procedures to
isolate and regulate its many pathways.”

“The multiple types of imaging data will provide unrivaled accuracy to our
computational models to predict neuromodulation stimulation efficacy and side
effects, so that we can use high-performance computing approaches to develop
new treatments and improve our understanding of existing therapies,” Pelot
said.

The vagus nerves connect the brainstem to most organs in the torso, including
the heart, lungs, pancreas, stomach and intestines, to control and sense the
body’s inner workings. Electrical stimulation of the vagus nerve has been used
to treat epilepsy, rheumatoid arthritis and heart failure, among many other
conditions.

However, insufficient anatomical data are available to map the roughly 100,000
fibers of the human vagus nerve to their target organs to develop therapies
that are more effective and with fewer side effects.

The research team will conduct multimodal, multiscale imaging of 100 human
vagus nerves from cadaveric donors of the CWRU Anatomical Gift Program, using
multiple 3D-imaging technologies, such as MRI and microCT.

The team will also use a novel imaging tool developed at CWRU and UC Davis,
known as 3D-MUSE, which uses what is known as ultraviolet surface excitation
to rapidly collect microscopic images of the nerve while slicing through it at
about one-30th the width of a hair. The technique will provide an
unprecedented opportunity to directly track nerve fibers at high resolution
across the long length of the vagus nerve, which spans from the brain to the
intestines.

“By performing the most comprehensive imaging analysis of the human vagus
nerve and its branches ever completed—and establishing a neuroanatomical
repository for the vagus nerve—this work will seed and accelerate the
development of novel neuromodulation therapies for autonomic regulation,”
Shoffstall said.

The three-year, multi-disciplinary project involves researchers from the Case
School of Engineering and Case Western Reserve School of Medicine, including:
Shoffstall, David Wilson, Michael Jenkins, and Ken Gustafson in biomedical
engineering; Andy Crofton in anatomy; Ari Blitz and Chris Flask in radiology;
Jennifer Carter in materials science; and Mark Beno and Audrey Lynn at the
Cleveland Institute for Computational Biology at CWRU. Researchers at partner
institutions include: Pelot and Warren Grill at Duke University; Jeff Capadona
at the Louis Stokes Cleveland VA Medical Center (who also holds an appointment
in biomedical engineering at Case Western Reserve University); Kip Ludwig at
the University of Wisconsin; and Curtis Tatsuoka at the University of
Pittsburgh.

The project extends the work that the team began during an earlier NIH SPARC
award with Duke University and the University of Wisconsin-Madison, which was
also supported by the Advanced Platform Technology Center at the Louis Stokes
Cleveland VA Medical Center.

Shoffstall is a 2013 CWRU PhD alumnus who returned to the university as an
assistant professor in July 2019. He is also co-founder of Neuronoff Inc., a
clinical-stage start-up company commercializing minimally invasive
neuromodulation devices that interface with peripheral nerves to treat chronic
conditions.

( _Multiple job postings for this effort will soon be posted at the respective
institutions. In the meantime, interested applicants should send resumes and
cover letters toreva-jobs@case.edu._)

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

