

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Color-Changing Mouse Model Allows Researchers to Non-Invasively Study Deep
Tissues

June 6, 2022 | Michaela Kane

Changing the color of mouse tissue helps scientists isolate and remove
background noise to improve imaging

Biomedical and genetic engineers at Duke University and the Albert Einstein
College of Medicine have developed a process to change the color of a mouse’s
tissue in imaging to better visualize its internal physiology.

The approach will help researchers isolate and remove sources of strong
background noise in biomedical images, giving them unprecedented access to
observe, influence and image biological processes with a swiftly developing
imaging technique called photoacoustic imaging. The research appeared May 19
in the journal Nature Communications.

As its name suggests, photoacoustic imaging (PA) uses both light and sound to
capture detailed images of cells, organs and other tissues throughout the
body. The imaging process sends a burst of laser light deep into tissue,
causing cells to heat up and expand instantaneously. This creates an
ultrasonic wave that provides information about the structure and composition
of the targeted tissues and cells that can be translated into high-resolution
images.

But while the ultrasound component of photoacoustic imaging allows engineers
to peer deeper into tissue than traditional imaging, it also introduces a
problem: background noise.

“If we want to image something like how a tumor is growing or shrinking, we
have a hard time seeing anything significant because the background ultrasound
signals from flowing blood drowns everything out,” said Junjie Yao, assistant
professor of biomedical engineering at Duke. “It’s like trying to observe the
stars in daylight –– the light from the sun overpowers all other sources of
light.”

The new genetically engineered mouse model, developed by Yao and Vladislav
Verkhusha, professor of genetics at Einstein, gives researchers an efficient
way to isolate and remove this background noise.

To accomplish this, Verkhusha and his team introduced a specialized, light-
sensitive photoreceptor into the cells of their mouse model, called BphP1.
Normally found in bacteria, BphP1 is often used as a light-based research tool
because it can switch between a silent and active state when it is hit with a
specific wavelength of light. These light-sensitive proteins are useful for
photoacoustic imaging because they can bond especially well with biliverdin, a
molecule that appears in high quantities in tissues but rarely appears in
blood cells.

Once these proteins were genetically introduced to their mouse model, the team
illuminated the entire animal with a specific wavelength of red light. This
burst of light activated the Bph1, causing the mouse to change colors. Next,
they shined a wavelength of near-infrared light on the mouse, causing the
BphP1 to return to its silent state. Although the change in color isn’t
visible to the naked eye, it could be observed using photoacoustic imaging.

“The blood doesn’t express this color-changing ability, so when we switch the
animals back and forth between the two colors, we know that the background
noise from the blood won’t change,” said Yao. “Suddenly the noise becomes a
constant component of the image, and we can use a simple data processing
method to remove it. This process made our imaging system orders of magnitude
more sensitive.”

As a proof of concept, the team imaged the liver, stomach, spleen and
intestine to show how different organs in the model expressed the
photoreceptor. They saw that while all organs appeared more clearly than with
standard PA, the spleen and liver were especially precise, as they had
naturally higher levels of the biliverdin molecule for the BphP1 to bind to.
This improved detail enabled the team to monitor changes, like liver
regeneration, more precisely, and to track the efficacy of different protein
delivery methods.

The new technique also allowed the team to better study pregnancy in their
mice, as BphP1 could bind directly to the embryos. The team was able to use PA
to precisely identify seven embryos from the surrounding vasculature and
maternal organs.

Yao and Verkhusha are looking forward to expanding the uses of their mouse
model. One avenue of exploration involves studying the immune response to
cancer therapies. Yao hypothesizes that they could add BphP1 to cancer cells
or immune cells and observe their migration through the body and their
response to treatment.

Outside of imaging, Verkhusha and his team will continue to explore how their
model could contribute to optogenetic research, which involves using light to
control cell activity.

“To me, this project was a good marriage between biochemistry and imaging,”
said Yao. “The idea of a color-changing mouse is really exciting on its own,
but I’m optimistic we can use this mouse to do some magic.”

This work was supported by the National Institutes of Health (GM122567,
EB028143, NS111039, NS115581), the Academy of Finland (322226), and the Chan
Zuckerberg Initiative (226178). The major plasmids engineered in this study
were deposited to Addgene non-profit depository (#186186, #186187), and the
developed loxP-BphP1 mice were donated to the Jackson Laboratory (JAX
#036061).

**CITATION** : “Optogenetic Manipulation and Photoacoustic Imaging Using a
Near-Infrared Transgenic Mouse Model,” Ludmila Kasatkina, Chenshuo, Mikhail
Matlashov, Tri Vu, Mucong Li, Andrii Kaberniuk, Junjie Yao and Vladislav
Verkhusha. Nature Communications, May 19, 2022. DOI:
10.1038/s41467-022-30547-6

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

