

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# One Quarter Of Bacterial Pathogens Can Spread Antibiotic Resistance Directly
To Peers

January 29, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

Antibiotics do not affect the speed at which pathogens share resistance genes

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have demonstrated that at least 25
percent of antibiotic-resistant pathogenic bacteria found in clinical settings
are capable of spreading their resistance directly to other bacteria. At the
same time, the study shows that, despite common beliefs, the use of
antibiotics does not significantly affect the rate at which the genes
responsible for resistance are swapped between bacteria.

Researchers used a new high-throughput method of measuring the rate at which
bacteria exchange the packages of DNA that bestow resistance. The speed and
ability to automate much of the process could allow new insights into what
variables affect transfer rates. Such efforts could help doctors slow—or even
reverse—the spread of resistance in certain human pathogens.

The results appears online on January 24 in the journal Science Advances.

“Our previous research showed that antibiotics do not affect the rate at which
bacteria spread their resistance directly to their community in laboratory
strains of _E.coli_ ,” said Lingchong You, professor of biomedical engineering
at Duke. “But we wanted to see if this is also true for clinical strains of
pathogens that are actually out there in the world.”

Each antibiotic-resistant pathogen carries a genetic recipe for its
resistance. But like chocolate chip cookies, not all recipes are the same, and
not all of them are easily taught to others. One way of transferring
resistance, however, is for that genetic recipe to be neatly written into a
sharable book of sorts called a plasmid, which is then picked up and read by a
neighboring bacteria through a process called conjugation.

As resistance to antibiotics grows around the world, scientists are trying to
figure out how to stop it from spreading. But because a lot of antibiotics
come from natural sources, it would be impossible to completely eliminate
resistance in the wild, which means there will always be reservoirs of
bacteria filled with recipe books for resistance.

“So the real problem is the resistance making its way into pathogens that harm
humans,” said Jonathan Bethke, a PhD student working in You’s laboratory and
first author of the new paper. “We’re looking to gain a good understanding of
what factors affect their rate of conjugation, because if you can slow that
process down enough, the plasmids carrying the genes for resistance can fall
out of a population.”

One major challenge in accomplishing that, however, is the classical method of
measuring the rate of plasmid conjugation. Besides being labor intensive,
researchers must wait 16 hours for a new generation of bacteria to grow in
Petri dishes before they can get the results. This restriction makes this
approach difficult to use when dealing with hundreds of bacterial strains and
dozens of tweakable variables.

Rather than taking years to finish the experiment, Bethke and Allison
Lopatkin, a former graduate student in You’s laboratory who is now an
assistant professor at Barnard College, developed a method that uses automated
machinery and takes only five hours to deliver results. It involves mixing two
strains of bacteria—a donor strain with resistance to one antibiotic that can
be shared through plasmid conjugation and a recipient strain with resistance
to a different antibiotic that cannot be shared.

After letting the strains mingle and the plasmid conjugation process take
place for a set amount of time, the bacterial mixture is transferred to vials
containing nutrients and both antibiotics. This promotes the growth of the
recipient bacteria that have successfully received the donor’s plasmids for
resistance while stunting the growth of all the rest. The researchers then
wait to see how long the newly dual-resistant population takes to hit a
certain threshold, which indicates how many there were to begin with.

“This method opens up the ability to test many more drugs or environmental
factors to see how they influence the rate of plasmid conjugation,” said
Bethke. “It will also allow us to determine if there’s some sort of genetic
determinant that is playing a greater role in terms of the transfer rate.”

You and Bethke collaborated with Joshua Thaden, assistant professor of
medicine at Duke, and Vance Fowler, professor of medicine at Duke, to obtain
219 clinical isolates of pathogens – bugs found in real patients. All carried
resistance to beta-lactamase, the most common form of antibiotic in use today.
By measuring the rate of plasmid conjugation both with and without beta-
lactamase antibiotics present, they showed that, except for one outlier, these
antibiotics do not increase the rate of sharing resistance. They also
discovered that more than 25 percent of the strains studied are capable of
sharing their resistance at rates fast enough to detect.

“We were surprised to discover that it was that high,” said You. “And of
course antibiotics do promote the spread of resistance, but our study
indicates that it is primarily through selective population dynamics rather
than through an increased rate of plasmid conjugation.”

The researchers also examined how slight variations in the genetics of the
resistance plasmids themselves affect their conjugation rate. Working with
Minfeng Xiao’s laboratory at BGI Genomics in Shenzhen, China, the team
sequenced the plasmids and analyzed their DNA. They then categorized the
plasmids into “mobility groups” based on how they jump between cells and
“incompatibility groups” based on how they replicate. Much to the researchers’
surprise, they discovered that while there were only two mobility groups
present in their sample library, neither of which affected the rate of
conjugation, there were seven incompatibility groups—and they very much did
affect the rate of conjugation.

“This is a preliminary but potentially big discovery because these two
classifications are genetic, which makes them easy to identify,” said Bethke.
“If we can start to build a library of genetic markers that indicate what a
pathogen’s ability to spread its resistance directly to its neighbors is
likely to be, then we can start to make large predictions about things like
horizontal gene transfer networks and maybe start understanding how bacteria
are evolving through this process at large.”

“Such a library would also have direct implications for how doctors use
antibiotics in the field,” said You. “This knowledge would help doctors make
patient-specific decisions on whether or not to administer antibiotics.”

This research was supported by the National Institutes of Health (R01GM098642,
R01AI125604), the Army Research Office (W911NF-14-1-0490), and the David and
Lucile Packard Foundation.

CITATION: “Environmental and Genetic Determinants of Plasmid Mobility in
Pathogenic Escherichia Coli,” Jonathan H. Bethke, Adam Davidovich, Li Cheng,
Allison J. Lopatkin, Wenchen Song, Joshua T. Thaden, Vance G. Fowler Jr.,
Minfeng Xiao, Lingchong You. Science Advances, 24 Jan., 2020: Vol. 6, no. 4.
DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.aax3173

# # #

## Related News

December 05, 2018

### Distinguishing Resistance from Resilience to Prolong Antibiotic Potency

November 22, 2017

### Managing Antibiotics Not Enough to Reverse Resistance

April 11, 2016

### Antibiotics Don't Promote Swapping of Resistance Genes

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

