

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Nurturing the Nanotech Maker in Us All

September 15, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

New free online course teaches anyone how to make and examine materials on a
molecular scale

Engineers from across the Research Triangle are planting large ambitions for
very small ideas in the minds of makers worldwide.

_Nanotechnology: A Maker’s Course_ is a new free series of classes being
offered through Coursera, a platform where anyone, anywhere can learn from the
world’s top universities and education providers.

Spearheaded by faculty at Duke University, in partnership with colleagues from
the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and North Carolina State
University, the new online course opens a wealth of opportunities for people
to learn about and use machinery involved in making high-tech products and
studying materials on a molecular scale.

“We want to ignite the imagination of people across the world and make
nanotechnology accessible to everyone,” said Nan Jokerst, the J. A. Jones
Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Duke and lead instructor
for the course. “Not only do we show what our instruments and tools can do, we
provide free access for people to come and actually use them. There’s no other
online course like it.”

_Nanotechnology: A Maker’s Course_ features a series of six-to-eight-minute
videos describing different instruments and what they do, followed by videos
of graduate students or faculty demonstrating how to use them.

The tools generally focus on two areas of nanotechnology—characterization and
fabrication. Characterization deals with measuring and analyzing microscopic
features, like using a scanning electron microscope to reveal the tiny details
of an ant’s head. Fabrication focuses on actually making things, like
patterning atoms and molecules into the minute features of integrated
circuits.

“People are often intimidated by the word nanotechnology, and this course was
designed to make nanotechnology accessible to the public,” said Carrie Donley,
director of the Chapel Hill Analytical and Nanofabrication Laboratory. “We're
doing this by describing the tools used to fabricate and characterize
nanoscale materials. We hope that this course will help educate the public
about nanotechnology, convince a few students to take up careers in
nanoscience, and inspire people to become ‘Nano Makers’ and come use our
facility for themselves.”

The videos highlight sophisticated technology available at Duke Engineering’s
Shared Measurement Instrumentation Facility (SMiF)—photolithography, electron
microscopy and Micro-Computed Tomography (MicroCT) scanning, which can produce
complete 3-D internal and external views of solid objects, to name a few. They
also feature instruments from UNC-Chapel Hill’s Analytical and Nanofabrication
Laboratory and NC State’s Analytical Instrumentation Facility and
Nanofabrication Facility, among others.

The skills demonstrated are generally applicable in a wide range of
industries, such as fabrics, cosmetics, composites, automotive fuel cells and
batteries, water filtration, pharmaceuticals and computer fabrication.

“These facilities are extremely high-tech, but everyone can use them, from
high-school students to local businesses,” said Jokerst, who is the executive
director of SMIF. “The videos focus on demonstrations and plain-English
explanations and feature a widely diverse set of demonstrators so everyone can
visualize themselves as a NanoMaker. Our goal is to make all people,
regardless of their background, aware of these opportunities and what they’re
capable of.”

The Coursera series is supported by the Research Triangle Nanotechnology
Network (RTNN)—a National Science Foundation-supported collaboration among
Duke, UNC and NC State focused on providing public access to university
facilities with leading-edge fabrication and characterization tools,
instrumentation and expertise within all disciplines of nanoscale science,
engineering and technology. Jacob Jones, Professor of Materials Science and
Engineering Principal Investigator of the RTNN at NC State adds, “The RTNN has
incredible resources and this course is one of the most impactful ways we aim
to bring these resources to researchers across the world.”

For people able to visit the Research Triangle, the RTNN offers training and
use of the tools and machines featured in the videos. For free use, those
interested can submit one-page proposals and be awarded training and facility
usage time to complete their projects. This offers small businesses the chance
to create a prototype or local researchers to build a case for a larger grant
proposal. For those nowhere near North Carolina, the instruments can be
accessed with RTNN Staff support remotely via the internet.

The RTNN also has a local outreach arm, where members of the group take a
scanning electron microscope out to local schools to raise interest and
awareness. Handouts targeted for middle school and high school classrooms
provide in-class activities with hands-on activities at RTNN facilities during
a field trip. Summer camps and programs are also available for students who
can make the trip.

“We really wanted to answer the question of, ‘How can you become a
nanotechnology Maker?’” said Jokerst. “Our goal is to build our user base. As
Sir Francis Bacon famously said, ‘Knowledge is power,’ and we want more people
to have the knowledge of what’s possible through our programs.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

