

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# ‘CovIdentify’ Pits Smartphones and Wearable Tech Against the Coronavirus

April 7, 2020

New Duke research study seeks volunteers to provide data from smartphones,
smartwatches and health surveys to help detect COVID-19

Researchers at Duke University are exploring how data collected by
smartphones, FitBits, Apple Watches and other smartwatches may help determine
whether or not device users have COVID-19, the illness caused by the novel
coronavirus.

The research study -- called CovIdentify -- is recruiting participants through
a website at covidentify.covid19.duke.edu.

The project, led by assistant professor of biomedical engineering Jessilyn
Dunn and Ryan Shaw, associate professor of nursing and director of the Health
Innovation Lab, will assess whether information about smartwatch wearers’
health, such as sleep schedules, oxygen levels, activity levels, and heart
rate, can detect early symptoms of COVID-19.

In previous work, Dunn and her team had shown that biometric data collected
from wearable devices could indicate if a person was susceptible to various
health issues, like diabetes or cardiovascular disease, or if they had an
infection. Now, Dunn, Shaw and their collaborators Geoff Ginsburg, M.D., the
director of MEDx (Medicine + Engineering at Duke) and Chris Woods, M.D., the
associate director of the Duke Center for Applied Genomics and Precision
Medicine, will use a similar approach to explore how wearable devices could be
a useful tool in the fight against the growing global threat.

In addition to Dunn’s previous work with wearable technology, Woods and
Ginsburg have several ongoing investigations of wearable data for early
detection of infectious disease under funding from the Defense Advanced
Research Project Agency.

“The idea for CovIdentify came to us in early March when we realized that
there was going to be an explosion of COVID-19 cases across the United States,
and we knew this was going to be a long-term health care problem,” said Dunn.
“The team quickly put together a plan to investigate how the data from mobile
devices and smartwatches could provide signals of early COVID-19 infection,
and if we could predict the severity of infection.”

The first phase of CovIdentify officially launched the first week of April
with the covidentify.org website, where participants can input their relevant
demographics and medical information and partake in a daily survey. Delivered
via text or email, the survey asks about people they’ve come in contact with
and whether they feel sick. If participants respond with a ‘yes,’ they’re
prompted to answer more questions about their symptoms, ranking them from none
to very severe. Participants will respond to the survey once a day for the
first 30 days of the program, and once a week for the following two months.
Participants will also be asked to share data from their smartphones and
smartwatches.

“The survey was designed to be simple to complete, as we want to encourage
consistent participation,” said Dunn. “We ask about common symptoms including
nasal congestion, runny nose, cough, sore throat, headache, fever and chills,
and COVID-specific symptoms, like shortness of breath, nausea and loss of
sense of taste and smell. This variety helps us determine which symptoms could
be caused by seasonal issues, like allergies or colds, and which ones could be
caused by COVID-19.”

The Fitbit is currently the only device that can connect to the study. This
will change at the end of April, when the team plans to launch the CovIdentify
iOS app for iPhones, which can pull data from any wearable device that syncs
with the Apple Health app. Shortly afterwards, the team will launch similar
programs for Android and Google users. They will comply with each system’s
privacy standards to ensure that all relevant health data is protected and
kept anonymous. Although these devices will provide the team with more
biometric data, participants don’t need a wearable device to take part in the
study.

These resources will help the team gather continuous biometric data about the
participants -- namely activity levels, sleep, and heart rate -- which they
can then pair with the daily surveys to see determine if there is a
relationship between the biometric data and any symptoms users experience.

“Our goal is to get 12 months of historical data from these apps and six
months of data going forward,” said Shaw. “This will help us create a baseline
so we can see what a person’s health usually looks like. The data and surveys
collected over the next six months will help us create a trajectory of the
illness, so we can see how changes in the digital health data relate to the
emergence of specific symptoms.”

“We want to see the differences in people who do and don’t get sick, and we
also want to see what data would indicate a mild illness and what indicates
the progression to a severe illness.”

Once the data are collected, the team will develop, test and refine their
predictive algorithms to detect respiratory infections from the COVID-19
virus. According to Dunn, this information has the potential to become a
valuable tool in helping researchers learn how to detect COVID-19 early, which
could facilitate better outcomes for everyone.

“We anticipate a great convergence of wearable data, self-reported symptoms,
molecular testing and geospatial data to help us manage infections and
outbreaks,” Ginsburg said. “CovIdentify is at the leading edge of this
convergence.”

“One of my lab’s goals is to arm health care professionals with tools and
information to detect illness and intervene early by delivering the right
treatment to the right person at the right time,” Dunn said. “If this study is
successful, we’d be able to use non-invasive and accessible tools to help us
control the spread of a dangerous virus, and predict when someone may need
more intensive care. If we can achieve this, we may be able to help doctors
save more lives.”

This project was supported by Duke MEDx and Duke Clinical & Translational
Science Institute.

If you’re interested in participating in the program, please sign up at
covidentify.covid19.duke.edu.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

