

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# COVID-19 Engineering Response Team Assembles from Every Corner of Duke

April 30, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

Through strong networks connecting students, faculty and staff across Duke
University and Duke Health, a dedicated team has mobilized to engineer
solutions to problems created by the pandemic

At the beginning of 2020, Dr. Alejandro Pino’s attention was focused on
designing and patenting feeding tubes that can unclog themselves while also
pursuing a pulmonology and critical care fellowship in the Duke University
School of Medicine.

Just a few months later, a novel coronavirus turned the world upside down, and
feeding tubes were no longer Pino’s most pressing project.

“All of our fellows who were working on research have been pulled in to help
with the crisis,” said Pino, who now spends much more time on rotation,
working on the front lines to care for COVID-19 patients at Duke University
Hospital. “And none of us can see our family or our friends. I feel guilty
just walking my dog because I’m working with COVID-19 patients on a daily
basis and don’t want to endanger other people. It’s a lot to handle.”

But Pino hasn’t given up his inventive work entirely—instead, thanks to an
innovative campus-wide partnership, he has pivoted to the hopeful work of
designing solutions to help protect patients, himself and his fellow health
workers.

> “All of our fellows who were working on research have been pulled in to help
> with the crisis. And none of us can see our family or our friends. I feel
> guilty just walking my dog because I’m working with COVID-19 patients on a
> daily basis and don’t want to endanger other people. It’s a lot to handle.”
>
> —Dr. Alejandro Pino

Pino was working on his feeding tube innovation as a fellow in the Duke Design
Health Program, a university-wide initiative led by Duke Engineering that
brings interdisciplinary teams of students into the clinical environment to
actively identify, validate and solve previously unmet challenges. And while
his focus has changed, Pino’s collaboration with engineering colleagues has
grown even stronger over the past month, as he and other Design Health fellows
serve as a direct link between engineers trying to rapidly solve emerging
needs and the clinicians they’re trying to help.

It’s on the strong foundation already laid by cross-campus collaborations like
Duke Design Health, Duke MEDx and Duke Engineering Entrepreneurship (EngEn)
that faculty, staff and students have rapidly built Duke’s new COVID-19
Engineering Response Team.

Within four weeks of formation, the team has coalesced a fully operational
pipeline that runs the engineering gauntlet from problem discovery, to rapid
prototyping complete with field testing and documentation, to delivering final
solutions to caregivers. They’ve already completed two products—3D-printed
face shields that are being mass produced, and a 3D-printed part that helps
turn an existing orthopedic surgical gown/helmet into a powered filtered-air
positive pressure suit offering the highest level of protection caregivers can
don.

And with more than seven teams working on a wide range of challenges, they’re
only getting started.

## Spinning Threads into a Web

While the COVID-19 Engineering Response Team coalesced quickly, it began
through an assortment of calls for help. Chip Bobbert, the senior engineer and
fabrication architect at Duke’s Innovation Co-Lab, had been approached about
using the Co-Lab’s many 3D printers to create face shields. Ken Gall,
associate dean for entrepreneurship at Duke Engineering, had been approached
with the idea of turning a surgical gown into a powered air purifying
respirator (PAPR). Eric Richardson, associate professor of biomedical
engineering and director of Duke Design Health, had been contacted by a
Fortune 50 corporation about figuring out how to produce low-cost ventilators.

At another school, these and other budding projects might have continued down
separate tracks. But because so many relationships and programs tie Duke
Engineering together with the Duke School of Medicine and School of Nursing,
the opportunity to pool resources did not go unnoticed.

“I was on a phone call with Ravi and Ken the weekend after everything started
closing [for social distancing], and we realized we needed to formalize all of
these projects into a cohesive effort,” said Richardson, speaking of Ravi
Bellamkonda, the Vinik Dean of the Pratt School of Engineering. “By the end of
the week we had coordinated teams to focus on specific projects.”

> “We’re in a unique position where all we have to do is walk across the road
> and ask, ‘Is this real? What will really help? And how good does it have to
> be?’ And we got engagement from the hospital back in spades, which is what
> really gave us traction rather than having us spinning our wheels.”
>
> —Paul Fearis

This step proved crucial. Rather than blindly barreling down a tunnel toward
finished products, the COVID-19 Engineering Response Team led by Richardson,
Gall and Paul Fearis took a week to step back, reach out through their
existing networks in the health care system, and identified just what the
priority needs really were.

“While the world was running around with its head in its hands dealing with
tons of requests for PPE, ventilators and the like, we made the decision to
take a breath, slow down and quickly talk to the hospital,” said Fearis, a
senior lecturing fellow in biomedical engineering. “We’re in a unique position
where all we have to do is walk across the road and ask, ‘Is this real? What
will really help? And how good does it have to be?’ And we got engagement from
the hospital back in spades, which is what really gave us traction rather than
having us spinning our wheels.”

“The fact that our response has been so well organized is entirely enabled by
having the engineering and medical schools so proximal to each other, both
metaphorically and physically,” said Donna Crenshaw, executive director of
Duke MEDx, a joint initiative between Duke’s engineering and medical schools
to foster interdisciplinary collaboration. “There were already so many
channels of communication existing between us. Without those, it would have
taken months to organize what we’ve put together in weeks.”

Duke Team Designs Medical Shields for Health Care Workers from Duke University
on Vimeo.

## Ramping Up

After needs were assessed and working groups formed, the COVID-19 Engineering
Response Team got to work. Less than three weeks after the team formed,
completed projects were already heading out the door with new ones coming down
the pike.

The first project to be realized was adapting existing plans for a 3D-printed
face shield so that it could be mass-produced by a local company. After
testing about 100 designs, a team led by Bobbert landed on its prototype of a
3D-printed headband that forms a face shield when attached to a laser-cut
polycarbonate lens, which is a lightweight piece of plastic with high-impact
resistance.

Along the way, with support from Ryan Shaw, associate professor and the
Elizabeth C. Clipp Term Chair of Nursing, more than two dozen Duke nurses,
graduate nursing students and medical professionals tested the 3D-printed face
shields in a simulation lab and determined they met safety standards and could
be sanitized for re-use. Similar efforts for testing and validation of other
devices is also ongoing.

“What really struck a lot of people when our face shield came out was that we
had done testing on it,” said Gall. “Lots of places already had pictures of
face shields they’d produced online. It took slightly longer for us to get
ours out, but the testing was differentiating compared to what others had
done. And the testing matters. It made a big difference.”

The second project to see the light of day was a 3D-printed device that can
mount filters onto a surgical helmet to turn it into a Powered Air Purifying
Respirator or PAPR. PAPRs—which include reusable respirator hoods that
completely cover health care workers’ faces and a battery-powered blower that
pulls air through filters or cartridges to keep the suit ventilated,
atmosphere breathable and visor clear—provide one of the highest levels of
protection for health care workers. These are the preferred PPE for health
care workers who are performing more invasive procedures like intubating
patients. To date, more than 97 groups have accessed the license and 34 from
the United States, Canada, Australia, Norway and United Kingdom have
downloaded the design and instructions, which can be used without cost for a
year.

The team developed the 3D-printed part for the PAPR under the leadership and
guidance of Duke orthopedic spine surgeon Melissa Erickson, who originally
approached them with the need and possible solution.

“We have these helmets that we wear during arthroplasty surgery and we started
to wonder, ‘Can these be repurposed?’” said Erickson. “If there are national
shortages on PPE and PAPRs, maybe we can use things that we have plenty of in
the hospital and do modifications to be able to increase the amount of
protective personal equipment we have for health care workers.”

## All Hands on Deck

Taking all the help they can get, the COVID-19 Engineering Response Team is
also relying on the talents of engineering undergraduate students.

Juniors in the Duke Biomedical Engineering Fellows program, which offers
practical design experience through courses and internships, are playing an
integral part in several projects. For example, Design Fellow Spencer
Moavenzadeh used CAD stress/strain analyses to simulate the face shield frames
and propose ways to stiffen them.

“I also have a team of juniors working on a low-resource ventilator design,”
said program leader Dr. Mark Palmeri, associate professor of the practice of
biomedical engineering. “There are many designs out there for open-source,
AMBU-bag based ventilators, but many have missed the mark and not gained
traction. This group is looking to learn from those efforts and propose
something that is actually useful.”

Meanwhile, seniors Max Sondland and Dimitrios Bailas, who are completing their
mechanical engineering capstone design course, have been tapped by their
teacher to help create more safe spaces to treat patients. Besides their
normal course load, the pair have been working with a team led by surgery
resident Konstantinos Economopoulos prototyping and testing a negative-
pressure patient isolation tent that expands treatment locations while
reducing the risk to clinicians. In partnership with the School of Nursing’s
Health Innovation Lab, the team is able to prototype their device across the
street from Duke University Hospital. This provides easy access for working
clinicians to give feedback.

> “It's fun working with extremely talented people and having an urgent and
> meaningful goal. I think we're all exhausted, but we feel like we're making
> an impact."
>
> —Eric Richardson

“They have been extremely effective in developing the ventilation system,
taking it from an idea to testing in less than a week,” said Neal Simmons, the
Gendell Family Associate Professor of the Practice of Mechanical Engineering
and Materials Science. “We could not have developed this idea as quickly or
effectively without their intellect, skill and hard work.”

Yet other teams are working on 3D-printed “splitters” that make a single
ventilator accessible to more than one patient and an intubation aerosol
shield. Keeping up with all of these projects is Erika Segear, associate
director of Duke’s Office of Regulatory Affairs and Quality, who is providing
regulatory expertise and creating the documentation outlining specifications
and testing information that will be provided with each device and shared with
other teams nationwide.

And the ideas and devices keep coming.

“It's fun working with extremely talented people and having an urgent and
meaningful goal. I think we're all exhausted, but we feel like we're making an
impact,” said Richardson.

## Short and Long-Term Investments

According to Gall, one of the key pieces that put this whole puzzle together
is funding, thanks in large part to Allan Kirk, chair of the Department of
Surgery in the Duke University School of Medicine.

“Allan and I are neighbors, so we see each other often,” said Gall. “We were
talking from a safe distance and he told me about the urgent needs the
hospital was facing. When we started building products and purchasing
materials, I approached Allan and he stepped in immediately to help. Surgery’s
generous financial support enabled us to turbo-charge the projects.” The
Health System’s Perioperative enterprise also leaned in with immediate
support.

Without the worry of funding looming over their heads, the COVID Engineering
Response Team was able to, for example, purchase a high-temperature pizza oven
to heat and bend the face shields to fit their 3D-printed headbands. Everyone
in the group agrees that the support of every dean and department head in
letting them focus their time on these projects has been crucial. They also
agree that the original investments enabling this fast-moving, large-scale
effort go back years.

MEDx was forged in 2015 by forward-thinking leaders in the Schools of Medicine
and Pratt School of Engineering with support from Provost Sally Kornbluth. The
initiative fuels collaboration and team science by providing seed funding for
new joint research projects, educational opportunities, and events to spark
new collaborations between people from both schools.

> “Our strategy of recruiting highly talented design engineers who have a deep
> interest in teaching, and then allowing them to ‘self-organize’ to do great
> things built the underlying intellectual capacity at Duke that has now been
> organized as Duke EngEn and the COVID-19 Engineering Response Team. We had
> no way of anticipating COVID-19, but here we are, with their being front and
> center in Duke’s COVID response in support of our Duke Health colleagues.
> It’s a joy to see this ‘dream team’ in action, not just because they are
> smart, but because they care deeply about making the world better.”
>
> —Ravi Bellamkonda

The Duke Innovation Co-Lab, a community makerspace with technology resources,
programming and facilities to jumpstart successful ideas, was launched in 2016
with an entire wall of more than 80 3D printers. Duke has also been turning
its attention toward design, recruiting faculty and offering courses in the
freshman year through to a dedicated medical device design masters certificate
in biomedical engineering. Even more recently, Duke Engineering launched Duke
Engineering Entrepreneurship (EngEn for short), which features an experienced
team of entrepreneurs working as instructors, mentors and leaders in an array
of educational opportunities, programs and resources for faculty, students and
staff.

“The seeds for all of our efforts over the past few weeks were laid well
before this crisis, and have been nurtured and grown as new leadership has
also realized their value,” said Gall, who co-leads EngEn and is the associate
director of MEDx. “These programs are directly responsible for much of the
COVID-19 Engineering Response Team even being here at Duke right now.”

“Our strategy of recruiting highly talented design engineers who have a deep
interest in teaching, and then allowing them to ‘self-organize’ to do great
things built the underlying intellectual capacity at Duke that has now been
organized as Duke EngEn and the COVID-19 Engineering Response Team,” said
Bellamkonda. “We had no way of anticipating COVID-19, but here we are, with
their being front and center in Duke’s COVID response in support of our Duke
Health colleagues. It’s a joy to see this ‘dream team’ in action, not just
because they are smart, but because they care deeply about making the world
better.”

## Astonishing Human Beings

Still, it is perhaps through current and former Duke Design Health Fellows
that nimbleness of the COVID-19 Engineering Response Team can truly be
understood.

The most recent class of fellows—most of them medical residents, nursing PhD
students, and engineering graduate students—started back in August 2019 at the
Design Health boot camp, where they were trained to do observational research
in Duke Health clinical settings to identify unmet needs. Over the course of
that summer and the subsequent semesters, the fellows learned design and
business processes and championed teams of students from across the university
to address the needs they had identified.

Then COVID-19 hit. The call from the hospital went out, and fellows like Pino,
Economopoulos, and Muath Bishawi, a resident in cardiac surgery pursuing a PhD
in biomedical engineering and advisor to the Design Health program, switched
back into being clinicians. Fellow Jackie Vaughn, an experienced nurse in the
midst of finalizing her PhD, began knocking down barriers and opening doors
all over the hospital for Bishawi, Konstantinos, Alejandro and the rest of the
task force team.

> “We deal with many ‘students’, but it really hits home when one realizes
> that the student you were joking with or critiquing last evening literally
> put their life in harm’s way this morning; because that’s what they do. I
> think they respect us as ‘professors’—but nowhere near as much as we respect
> them as human beings.”
>
> —Paul Fearis

“Literally overnight they went from being our students to saving lives, while
at the same time looking through the lens we had given them to identify real-
time, real-world needs emerging in the hospital, bringing them back to the
task force and embarking on solving them,” said Fearis. “Honestly they are
astonishing human beings.”

Having been trained to understand the true need of a patient or clinician,
regardless of what they say, and what can be tackled by their skillset, these
“astonishing human beings” are the COVID-19 Engineering Response Team’s eyes
and ears on the intensive care unit’s floor.

“As physicians, we learn a lot about the observation of patients and physical
exams and how to draw conclusions from those,” said Pino. “What I’ve found
most helpful from the Design Health Program is having learned how to observe
from an engineering or innovator’s perspective, finding solutions for our
patients and even questioning solutions that already exist.”

With few indications about how long the pandemic might last, nobody knows when
their lives might return to some semblance of normal. But with each problem
identified, each innovation tested, and each problem solved, everyone involved
with the COVID-19 Engineering Response Team feels like they’re helping the
world get just a little bit closer.

And the sooner the better. Nobody wants their friends and family to be in
harm’s way.

“We deal with many ‘students’, but it really hits home when one realizes that
the student you were joking with or critiquing last evening literally put
their life in harm’s way this morning; because that’s what they do,” said
Fearis. “I think they respect us as ‘professors’—but nowhere near as much as
we respect them as human beings.”

## Related News

April 27, 2020

### Duke Engineers Adapt Rapid Testing Platform to See If It Can Catch
COVID-19

April 13, 2020

### 3-D Printing to Give Medical Teams the Highest Level of Protection

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

