

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Creating a Reliable Future

October 18, 2021

Now in his 47th year at Duke University, Kishor Trivedi is still on a
mission—to educate practicing engineers about the best hardware-software
reliability assessment tools available, and to create some new ones of his own

Kishor Trivedi has published four books on his favorite computing
topic—reliability—and last year, he was honored with the IEEE Reliability
Society Lifetime Achievement Award, in recognition of sustained contributions
to the methods, tools and education in the reliability assessment of hardware-
software systems.

Yet the most prized memory of his career isn’t of receiving an award or seeing
his name on the dust jacket of a textbook fresh on the press. It’s of a
handshake that happened in Hawaii in 1988.

“When I was a young professor in computer science, I was given a probability
course to teach, but there was no corresponding textbook,” said Trivedi, now
the Hudson Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at
Duke. “I started looking through all the existing literature and collecting
lots of examples from computing that would fit. I started to give these notes
to the students, then computerized them around 1977.”

Soon, he was putting together the first textbook on the subject of probability
for computer and reliability engineers.

At the time, Trivedi reminded, print quality was not very good. The way a
printer would create an “alpha” (a) indicating a variable was to print an “o”
flanked by a “<.” The textbook’s reviewer—Dr. Richard Hamming, the famed
mathematician who developed Hamming code and created the Hamming port—griped
about the low-quality print job, but nonetheless received the book’s ideas
favorably.

_Probability and Statistics with Reliability, Queuing and Computer Science
Applications_ was published in 1982. Around 1988, Trivedi traveled to the
Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, where he spotted a tall
man dressed in white: Hamming. Trivedi introduced himself, and Hamming greeted
him with a handshake, saying, “You’re the fellow who wrote that book!”

“It was like meeting a rock star,” said Trivedi, who still smiles when he
recounts the meeting.

Over the course of his career, Trivedi has remained starry-eyed about the
subject of reliability in general. And the topic is more relevant than ever,
as software has made its way from traditional computing into nearly every
facet of modern life.

**Accurate Predictions of Performance Depend on Realistic Projections of
Reliability**

“The size of software in systems over time resembles a hockey stick,” said
Trivedi. The amount of software in systems like aerospace was small at first,
and growth curved gently upward like the blade of a hockey stick. In current
day systems, software has taken off like a rocket. Now, financial and medical
records are software-dependent, as is critical infrastructure including power,
water and fuel.

Software’s exponential growth isn’t itself a problem, said Trivedi—but the
people evaluating the software’s trustworthiness tend to overestimate how well
it will perform, and that could lead to a software-driven crisis in the near
future.

Often, he explained, evaluators use overly simple techniques that assume the
perfect independence of each of the system’s components. “In fact,” Trivedi
explained, “the system is composed of interdependent components, and
dependency generally brings down the level of actual reliability.”

> Overestimating a program’s reliability, unsurprisingly, can lead to
> overinflated confidence in a system’s ability to perform as it should.

Overestimating a program’s reliability, unsurprisingly, can lead to
overinflated confidence in a system’s ability to perform as it should, and so
for nearly 50 years Trivedi has been on mission to educate practicing
engineers about more robust reliability assessment techniques and tools, and
create some of his own.

“Practicing engineers tend to use simple reliability block diagrams and fault
trees models, which depend on unrealistic assumptions about independence,”
said Trivedi. To better capture extent of dependence among system components,
more advanced models like Markov chains are required, but Trivedi said there
are significant obstacles to deploying them. “Understanding of these models
generally is poor, and commercially available tools offer a shiny user
interface but do not have a lot going on beneath the hood,” said Trivedi.

Trivedi’s approach is multi-level, combining the efficiency and simplicity of
reliability block diagram and fault trees with the advanced capability of
Markov models. This was the topic of his 2017 book and the central theme of
his SHARPE tool, which counts Boeing, Honda, GE and numerous universities
among its 1000-plus users. It was also the focus of a four-week intensive
study program for engineers at the Air Force Ground Based Strategic Deterrent,
or GBSD, a land-based intercontinental ballistic missile system that is being
developed for readiness in 2023. Needless to say, there’s no margin for error
with this system, so Trivedi led the course to introduce the sophisticated
probabilistic modeling techniques and tools that would enable DoD hardware and
software engineers to most accurately gauge its reliability.

The first two weeks covered reliability modeling methods and applications to
real-world problems, primarily based on his 2017 book. In the second two
weeks, focus shifted to making software more reliable. For this, Trivedi
invited 21 other experts, each with their own specific focus, to contribute to
the comprehensive crash course.

The participants were largely unfamiliar with the material and methods Trivedi
and his colleagues covered, so Trivedi said he feels encouraged knowing the
whole gamut was professionally recorded for posterity, and that future GBSD
engineers will also be able to tap into that wealth of knowledge.

“Software reliability is going to continue to be a problem,” warned Trivedi,
“and we need to continue to put our heads together to look at all the
different methods available to us and combine them in new ways to get the best
and most reliable software possible.”

More News from ECE

## Related News

December 14, 2020

### Trivedi Wins IEEE Reliability Society Lifetime Achievement Award

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

