

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Directly Reprogramming a Cell's Identity with Gene Editing

August 11, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

Duke engineers use CRISPR to generate neuronal cells from connective tissue

Researchers have used CRISPR—a revolutionary new genetic engineering
technique—to convert cells isolated from mouse connective tissue directly into
neuronal cells.

In 2006, Shinya Yamanaka, a professor at the Institute for Frontier Medical
Sciences at Kyoto University at the time, discovered how to revert adult
connective tissue cells, called fibroblasts, back into immature stem cells
that could differentiate into any cell type. These so-called induced
pluripotent stem cells won Yamanaka the Nobel Prize in medicine just six years
later for their promise in research and medicine.

Since then, researchers have discovered other ways to convert cells between
different types. This is mostly done by introducing many extra copies of
“master switch” genes that produce proteins that turn on entire genetic
networks responsible for producing a particular cell type.

Now, researchers at Duke University have developed a strategy that avoids the
need for the extra gene copies. Instead, a modification of the CRISPR genetic
engineering technique is used to directly turn on the natural copies already
present in the genome.

These early results indicate that the newly converted neuronal cells show a
more complete and persistent conversion than the method where new genes are
permanently added to the genome. These cells could be used for modeling
neurological disorders, discovering new therapeutics, developing personalized
medicines and, perhaps in the future, implementing cell therapy.

The study was published on August 11, 2016, in the journal Cell Stem Cell.

“This technique has many applications for science and medicine. For example,
we might have a general idea of how most people’s neurons will respond to a
drug, but we don’t know how your particular neurons with your particular
genetics will respond,” said Charles Gersbach, the Rooney Family Associate
Professor of Biomedical Engineering and director for the Center for
Biomolecular and Tissue Engineering at Duke. “Taking biopsies of your brain to
test your neurons is not an option. But if we could take a skin cell from your
arm, turn it into a neuron, and then treat it with various drug combinations,
we could determine an optimal personalized therapy.”

“The challenge is efficiently generating neurons that are stable and have a
genetic programming that looks like your real neurons,” says Joshua Black, the
graduate student in Gersbach’s lab who led the work. “That has been a major
obstacle in this area.”

In the 1950s, Professor Conrad Waddington, a British developmental biologist
who laid the foundations for developmental biology, suggested that immature
stem cells differentiating into specific types of adult cells can be thought
of as rolling down the side of a ridged mountain into one of many valleys.
With each path a cell takes down a particular slope, its options for its final
destination become more limited.

If you want to change that destination, one option is to push the cell
vertically back up the mountain—that’s the idea behind reprogramming cells to
be induced pluripotent stem cells. Another option is to push it horizontally
up and over a hill and directly into another valley.

“If you have the ability to specifically turn on all the neuron genes, maybe
you don’t have to go back up the hill,” said Gersbach.

Previous methods have accomplished this by introducing viruses that inject
extra copies of genes to produce a large number of proteins called master
transcription factors. Unique to each cell type, these proteins bind to
thousands of places in the genome, turning on that cell type’s particular gene
network. This method, however, has some drawbacks.

“Rather than using a virus to permanently introduce new copies of existing
genes, it would be desirable to provide a temporary signal that changes the
cell type in a stable way,” said Black. “However, doing so in an efficient
manner might require making very specific changes to the genetic program of
the cell.”

In the new study, Black, Gersbach, and colleagues used CRISPR to precisely
activate the three genes that naturally produce the master transcription
factors that control the neuronal gene network, rather than having a virus
introduce extra copies of those genes.

CRISPR is a modified version of a bacterial defense system that targets and
slices apart the DNA of familiar invading viruses. In this case, however, the
system has been tweaked so that no slicing is involved. Instead, the machinery
that identifies specific stretches of DNA has been left intact, and it has
been hitched to a gene activator.

The CRISPR system was administered to mouse fibroblasts in the laboratory. The
tests showed that, once activated by CRISPR, the three neuronal master
transcription factor genes robustly activated neuronal genes. This caused the
fibroblasts to conduct electrical signals—a hallmark of neuronal cells. And
even after the CRISPR activators went away, the cells retained their neuronal
properties.

“When blasting cells with master transcription factors made by viruses, it’s
possible to make cells that behave like neurons,” said Gersbach. “But if they
truly have become autonomously functioning neurons, then they shouldn’t
require the continuous presence of that external stimulus.”

The experiments showed that the new CRISPR technique produced neuronal cells
with an epigenetic program at the target genes matching the neuronal markings
naturally found in mouse brain tissue.

“The method that introduces extra genetic copies with the virus produces a lot
of the transcription factors, but very little is being made from the native
copies of these genes,” explained Black. “In contrast, the CRISPR approach
isn’t making as many transcription factors overall, but they’re all being
produced from the normal chromosomal position, which is a powerful difference
since they are stably activated. We’re flipping the epigenetic switch to
convert cell types rather than driving them to do so synthetically.”

The next steps, according to Black, are to extend the method to human cells,
raise the efficiency of the technique and try to clear other epigenetic
hurdles so that it could be applied to model particular diseases.

“In the future, you can imagine making neurons and implanting them in the
brain to treat Parkinson’s disease or other neurodegenerative conditions,”
said Gersbach. “But even if we don’t get that far, you can do a lot with these
in the lab to help develop better therapies.”

This research was supported by the National Institutes of Health (R01DA036865,
U01HG007900, DP2OD008586, P30AR066527, T32GM008555) and the National Science
Foundation (CBET-1151035).

“Targeted Epigenetic Remodeling of Endogenous Loci by CRISPR/Cas9-Based
Transcriptional Activators Directly Converts Fibroblasts to Neuronal Cells.”
Joshua B Black, Andrew F Adler, Hong-Gang Wang, Anthony M D’Ippolito, Hunter A
Hutchinson, Timothy E Reddy, Geoffrey S Pitt, Kam W Leong, and Charles A
Gersbach. Cell Stem Cell, 2016. DOI: 10.1016/j.stem.2016.07.001

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

