

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# CRISPR/Cas9 Silences Gene Associated with High Cholesterol Levels Through
Epigenetic Regulation

April 26, 2018

Process marks the first time researchers have delivered CRISPR/Cas9 repressors
for targeted therapeutic gene silencing in adult animal models

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have used a CRISPR/Cas9 genetic
engineering technique to turn off a gene that regulates cholesterol levels in
adult mice, leading to reduced blood cholesterol levels and gene repression
lasting for six months after a single treatment. This marks the first time
researchers have delivered CRISPR/Cas9 repressors for targeted therapeutic
gene silencing in adult animal models.

The study appeared online in _Nature Communications_ on April 26.

The CRISPR/Cas9 system is based on an antiviral defense mechanism in bacteria
in which the Cas9 enzyme recognizes the viral DNA sequences of previous
infections and cuts up invading DNA during re-infection. Researchers have
engineered the CRISPR/Cas9 system to not only locate and cut specific
sequences of DNA, but to also turn on or off the expression of targeted genes
without making permanent changes to the DNA sequence. While this CRISPR/Cas9
repressor technique has emerged as a robust tool for disrupting gene
regulation in cell culture models, it had not yet been adapted for delivery to
adult animals for applications such as gene therapy.

In their most recent study, Charles Gersbach, the Rooney Family Associate
Professor of Biomedical Engineering at Duke, and members of his laboratory
develop an approach to efficiently package and deliver the CRISPR/Cas9
repressor system to mice. They tested their delivery system by silencing
Pcsk9, a gene that regulates cholesterol levels. While several drugs have been
developed to treat high cholesterol and cardiovascular disease by blocking the
activity of Pcsk9, this new approach would prevent Pcsk9 from being made.

“We previously used these same types of tools to turn genes on and off in
cultured cells, and we wanted to see if we could also deliver them to animal
models with an approach that is relevant for gene therapy,” Gersbach said. “We
wanted to change the genes in a way that would have a therapeutic outcome, and
Pcsk9 is a useful proof-of-concept given its role regulating cholesterol
levels, which in turn affect health issues like heart disease.”

To test the targeted Pcsk9 repressor in an adult animal, the team opted to use
adeno-associated viral (AAV) vectors—small viruses that have been engineered
to target a variety of tissue types in human gene therapy clinical trials. Due
to the vector’s small cargo limit, the team couldn’t use the common Cas9
enzyme from _Streptococcus pyogenes_. Instead, they opted to use a smaller
Cas9 from _Staphylococcus aureus_. They also deactivated the DNA cutting
function of Cas9, creating a “dead” version of the enzyme, dCas9, that binds
to but does not cut the targeted DNA sequence.

The dCas9 can be combined with a KRAB protein that silences gene expression,
creating a CRISPR/Cas9 repressor that blocks transcription, reduces chromatin
accessibility, and silences gene expression without altering the underlying
DNA sequence. Using an AAV vector to deliver CRISPR/Cas9-based repressors to
the mouse liver, the researchers reduced Pcsk9 and cholesterol levels in
treated mice.

While the experiment was successful, the researchers also observed release of
liver enzymes into the blood only in treatments that included Cas9. While
these liver enzyme levels remained below a critical threshold and normalized
over time, their elevated levels indicated that the therapy potentially caused
immune responses in the liver where the virus and Cas9 enzyme accumulate,
raising questions about the efficacy of multiple injections.

“One of the interesting things we found looked like an immune response against
the Cas9 protein,” said Pratiksha Thakore, the PhD student who led the work in
Gersbach’s lab. “Following injection, we saw that levels of our target gene,
Pcsk9, were reduced, but we also observed increases in expression of many
immune cell genes , which indicates that immune cells were infiltrating the
liver after we delivered Cas9 to the mice. Gaining a better understanding of
this immune response and how to modulate it will be important for using Cas9
technologies for therapies.”

As researchers develop new ways to use the CRISPR/Cas9 for therapy and
research, more information is emerging on how the immune system of living
organisms responds to delivery of CRISPR/Cas9 system. Because the Cas9 enzyme
is derived from bacteria, the immune system may recognize it as a foreign
protein from an invading organism and mount a response. There is also concern
that potential patients for a CRISPR/Cas9-based therapy may already be primed
to harbor immune responses against these systems, as the Cas9 enzymes most
commonly used in research come from common bacteria to which humans are
routinely exposed.

“The field is just starting to look at this, and it’s clear that immune
response is an important issue,” said Gersbach. “Although we did see an immune
response in the mice when we administered Cas9, the levels of liver enzymes in
the serum seemed to mitigate over time without any intervention, and the
effect of Pcsk9 repression was sustained regardless.”

As they continue the research, Gersbach and his collaborators hope to gather
more information to better understand the immune response against Cas9 and
stability of epigenetic modulation.

“There are still lots of things for us to explore with this approach,” said
Thakore. “CRISPR/Cas9 tools have worked so well in cell culture models that
it’s exciting to apply them more in vivo, especially when we’re examining
important therapeutic targets and using delivery vehicles that would be
relevant to treating human diseases.”

The work was supported by an Allen Distinguished Investigator Award from the
Paul G. Allen Frontiers Group, the Thorek Memorial Foundation, the National
Institutes of Health (NIH) (R01DA036865, R21DA041878, UG3TR002142,
UH3TR000505, P30AR066527, R41GM119914), the NIH Director’s New Innovator Award
(DP2OD008586) the National Science Foundation Faculty Early Career Development
(CAREER) Award (CBET-1151035), and the American Heart Association Scientist
Development Grant (10SDG3060033).

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

