

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# CRISPR Tagging Improves Accuracy Of Model Cells Grown From Stem Cells

December 1, 2020 | By Alissa Kocer

Novel method identifies which master controllers of gene activity are
essential to making adult cells of any type

A team of biomedical engineers at Duke University has created a new way to
turn stem cells into a desired cell type by mastering the language of gene
regulatory networks.

Programming stem cells into other cell types is not a new idea. Several
methods already exist, but the results have left something to be desired.
Often, programmed stem cells do not mature correctly when cultured in the lab,
so researchers seeking adult neuron cells for an experiment might end up with
embryonic neurons, which won’t be able to model late-onset psychiatric and
neurodegenerative conditions.

“The cells might seem right at first glance,” said Josh Black, the Duke Ph.D.
student who led the work in Charles Gersbach’s lab, “but they are often
missing some of the key properties you want in those cells.”

Using CRISP gene editing, the lab led by Gersbach, The Rooney Family Associate
Professor of Biomedical Engineering and the Director of the Center for
Advanced Genomic Technologies, created a method to identify which
transcription factors—master controllers of gene activity—were essential to
making a good neuron.

Their work, appearing Dec. 1 in _Cell Reports_ , demonstrates the potential of
the approach to make mature adult neurons, but it could be applied to program
any cell type.

CRISPR technology is most often used for editing DNA sequences, known as
“genome editing,” in which the Cas9 protein is bound to a guide RNA that
directs Cas9 to cut the DNA at a specific location, leading to changes in the
DNA sequence. “DNA editing has been widely used to alter gene sequences, but
that doesn’t help in situations where the gene is turned off,” Gersbach said.

A deactivated Cas9 (dCas9) protein, though, will attach to the DNA without
cutting it. In fact, it typically won’t do anything without another molecule
attached or recruited to it. Gersbach and his colleagues have previously
reported a variety of methods to attach different molecular domains to the
dCas9 protein can that will tell a cell to turn on a gene and remodel
chromatin structure.

When Black joined Gersbach’s lab, he was interested in using these tools to
turn on genes that could convert one cell type into another to create better
disease models.

In 2016, Black and Gersbach reported an approach to use the CRISPR-based gene
activators to turn on gene networks that would convert fibroblasts, an easily
accessible cell type that makes up connective tissue, to neuronal cells. This
study targeted gene networks that were known to be associated with neuronal
specification, but did not generate cells with all of the properties needed to
make effective disease models. However, the right gene networks to generate
those desired cells were unknown, and there are were thousands of
possibilities encoded in the human genome. So Black and Gersbach devised a
strategy to test all of the networks in a single experiment.

They started with pluripotent stem cells, since this cell type should be able
to become any other cell in the human body. To make mature neurons from stem
cells, the team engineered stem cells that fluoresced red once they became
neuronal. The brighter the fluorescence, the stronger the push towards a
neuronal fate. Then they made a pooled library of thousands of guide RNAs
targeted to all of the genes that encode transcription factors in the human
genome. Transcription factors are the master regulators of gene networks, so
to make the desired neurons, they have to get all of the right transcription
factors turned on.

They introduced the CRISPR gene activator and guide RNA library into the stem
cells so that each cell only received a single guide RNA, and therefore turned
on its particular corresponding transcription factor gene target. Then they
sorted the cells based on how red they became and sequenced the guide RNAs in
the most and least red cells, which told them which genes, when turned on,
made the cells more or less neuronal.

When they profiled the gene expression from the stem cells engineered with the
guide RNAs, the results suggested that the corresponding cells generated more
specific and more mature types of neurons. They also found genes that worked
together when targeted simultaneously. Moreover, the experiment revealed
factors that antagonized the neuronal commitment of the stem cells, and when
they used CRISPR-based repressors of those genes, they could also enhance the
neuronal specification.

However, these results were all just measuring markers of neurons. To know if
these engineered cells truly recapitulated the function of more mature
neurons, they needed to test their ability to transmit electrical signals.

For this, they turned to Professor Scott Soderling, the George Barth Geller
Distinguished Professor for Research in Molecular Biology and Chair of the
Duke Department of Cell Biology. Shataakshi Dube, a grad student in
Soderling’s lab, used a technique known as patch clamp electrophysiology to
measure the electrical signals inside the newly formed neurons. By poking a
tiny hole in the cell with a very small pipette, she could look inside the
neuron and see if it was transmitting electrical signals known as action
potentials. If so, the team knew the neuronal cell had properly matured. In
fact, the neurons engineered to activate a particular pair of transcription
factor genes were more functionally mature, emitting more action potentials
more frequently.

“I was curious but skeptical on how neuronal these stem cells could become,”
Dube said, “but it was remarkable to see how much these programmed cells
looked just like normal neurons.”

The process from stem cell to mature neuronal cell took seven days,
dramatically shortening the timeframe compared to other methods that take
weeks or months. This faster timeline has the potential to significantly
accelerate the development and testing of new therapies for neurological
disorders.

Creating better cells will help researchers in a number of ways. Diseases like
Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, and schizophrenia most often occur
in adults and are difficult to study because making the right cells in the lab
is challenging. This new method can allow researchers to better model these
diseases and others. It can also help with drug screening, as different cells
respond to drugs differently.

More broadly, the same method for screening transcription factor genes and
gene networks could be used to improve methods to make any cell type, which
could be transformative for regenerative medicine and cell therapy.

For example, Gersbach’s group reported a method for using CRISPR-based gene
activation to convert human stem cells into muscle progenitor cells that could
regenerate damaged skeletal muscle tissue earlier this year.

“The key to this work is developing methods to use the power and scalability
of CRISPR-based DNA targeting to program any function into any cell type,”
Gersbach said. “By leveraging the gene networks already encoded in our genome,
our control over cell biology is dramatically improved.”

CITATION: “Master Regulators and Cofactors of Human Neuronal Cell Fate
Specification Identified by CRISPR Gene Activation Screens,” Joshua B Black,
Sean R McCutcheon, Shataakshi Dube, Alejandro Barrera, Tyler S Klann, Grayson
A Rice, Shaunak S Adkar, Scott H Soderling, Timothy E. Reddy and Charles A
Gersbach. Cell Reports, Dec. 1, 2020, DOI: 10.1016/j.celrep.2020.108460

## Related News

February 18, 2019

### Single CRISPR Treatment Provides Long-Term Benefits in Mice

January 04, 2016

### CRISPR Treats Genetic Disorder in Adult Mammal

October 26, 2015

### CRISPR Brings Precise Control to Gene Expression

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

