

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Leverages Cryo-Electron Microscope Facility in the Race for Coronavirus
Vaccine

April 2, 2020

Despite most of campus being shut down, Duke Engineers are keeping an advanced
electron microscope running to help find the coronavirus's Achilles heel

_Adapted from a Duke University School of Medicine story written by Lindsay
Key_

Although most research laboratories at Duke University are shuttered to
prevent future transmission of the COVID-19 coronavirus, one of the few to
remain open is the Shared Materials Instrumentation Facility (SMIF), which
houses a Duke shared cleanroom and characterization facilities. And of the
typical 550-plus SMIF users, only a few are now allowed to work in the
facility on COVID-19 research.

One of the key instruments in the SMIF is a multimillion-dollar cryo-electron
microscope (cryo-EM for short), the Titan Krios, which is able to “see”
proteins in atomic-level detail by taking hundreds of thousands of molecular
images of a biological specimen and then classifying and averaging them with
powerful software to create a 3D image, and ultimately, a model of the
protein.

And keeping the machine creating these atomic-level images is no easy feat. In
the time of coronavirus, the complex machine is being entirely supported by
only two engineers—Mark Walters, director of SMIF, in which the Titan Krios
resides, and Holly Leddy, a cryo-EM specialist on the SMIF staff.

In the case of the coronavirus, Duke School of Medicine scientist Priyamvada
Acharya and her team are using the Krios to determine structures of the
coronavirus spike protein—the part of the virus that sticks out, attaches with
the host and helps the virus enter into human cells.

“We are using the information to learn, at a basic level, details of how the
spike functions, and translate this knowledge for vaccine design,” said
Acharya, PhD, an associate professor of surgery in the School of Medicine and
director of the Division of Structural Biology at the Duke Human Vaccine
Institute.

Better understanding of the structure and function of the spike will also help
the team develop molecular hooks to pull out antibodies from the blood of
COVID-19 patients, which could be used for vaccine development.

Acharya has been using a similar approach in her quest to develop a vaccine
for HIV.

“Cryo-EM helps you rapidly figure out the fine details of intermolecular
interactions, thereby giving you the tools to manipulate those interactions to
make the best vaccines to trigger the immune system to make protective
antibodies,” she said.

But figuring out these fine details is harder than it sounds and is made even
harder by the personnel and distancing restrictions made necessary to keep
everyone involved safe. For example, the Titan Krios’s sample chamber
continuously consumes liquid nitrogen to keep samples at sufficiently low
temperatures to work—hence the term “cryo.” And it’s a hungry beast. The
machine goes through a large canister of liquid nitrogen about every five
days.

“With the building being locked and with a significantly reduced staff, we
have to closely coordinate to make sure the deliveries arrive when Holly or I
are here to let the Airgas nitrogen delivery into the lab,” said Walters. “We
also have to stagger our schedules and practice social distancing while we’re
helping the researchers.”

For example, only two people are allowed at the Cryo-EM controls at a time,
and those two people must maintain at least a six-foot distance from each
other. This means one person will be working the controls while the other is
standing back more than six feet. They also wipe down the keyboards and
controls at least daily and wear gloves when touching them. Once samples are
loaded into the machine and initial alignments are performed, however, just
about all the other functions can be controlled remotely.

“A typical experiment using the Cryo-EM has Holly loading the samples then
stepping away so that I can come in and assist the researchers with the
alignments and getting the run set up,” said Walters. “Then once it’s set up,
we leave and the researchers and I can run and monitor data collection
remotely.”

Despite these challenges and complications, everyone agrees that keeping the
machine running is worth the hassle. This operation is a great example of how
the School of Medicine and the Pratt School of Engineering (where SMIF
resides) support each other and work together on critical COVID-19 research.

“As we move towards the development of a safe and effective vaccine for
COVID-19, it’s absolutely imperative that we understand which parts of the
virus we need to use for immunization,” said Colin Duckett, vice dean for
basic sciences in the School of Medicine. “The right parts will train the
immune system to kill virally-infected cells without harmful side effects, but
we can only figure that out if we know the active structure of the key
proteins, especially the spike protein. That’s where Dr. Acharya’s group comes
in. The progress that Dr. Acharya and her team have made so rapidly is nothing
short of remarkable.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

