

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Data-Savvy Students

March 14, 2017

A new course aims to make data competency a signature strength of every Duke
Engineering undergraduate

Imagine what we could do with the streams of data rushing from Fitbits, Nests,
satellites, microscopy, smart buildings, mobile phones, auto dashboards,
credit card purchases and just about every other source of information that’s
captured, tracked and shared. Stacy Tantum wants every Duke engineer to be
able to envision the possibilities—and to turn them into reality.

“With all this rich data, how can we interpret it to learn new things, see
unexpected patterns and make better decisions?” she says. “These are skills we
want all of our students to have.”

As the Bell-Rhodes Associate Professor of the Practice in the Pratt School of
Engineering, Tantum is leading development of a creative new course designed
to give every engineering undergraduate a foundation in the fast-growing field
of data science. Piloting this fall, “Introduction to Data & Decision
Sciences” will soon be a sophomore-year staple.

It’s part of a **triad of new or revised courses set to debut over the next
year that will transform the Duke Engineering undergraduate experience**. Also
including a first-year, team-based engineering design course and an applied
computing course, the requirements will create “a signature undergraduate
curriculum that gives all students project- and problem-based engineering
experiences early in their studies,” according to Dean Ravi Bellamkonda.

With a focus on team-based, authentic problem-solving, the new data course
builds on a highly successful summer program called “Data+.” The award-winning
program led by the Information Initiative at Duke (iiD) brings small groups of
undergraduates, graduate students and faculty together to design data-driven
solutions to interdisciplinary challenges, most provided by external clients.
(Read more about Duke Engineering students' experience in Data+)

The approach has proven enormously popular, and may even aid **recruitment and
retention of students underrepresented in the field** , according to iiD
director Robert Calderbank. “Data+ had over 300 applications for 70 spots in
2016—over half from women,” he says. “In a world where women are still
pursuing STEM majors at lower rates than men, that is encouraging.”

Plus, team-based labs that challenge students to solve real-world, potentially
messy challenges, combined with structured teaching, give the core concepts a
kind of “stickiness” that by-the-book approaches just can’t match, says
Tantum.

“We want our students to really dig into data science—to learn to define
problems, determine what data they need to answer questions, explore and
visualize the data using concepts from probability and statistics,” Tantum
says.

“Our goal is for each student to emerge with an understanding of how to use
data to inform and guide their work as engineers.”

**“Comfort with data will be an integral skill for engineers of the future,”**
adds Bellamkonda. “We see Duke as the place that will lead the way.”

* * *

## __ Intro to Data & Decision Sciences

New course for all Duke Engineering sophomores  
Piloting 2017-18 academic year

### Format:

  * 1 lecture, 2 labs each week
  * Includes both structured exercises and real-world problems
  * Student teams work on authentic problems from clients in industry,
    academia & beyond

### Learning objectives:

  * Defining the problem
  * Experiment design (gathering data)
  * Data visualization, exploration, and presentation
  * Probability and statistics concepts
  * Decision-making in the presence of uncertainty

### End goal:

All students learn how to extract information from real-world data to derive
insights, support informed decisions and guide their work as engineers

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

