

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Data Is for Everyone

August 18, 2020

Students in Duke’s Data+ program dive deep into data to gain insight into
unexpected fields of study

Each summer, the Rhodes Information Initiative at Duke’s Data+ program
illustrates some of the many ways data science can make a difference in the
real world. Faculty members and industry representatives who have data
problems or questions collaborate with small interdisciplinary teams for ten
weeks over the summer, solving problems and learning new approaches for
analyzing and visualizing data along the way.

“Engineering in the 21st century will combine disciplinary insight with data
science expertise,” said Rhodes Information Initiative at Duke Director Robert
Calderbank. “Data+ prepares students to succeed in the 21st century workforce
by combining computational skills with mentorship, hands-on experience, and
working in teams.”

> "Engineering in the 21st century will combine disciplinary insight with data
> science expertise."
>
> Robert Calderbank, DIRECTOR, RHODES INFORMATION INITIATIVE at Duke

Data+ is not just for students of computer science or computer engineering; in
2020, its sixth year, more than 180 students from a dozen Duke majors
participated in Data+, composing more than 50 teams. There was something for
everyone who was interested in learning how to work more deeply with
data—whether it was modeling mechanical failures at sea, predicting blindness
in Duke’s glaucoma patients or examining how land use affects water quality
and aquatic ecosystems.

Alex Bussey ’22, a civil and environmental engineering student interested in
water resources, worked on the land use and water quality project along with
another engineering student and a student from Duke’s Nicholas School of the
Environment. Their team was directed by James Heffernan, a researcher at the
Duke River Center who is interested in learning how variables like land use,
nutrient inputs and canopy cover affect the condition of river ecosystems.

Bussey said that she spent the first two weeks simply learning how to code in
R, a statistical computing tool that helps users analyze and visualize data. A
PhD student of statistical science, Olivier Binette, mentored the team in
organizing its code to be easily reproducible and easily understood.

Then, it was on to the data. “We spent a lot of time scraping different
databases from organizations like the EPA and NGS,” said Bussey. “We had to
look at all that data and see if there were patterns—what insights could we
draw?”

> “We had to look at all that data and see if there were patterns—what
> insights could we draw?”
>
> Alex Bussey CEE '22

The novel aspect of her team’s research, said Bussey, was its scope.
Researchers focusing on the relationship between land use and river ecosystems
generally look at one site at a time, but the Data+ team was essentially
taking a birds-eye view, looking at 100 sites around the state. And her team
was surprised to find that land development and the condition of aquatic
ecosystems did not correspond in a strictly linear fashion—more developed
surface area did not always result in more active microbial communities in the
rivers and streams nearby. Why that is, exactly, is a question for future
research.

Hussey said that apart from learning to program in R—a new skill for her, but
one she feels will be useful to her future—she became adept at interacting
virtually with a team and giving virtual presentations. “I’ve also learned to
‘zoom out,’” she said, “and bring technical information down to a more general
level.”

Learn More

## Related News

July 07, 2020

### Data+ Alums Talk Career Paths and Mentoring with Duke Students

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

