

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# A Day of STEM for Girls

March 10, 2020

FEMMES capstone event offers hands-on activities—from practicing lifesaving
techniques to learning how the human brain works

_By Meghna Datta, forDuke Research Blog _

On any average weekday at Duke University, a walk through the Engineering Quad
and down Science Drive would yield the vibrant and exciting sight of bleary-
eyed, caffeine-dependent college students heading to labs or lectures, most
definitely with Airpods stuck in their ears.

But on Saturday, February 22nd, a glance towards this side of campus would
have shown you nearly 200 energetic and chatty female and female-identifying
4th to 6th graders from the Durham area. As part of Capstone, an event
organized by Duke FEMMES and advised by Duke civil and environmental
engineering professor Heileen Hsu-Kim, these students spent the day in a
series of four hands-on STEM activities designed to give them exposure to
different science, technology, engineering, and math disciplines.

FEMMES, which stands for Females Excelling More in Math, Engineering, and
Science, is an organization comprised of Duke students with the aim of
improving female participation in STEM subjects. Their focus starts young:
FEMMES uses hands-on programming for young girls and hosts various events
throughout the year, including after-school activities at nearby schools and
summer camps.

Capstone was a day of fun STEM exposure divided into four events stationed
along Science Drive and E-Quad—two in the morning, and two in the afternoon,
with a break for lunch. Students were separated into groups of around eight,
and were led by two to three Duke undergraduates and a high school student.
The day started bright and early at 8:45 A.M with keynote speaker Stacy Bilbo,
Duke professor of Psychology and Neuroscience.

Bilbo explained that her work centers around microglial cells, a type of brain
cell. A series of slides about her journey into a science career sparked awe,
especially as she remarked that microglial cells are significant players in
our immune system, but scientists used to know nearly nothing about them.
Perhaps most impactful, however, was a particular slide depicting microglial
cells as macrophages, because they literally eat cellular debris and dead
neurons.

A cartoon depiction of this phenomenon generated a variety of reactions from
the young audience, including but not limited to: “I’m NEVER being a doctor!”,
“I wish I was a microglial cell!”, “Ew, why are brains so gross?”, and “I’m so
glad I’m not a brain because that’s SO weird.”

Even in 2020, while fields like medicine and veterinary science see more women
than men, only 20% of students that earn bachelor’s degrees in physical
sciences, math, and engineering disciplines are female. What accounts for the
dramatic lack of female participation in STEM disciplines? The reasons are
nuanced and varied. For example, according to a 2010 research report by the
American Association of University Women, girls tend to have more difficulty
acquiring spatial thinking and reasoning skills—all because of the type of
play young female children are more likely to engage in.

This creates a chicken-and-egg story: girls don’t enter STEM at the same rate
as their male counterparts, and as a result, future generations of girls are
discouraged from pursuing STEM because they don’t see as many accomplished,
visibly female scientists to look up to. Spaces like Capstone which encourage
hands-on activity are key to exposing girls to the same activities that their
male counterparts engage in on a regular basis – and to exposing girls to a
world of incredible science and discovery led by other females.

After Bilbo’s talk, it was off to the activities, led by distinguished female
professors at Duke—a nod to the importance of representation when encouraging
female participation in science. For example, one of the computer science
activities, led by Susan Rodger, taught girls how to use basic CS skills to
create 3-D interactive animation.

An introduction to categorizing different minerals based on appearance was led
by Emily Klein, while one of the medicine-centered activities involved Duke
EMS imparting first aid skills onto the students.

For one of the biology-themed activities, Nina Sherwood and Emily Ozdowski
(dubbed “The Fly Ladies”) showed students fruit flies under a microscope. The
activity clearly split the group: girls who stared in glee at unconscious
flies, shrieking “It’s SO BIG, look at it!” and girls who exchanged disgusted
looks, edging their swivel chairs as far as physically possible from the lab
benches. Elizabeth Bucholz, a Biomedical Engineering professor, led one of the
engineering activities, showing students how CT scans generate images using
paper, a keychain light and a block (meant to represent the body). In math,
meanwhile, Shira Viel used the activity of jump-roping to show how fractions
can untangle the inevitable and ensuing snarls.

The day definitely wasn’t all science. During lunch in LSRC’s Love Auditorium,
most groups spread out after scarfing down pizza and spent intense focus over
learning (and recording) TikTok dances, and when walking down Science Drive
under blue and sunny skies, conversations ranged from the sequins on someone’s
Ugg boots to how to properly bathe one’s dog, to yelling erupting over someone
confidently proclaiming that they were a die-hard Tar Heel.

A raffle at the end of the day for the chance to win Duke merchandise inspired
many closed eyes and crossed fingers (“I want a waterbottle so bad, you have
no idea!”) And as newfound friends said goodbye to each other and wistfully
bonded over how much fun they had at the end of the day, one thing was clear:
events like Capstone are crucial to instilling confidence and a love of STEM
in girls.

Volunteer with FEMMES

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

