

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Design Health Program Launches at Duke Engineering

July 8, 2019

New program assembles teams across engineering, medicine and business to
design solutions for unmet needs in hospitals and clinics

A new program is bridging the expertise in Duke University’s Pratt School of
Engineering, School of Medicine, Trinity College of Arts & Sciences and Fuqua
School of Business to create real-world solutions to pressing needs in health
care. Officially launching in August of 2019 after a successful pilot this
past academic year, the Duke Design Health Program offers an intensive nine-
month experience in which students and trainees actively identify, validate,
prioritize and create solutions to problems that impact human health.

The competitive extracurricular program is open to graduate and undergraduate
students from the Pratt School of Engineering and Trinity College of Arts &
Sciences, second-year MBA students from the Fuqua School of Business,
residents and fellows from Duke’s School of Medicine and students from other
schools across Duke. In partnership with Duke Health, students will form teams
and immerse themselves in various clinical environments, where they’ll observe
any challenges that physicians, health care providers, or patients face.
They’ll then use these observations to design and prototype clinical tools to
address these challenges.

“Medical development too often begins with the incremental specification of a
solution, and then after some years of development you end up with a product
that meets your specified needs,” says Paul Fearis, a senior lecturing fellow
in Duke’s Department of Biomedical Engineering (BME) who is among the faculty
leading the program. “This program will instead help students start the design
process all the way back in the operating room, at the patient’s bedside or at
the nurses’ station. We’re immersing these students into an environment where
they can directly see what problems they can address, and then develop
practical, real-world solutions.”

Students can pursue two roles through the program, including Design Health
Associates and Design Health Fellows. Associates are students from any school
within Duke who help design and execute the project.

Design Health Fellows can be graduate students or medical trainees from any
school. As the most in-depth role, Fellows are expected to participate in a
three-week summer boot camp to start the clinical immersion process and
receive additional training.

“This is an unparalleled opportunity for our clinical fellows to be immersed
with engineers and MBA students and learn the process by which they can take
common clinical problems and build solutions,” says Manesh Patel, MD, chief of
the Division of Cardiology, director of the Duke Heart Center and partner of
the Design Health Program.

“As a physician you try to do everything you can to improve patient care and
patient outcomes, and that’s typically though the traditional patient and
physician interaction in the clinic and hospital,” says David Manly, MD, a
third-year cardiology fellow at Duke. “The Design Health program was a unique
opportunity to make an impact through an entirely different avenue.”

Helmed by Eric Richardson, Fearis and Joseph A. Knight, the Design Health
program utilizes the diverse backgrounds of its leadership team to better
prepare students for careers in industry. Both Richardson and Ann Saterbak, a
professor of the practice in BME, helped develop innovative design programs at
Rice University prior to their arrival at Duke, and Fearis joined Duke after
28 years in the medical device consulting industry. Knight, an adjunct
professor in the Pratt School of Engineering and Core Faculty in Duke’s
Innovation & Entrepreneurship Initiative, will bring his business background
to help bridge the gap between business and medicine.

“Design Health participants will receive hands-on coaching and mentorship from
experts in medicine, product development, engineering and entrepreneurship,”
says Richardson. “Our goal is to educate students across Duke to identify
problems in health care and empower them to solve those problems.”

“When you’re on a team of engineers your perspective can sometimes be limited
to your own knowledge about the topic, but when you’re actively working with
physicians you have a whole new perspective on the problem you’re working on
and what solutions are available to you,” says Maggi Strom, a master’s student
in Duke BME.

Currently in its pilot year with 11 Fellows, the Design Health Program is part
of a larger push across both Pratt and BME to provide real-world design
experience for engineering students interested in careers in industry.
Saterbak is currently leading the First-Year Design experience, which allows
new engineering students to design projects that address a need for community
partners. Palmeri has also helped launched new design courses for both
graduate and undergraduate BME students, including the two-semester Medical
Device Design course and the three-semester BME Design Fellows program.

“The Design Health Program provides a chance for our students to identify and
prioritize problems or areas in medicine that have been underserved,” says
Richardson. “Beyond building up practical design skills, it gives our students
a chance to immerse themselves in a clinical environment and then create novel
solutions with an interdisciplinary team.”

To learn more about the Design Health Program, please visit the official
Design Health website here.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

