

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Designing for Extremes: CEE Program Challenges Students to Plan for the
Unexpected

May 9, 2017 | By Michaela Kane

A new program in risk and resilience considers how changes to our
interconnected world can affect engineered systems.

In the design of a water supply system, a power grid, or even a cyber network,
engineers plan for the range of conditions that their structures are likely
encounter. But as the world becomes more connected, our modern engineered
systems are subject to ever-evolving demands that can differ from what the
designers originally anticipated––sometimes in completely unexpected ways. In
a new suite of educational programs, faculty in Duke University’s Department
of Civil and Environmental Engineering (CEE) aim to teach students how to
anticipate and design for extreme events, like natural disasters, public
health crises or terrorist attacks.

Traditional reliability engineering is concerned with how to safely design
systems for well-understood behavior and operating conditions. The new _Risk_
_and_ _Resilience_ Program explores how systems can sustain and even improve
their performance, under broader, unexpected situations. To do so, this new
program challenges both graduate and undergraduate students to examine and
plan for a wide range of physical, environmental, and social scenarios that
may be judged to have low probability but high consequence. Such situations,
caused by severe weather, power outages, or cyber disruption, could affect all
sectors of society if individual components, or the entire system, were not
designed to be robust or adaptable to extreme events.

“We’re trying to put this program in the context of a future that we know is
going to be changing, while recognizing there’s a lot of uncertainty and
variability about exactly what those decades-long changes will be,” says CEE
professor Henri Gavin, a co-creator of the program.

Recent events have highlighted the need for systems that account for
uncertainty in their design. For example, in February of 2017, more than
180,000 people were evacuated from Oroville, California after unexpected
erosion and intense rain created a hole in one of the emergency spillways of
the Oroville Dam, threatening to flood the surrounding area.

“We’re seeing regular occurrences of events that we could have never
previously predicted, owing, at least in part, to a changing climate, enhanced
global connectivity, and evolving social institutions,” says Mark Borsuk,
associate professor in CEE and the program’s co-creator. “After these
unexpected events, I think people are more aware and sensitive of the need to
be better at assessing risk. We also know that we can’t always predict things
accurately, so it means we need to create systems that are robust in case
things don’t turn out exactly as we expect.”

To prepare engineers who can take a broad, systems-based approach to
addressing uncertainty and risk, Duke CEE is creating a new PhD track in
_Systems, Risk, and Decisions_ , as well as launching a new Master of Risk
Engineering program in the fall of 2018. The goal is to provide students with
both a deeper and broader training in risk analysis and design than they would
have received during their undergraduate career, all while continuing to build
on traditional engineering principles. Graduates will be prepared for careers
in fields such as environment and population health, materials and structures,
energy and climate systems and even finance and reinsurance.

In addition to the new graduate tracks, Borsuk and Gavin are introducing the
basics of risk and resiliency to undergraduates in courses such as
“Uncertainty, Design, and Optimization” (CEE 201L) and “Engineering Systems,
Optimization, and Economics,” (EGR 305). In CEE 201L, students create models
of complex systems, like water resources, stock prices and power systems, and
then use these models to optimize system performance and evaluate resilience
to time-varying hazards. In addition to facing the challenge of the unknown,
these designs are also constrained by the financial, physical, or societal
limitations imposed by the real world.

“We initiated this course to provide realistic design experiences early in
their curriculum,” says Gavin. “We’ve tried to make the projects as realistic
as possible by placing them in the mess of the real world. Students quickly
learn that accounting for uncertainties is essential for a robust design.”

The new focus on risk, uncertainty and resilient system design will connect to
Duke CEE’s research strengths in areas such as heavy data analytics for
complex infrastructure systems, chemical and material impacts on environmental
and public health, climate change and water resources, and geomechanical
systems, according to department chair Mark Wiesner. “Our faculty are
developing the advanced computational tools and measurement techniques to help
us understand a wide range of urgent issues facing the world today,” he says,
“and our integrated approach across disciplines gives us an unusual
advantage.”

“This is a way to modernize our view towards civil engineering and give
students that broader, interdisciplinary perspective,” adds Borsuk. “We’re
collaborating with researchers from fields such as law, global health,
environment and policy to approach these problems in a systemic way, and it’s
exciting because there is a lot of untapped potential.”

In that spirit, Borsuk is working to spearhead similar initiatives in
different areas at Duke. He is a lead member of the “Decisions on Complex
Interdisciplinary Problems of Health and Environmental Risk” (D-CIPHER) Bass
Connections Project, which will be investigating the multiple technical,
societal, and cultural dimensions of risk. During the 2017-2018 project, the
interdisciplinary team will focus on the history of fluorine refrigerants,
which were found to deplete the ozone layer and were successfully phased out,
with the unintended consequence of generating substitutes that are potent
greenhouse gasses.

**“** Sometimes solving one problem just introduces another,” says Borsuk.
“Through this collaboration we’re approaching these situations from multiple
angles, and we’re really trying to understand how differing perspectives on
risk and uncertainty inform and influence decisions.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

