

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Design on a Global Scale

October 24, 2018

From Uganda to Guatemala, Duke BME design projects make an impact that extends
beyond the classroom

Today, nearly 60 percent of babies develop jaundice in the days after their
birth. Caused by a buildup of bilirupin in the blood, the disorder is
characterized by a yellowing of the skin and eyes, and if left untreated, can
lead to brain damage in newborns.

In hospitals like the Duke University Medical Center, one of the standard
treatments is light-therapy using a specialized incubator or blanket, where a
child is placed under blue lights that can break down the excess bilirubin
molecules in their blood. But in countries with limited resources, this
therapy is rarely available, and parents are often left with ad hoc treatment
options––like daily sunlight exposure––that don’t effectively cure the more
severe forms of jaundice.

This was one of the problems Duke BME students attempted to solve through
their senior design course in the Duke-Makerere University BME partnership, a
collaborative program between Duke University’s Department of Biomedical
Engineering and the BME Program at Makerere University in Kampala, Uganda.

Led by William (Monty) Reichert, the Theo Pilkington Professor of Biomedical
Engineering and Global Health, the program was created in 2016 after Reichert
spent the previous academic year as a Fulbright Scholar teaching courses and
revising the BME department at Makerere University. Upon his return, he
proposed the creation of a unique partnership between the schools that would
allow Duke students to work with their Makerere counterparts to approach
engineering problems with cost-efficient and practical solutions that can be
implemented in resource-limited settings.

In the years since the program’s creation, student projects have included a
system to improve vaccine transport, a point-of-care screening test for
preeclampsia in pregnant women and an oxygen regulator to control the supply
of oxygen to newborns in the neonatal ward at the Mulago Hospital in Kampala,
Uganda. Students have also tackled the issues surrounding jaundice by creating
a ‘jaundice crib’–– a large box threaded with cost-efficient blue LED lights
to provide light therapy from above and below.

“There is no shortage of problems in resource-limited settings that need
engineering solutions, and they don’t always need particularly sophisticated
ones,” says Reichert. “If you’re looking to see how your work is relevant on a
human scale, then there is great value in understanding and devising solutions
to these challenges.”

Nimmi Ramanujam, the Robert W. Carr Jr. Professor of Biomedical Engineering
and the director of Duke’s Global Women’s Health Technologies Center, has made
human-centered design a signature of her course, BME 230: Global Women’s
Health Technologies. During the program, which is open to students in the
Pratt School of Engineering and the Trinity College of Arts & Sciences,
students work with clients across Duke to rapidly prototype tools that can
benefit girls and women in energy-poor communities. In addition to teaching
practical engineering skills, like 3D printing or soldering, Ramanujam aims to
teach students how they can empathetically approach engineering problems to
deliver a creative solution that will serve the needs of females in the least
resourced parts of the world.

The main problem the students try to address through the course is light
poverty, which affects communities who do not have consistent access to
electricity. The issue disproportionately impacts women. During the semester,
student teams collaborate with clients who work closely with women and girls
in international communities and use their feedback to refine their prototypes
and create low-cost, renewable-energy-based sustainable lighting solutions
that can be easily made and used in resource-limited areas.

“The course strives to help students navigate the human-centered design
process in a way that helps them contextualize the problem and solution to the
needs of the specific community, something that is often overlooked,” says
Ramanujam. “Many of the students who have taken the design course travel
through Duke Engage, where they teach the curriculum they have just learned to
women and girls across the globe, who then teach it to their respective
communities. The idea is to create a virtuous cycle of capacity building and
empowerment through design thinking. Over the last five years, 37 of the more
than 100 Duke students who have taken this course have directly or indirectly
impacted more than 1000 girls and women across four continents.”

Robert Malkin, a professor of the practice in BME, uses his design
course––Design for the Developing World––to challenge students to think
outside the box for their designs while still being realistic about cost and
utility.

Students typically create five to 10 new products a year, which are then used
in hospitals in resource-limited settings. One of the more enduring and far-
reaching projects created through Design for the Developing World is the Pratt
Pouch, a single-serve, ketchup-packet-like container that protects
antiretroviral medications when not refrigerated – critical to preventing
mother-to-child transmission of HIV after childbirth in warm regions or in
places with spotty electricity.

As global health education expands in Duke BME, Reichert, Ramanujam and Malkin
are hopeful that the students who participate in their courses are broadening
not only their technical, cultural, problem-solving and entrepreneurial
skills, but also their understanding about how they can use engineering to
help others as they work in resource-limited settings around the globe.

“If you really want to help the developing world, you need to be in the
developing world,” says Malkin. “These programs give students an opportunity
to do just that.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

