

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# DGHI and Pratt Support New Interdisciplinary Studies in Global Health,
Engineering

December 4, 2013

The funding is part of an initiative to promote interdisciplinary work in
global cancer

Three teams of Duke faculty researchers from global health, medicine and
engineering have been awarded funding to begin new studies on cancer
detection, diagnosis and treatment in resource-limited settings. The funding
is part of an initiative by the Duke Global Health Institute and the Pratt
School of Engineering to promote interdisciplinary work in global cancer.

The funding was awarded to Nelson Chao, Ashutosh Chilkoti, Walter Lee, Robert
Malkin, Nimmi Ramanujam, John Schmitt and Peyton Taylor. They will each be
working on the early detection and diagnosis of various cancers across East
Africa and Asia.

Cancer is increasingly claiming the lives of millions of people around the
globe, with 70 percent of deaths occurring in low- and middle-income
countries. Thirty percent of those deaths are preventable, and with more
opportunities to jumpstart new work in cancer research, like those at Duke, we
can address the complexities of the disease and improve the odds.

Robert Malkin, professor of the practice of biomedical engineering at Pratt,
and Walter Lee, co-director of the head and neck program at the Duke Cancer
Institute, will work with Vietnamese partners at Ha Noi Medical University to
explore the feasibility of using a low-cost, portable, fiber optic
nasolaryngoscope device for the rapid screening and early detection of head
and neck cancers in Vietnam. These types of cancers are often difficult to
diagnose due to complex anatomy, lack of equipment and limited expertise of
health care providers.

“We are very grateful for the support from Pratt and DGHI,” said Lee. “This
award enables our international, interdisciplinary team to not only provide
needed resources through these scopes, but also build on the knowledge and
expertise of Vietnamese health care providers. Our hope is that this pilot in
Vietnam would be the model to help address the cancer burden in other low- and
middle-income countries.”

Ashutosh Chilkoti, professor of biomedical engineering at Duke, is working
with Nelson Chao, professor of medicine, immunology, pathology and global
health, as well as partners in Africa and Asia, to field test the feasibility
of a simple point-of-care test to diagnose prostate and liver cancers in
Moshi, Tanzania and Hangzhou, China. The test is optimal for resource-limited
settings because it is inexpensive, uses a single drop of human blood, and
samples can be stored without refrigeration. The test may also be useful for
determining the effectiveness of treatment.

"These funds, to validate our technology, are invaluable as they are difficult
to get from other, more traditional sources of funding,” said Chilkoti. “It
will allow us to put our new point-of-care test through its paces in a low-
and middle-income setting with clinical samples."

Nimmi Ramanujam, professor of biomedical engineering and global health, John
Schmitt, professor of obstetrics and gynecology, and Peyton Taylor, consulting
professor of obstetrics and gynecology, will work with partners at Kilimanjaro
Christian Medical Center in Tanzania to integrate the diagnosis and treatment
of cervical pre-cancer in one patient visit. They will test a device called a
colpospectroscope in patients with cervical cancer. Using this technique,
cervical abnormalities can be seen and diagnosed “on the spot” in a single
visit. Otherwise, the standard practice of regular pap smear screenings may
not be practical in low- and middle-income settings where there is limited
infrastructure and resources, and where patients are lost at each level of
care.

“Being a recipient of this award means a great deal more than just the
monetary amount with which it is associated,” said Ramanujam. “This
collaborative effort between Pratt and DGHI will allow us to create an
essential infrastructure required of such a rigorous international clinical
study like ours.”

Learn more about this and other DGHI funding opportunities available to Duke
faculty.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

