

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Engineered "Spaghetti-Ball" Proteins Provide Biomedical Insights

January 30, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

Synthetic proteins may reveal cellular functions and provide commercial
applications

Biomedical engineers at Duke University and the University of New Mexico have
engineered the first examples of biomimetic structures composed of a
mysterious class of proteins that lack any sort of internal structure. The
advance may help scientists investigate functioning cells and provide a new
route to targeted drug delivery and regenerative medicine.

The hallmark of a protein's function is its ability to fold into intricate
pieces of origami to interact with specific biomolecular structures. While
researchers work to identify hundreds of thousands of unknown protein
structures to better understand them, a different class of proteins has flown
somewhat under the radar.

Originally reported as little dots within cells for a lack of a better term,
these proteins form fluid, gel-like assemblies or particles that have no set
or identifiable internal structure. They are "intrinsically disordered," much
like a clump of spaghetti that, while completely random, still stays
resolutely together while being served to a hungry family.

Reports show, however, that these proteins are instrumental to cellular
function, performing actions like controlling where reactions happen and
bringing molecules together in specific locations. But due to their disordered
nature, engineering them in the laboratory remained a challenge.

In a paper published on Jan. 30 in the journal Nature Chemistry, researchers
from Duke University, the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill and the
University of New Mexico (UNM) reveal the ability to control the self-assembly
and disassembly of these structures in an organized manner. The advance will
allow more thorough studies of these interesting proteins, while also
providing new opportunities for biomedical applications.

"One of our major efforts has been to understand the self-assembly of these
types of proteins and use them as building materials," said Gabriel Lopez,
vice president for research at UNM, who began the work as director of the
Materials Research Science and Engineering Center (MRSEC) at Duke University.
"Usually you don't think of proteins in material science, but our focus was to
use proteins as materials to make larger structures."

"It's been a long journey," echoed Ashutosh Chilkoti, chair of the Biomedical
Engineering Department at Duke who helped lead the effort. "There's been a lot
of work done on understanding their cellular functions, but not very much on
engineering them. This work will help us better understand these complex
particles and find new uses for them."

In the paper, the researchers describe a process resembling the oil and water
droplets that form in salad dressing. Except here, the "oil" is drop of a
concentrated protein solution whose size and formation is triggered by
environmental stimuli. This allows the creation of droplets that will coat one
another, like assembling an onion of different proteins that form concentric
layers.

The researchers show they can genetically program when the various stages of
'onion formation' happen. As the temperature is raised, for example, the
proteins go from being soluble to insoluble so that they form a protein-rich
droplet. With several such proteins in a solution, further increases in
temperature cause a second protein to form a layer around the first. Other
environmental factors, such as pH levels, can also trigger such formations.

"It was important to verify that we have two separate 'knobs' to turn to
adjust the sequence and the type of layers in this 'onion,'" said Michael
Rubinstein, the John P. Barker Distinguished Professor of Chemistry at the
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. "We can either change the
sequence of amino acids in the proteins or vary the number of these amino
acids per molecule. We can also add proteins containing hydrophobic and
hydrophilic blocks that act like soap breaking some layers of our 'onions'
into tiny droplets that look like raisins in a muffin."

"I hope the platform we have developed will help us understand how different
genetic sequences in disordered proteins influence their behavior and
function," said Joseph Simon, a graduate student in Chilkoti's group at Duke
who is the co-first author on the paper. "The ability to make onion-like
particles of these proteins and control their size will allow for their use in
a multitude of exciting applications."

One application disordered proteins could be used for is drug delivery. The
researchers already are making small particles that can be loaded with drugs
and targeted to tumor or disease sites for delivery.

Another area involves tissue engineering, where each droplet might carry a
cell for tissue assembly that could repair a portion of a damaged organ. For
example, these little droplets could carry the building blocks of functional
cardiac muscle that could replace damaged tissue after heart attack. They
could even form the basis for a biological "toner" for use in a bio-printer.

"We want to better understand the rules governing their assembly to not only
leverage the functionality of these proteins for medical applications, but
also to investigate deregulated protein phase transitions in cells thought to
contribute to various disease," said Nick Carroll, assistant professor of
chemical and biological engineering at UNM. "We're just beginning to
understand these structures and their applications, so it's a very exciting
discovery."

This work was funded through a six-year, $13.2 million National Science
Foundation collaborative agreement between Duke University, University of
North Carolina, Chapel Hill and the University of New Mexico. This work was
also supported by the National Institutes of Health and the Cystic Fibrosis
Foundation.

CITATION: Simon JR, Carroll NC, Rubinstein M, Chilkoti A and Lopez GP.
"Programming molecular self-assembly of intrinsically disordered proteins
containing sequences of low-complexity," Nature Chemistry, Jan. 30, 2017. DOI:
10.1038/NCHEM.2715

###

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

