

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Dispersal Patterns Key to Invasive Species' Success

January 21, 2014 | By Ken Kingery

Bacterial test of a theory has implications for ecology and infectious disease

In 1859 an Australian farmer named Thomas Austin released 24 grey rabbits from
Europe into the wild because it “could do little harm and might provide a
touch of home, in addition to a spot of hunting.”

By the end of the century, the rabbits had begun to overrun native ecosystems,
reaching nationwide numbers of 600 million by 1950. They were propagating
under a principle known as the Allee effect—the observation that larger groups
of animals do better at establishing populations in a new environment. Had
Austin instead spread the rabbits into many smaller groups across the
landscape, things might have turned out differently.

With the help of E. coli and some clever synthetic biology techniques,
engineers at Duke University have now tested the limits of the Allee effect.
The results have implications for both ecologists dealing with invasive
species and medical practitioners fighting infections.

Organisms exhibiting a very strong Allee effect need a certain number of
individuals to survive, below which the group will collapse. And while
intuition suggests that the more places a species spreads, the more it will
thrive, scattering a population too thin by forming too many new colonies
could result in the ruin of them all.

The paper appears online in the Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences the week of Jan. 20.

“From the perspective of an invasive species, it appears to be a good idea to
spread out to many different habitats simultaneously,” said Lingchong You,
associate professor of biomedical engineering at Duke. “If they all survive,
the overall growth is much more efficient. But there’s a catch because of the
Allee effect; there is also a greater chance each population will fall below
the critical threshold and every location will fail.”

“This can offer insights for people managing invasive species,” continued You.
“If you limit the number of targets that an invasive species can travel into,
you might inadvertently help them thrive.”

In the experiment, researchers engineered E. coli to produce a toxin that,
left to its own devices, would soon wipe out the entire colony of bacteria.
But they also put in a genetic switch that could turn their fortunes around;
if enough bacteria were present and the chemicals they use to signal one
another reached a certain concentration, they would begin producing an
antidote to the toxin. In this way, the bacteria were engineered to have a
high Allee effect.

The researchers then tested how well the bacteria did with different dispersal
rates. They plucked the bacteria from their original source wells and
colonized new ones. Each trial consisted of a different number of target
habitats, which affected the density of the new populations.

Just as theory predicted, the greatest success came when the dispersion rate
stayed in a happy middle ground. Too few new colonies and the bacteria barely
spread; too many and each floundered, including the original source.

The results also have important medical implications, according to You.

“People need to use caution when using antibiotics,” said You. “Our bodies’
natural microbes are in some ways the first line of defense against invaders,
which can often stop an infection from gaining a foothold. But if we
recklessly apply antibiotics, we may destroy these defenses and make it easier
for just a few foreign bacteria to spread and grow. We may remove their Allee
effect.”

Their work was supported in part by the National Science Foundation grant
CBET-0953202 and the National Institutes of Health grant 1R01GM098642.

###

CITATION: “Programmed Allee effect in bacteria causes a tradeoff between
population spread and survival,” Smith, R.P., Tan, C., Srimani, J.K., Pai, A.,
Riccione, K.A., Song, H., You, L. PNAS, Jan. 20, 2014. DOI:
10.1073/pnas.1315954111

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

