

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Distinguishing Solar Panels from Swimming Pools

August 29, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

Duke students and researchers are using deep learning to autonomously spot
solar panels from the sky

The face of America’s energy grid is changing rapidly with the constant
addition of small-scale solar panel installations. But due to a lack of
detailed information, that portrait looks more like a Picasso than a
Rembrandt.

Earlier this year, the United States hit a benchmark of one million solar
installations, generating enough electricity to power 5.7 million homes. That
number is expected to double in just two years.

While these data are tracked on a large scale—states provide information to
the federal Department of Energy roughly once per year—there is little
information about exactly where solar energy is being adopted on a county,
city or neighborhood level. This is an oversight that the Department of Energy
and other government agencies are turning to researchers to fix, including an
interdisciplinary group at Duke University, led by Leslie Collins, professor
of electrical and computer engineering and biomedical engineering at Duke.

“Our power grid is designed for a single centralized power source to
distribute energy out to the public,” said Kyle Bradbury, managing director of
the Energy Data Analytics Lab at Duke. “But more and more we’re seeing these
small solar panel installations being connected to the grid and actually
contributing power. At some point, the needs of our power lines and grid
infrastructure are going to change.”

Regulatory agencies would like to get out in front of this shift toward
distributed power generation, if possible. With precise data about where solar
energy is being adopted and how it is changing over time, officials could
predict where to install new technology to meet changing demands. Social
scientists could get a better understanding of how policy affects the adoption
of solar panels. Economists could better value the future of the 8,000 solar
companies employing more than 200,000 American workers.

At present, however, the only way to get this information is to go through the
local public utility commission interconnection records, which is a tedious
and not easily automated task. Alternatively, one could enlist the help of a
group of students to pore over satellite images and pick out solar panels by
hand—also a tedious task.

But that’s exactly what Collins and Bradbury did through the summer Data+
Program and an ongoing Bass Connections project. Data+ is a 10-week summer
research experience for Duke undergraduates interested in data-driven
approaches to interdisciplinary challenges. Bass Connections is a program at
Duke offering grants to interdisciplinary collaborations.

In the Data+ project, students built a data set to train computers to spot
solar panels by meticulously annotating 58 square miles of satellite imagery
of Fresno, California. That dataset formed the foundation for a Bass
Connections project where students explored real-world machine learning
techniques applied to relevant energy questions, including the hunt for solar
panels.

And luckily for everyone, the summer spent circling solar panels appears to
have been enough to train a computer to do the job.

“The aerial imagery being developed now has resolution down to about a foot,
so you can see the solar panels by eye,” said Jordan Malof, a research
scientist in Collins’s lab, who works on the algorithms designed to spot solar
panels and leads the research in the Bass Connections project. “And the rule
of thumb is that if a human can see it, then you can probably program a
computer to see it too.”

To teach computers how to spot solar panels, Malof is turning to “deep
learning”—a buzzword in computer science circles. The idea is that if you give
a computer enough examples of what solar panels look like from the sky and
compare them to similar photos where there are no solar panels, the computer
can teach itself to distinguish between the two.

According to Malof, it’s almost like developing a synthetic visual cortex—the
part of the brain that processes visual information through several
consecutive layers of neurons. In a deep learning project, the trick is to
pick how many layers to incorporate and how many connections to put between
individual “neurons,” among other factors.

The whole process involves turning different knobs and trying different
settings to try to optimize the results. With a dataset of 20,000 individual
annotated solar panels and 100,000 image chips covering 1.5 billion pixels of
satellite imagery from the U.S. Geological Survey, Malof is starting to get
dialed in.

“The simple statement is that it’s working pretty well,” said Malof. “We can
catch about 80 percent of the solar panels that are there with only three
false positives per square kilometer.”

As the research group continues to make improvements, they plan to expand
their efforts beyond solar arrays.

“We’re starting to look into more general estimates of energy consumption,”
said Bradbury. “We want to see if we can use the volume of buildings,
estimated from aerial photography, to approximate energy consumption in a
given area. Not only would these techniques provide important information for
smart grid infrastructure planning in the U.S., they could be valuable tools
for international development in any country undergoing the process of energy
infrastructure planning.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

