

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# New Tool Tells Bioengineers When to Build Microbial Teams

February 21, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

Researchers help bioengineers decide when to use multiple cell populations to
assemble a product

Researchers at Duke University have created a framework for helping
bioengineers determine when to use multiple lines of cells to manufacture a
product. The work could help a variety of industries that use bacteria to
produce chemicals ranging from pharmaceuticals to fragrances.

The research was published online the week of February 19, 2018 in the
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.

Every cell in the world is constantly absorbing nutrients and raw materials
and transforming them into something more useful. Often the process provides
the cells with energy or some other vital vitamin or mineral, while leaving
behind byproducts that can be beneficial for other cells. This is especially
true in complex multicellular organisms and ecosystems, where several
different types or species of cells can work together to generate a single
complex final product.

Scientists have been harnessing these abilities since the 1970s to produce
useful substances like human growth hormone, pharmaceuticals, fragrances and
biofuels. Most of the time they rely on a single type of cell for such
endeavors for the sake of simplicity. But sometimes the process becomes too
complicated.

"Typically when people are modifying cells to produce something they use a
single population, but when you only use one type of cell to do everything,
there's an upper limit on what it can handle, which becomes a limitation to
how sophisticated a compound you can ask the cell to make," said Ryan Tsoi, a
graduate student studying biomedical engineering at Duke and first author of
the paper. "Having multiple cell types dividing the labor has been explored,
but only on a case-by-case basis. This is the first systematic look into what
circumstances make multiple cell lines better than one."

In the study, Tsoi and his advisor, Lingchong You, the Paul Ruffin Scarborough
Associate Professor of Engineering at Duke, put together a system of equations
to model how important variables interact in these types of systems. For
example, they can model the strain that complex tasks put on a single cell's
growth rate or the inefficiencies introduced when cells must pass signals,
enzymes and proteins back and forth in a division-of-labor scheme.

They put together more than 20 different variations of how these systems could
be built and how they might interact. When they ran the simulations, they
discovered that every trial boiled down to how the variables affected two
factors -- how fast the cells are able to grow and how much efficiency is lost
when two types of cells share resources while transporting molecules between
them.

"It's comparable to when researchers are working together on a grant proposal
or a paper," said You. "It's a balance between how easy it is to do by
yourself, how efficient it will be in working with other collaborators, and
how big of a payoff the collaboration will be at the end of the day."

Moving forward, Tsoi plans on using the new framework to develop the new
bioengineered systems he is planning to study. He hopes others will do the
same.

"All of these parameters are measurable and quantifiable," said Tsoi. "The
idea is that for any system, you could obtain all of these parameters either
through basic experiments or textbooks, throw them into this mathematical
model, and not only obtain a basic answer of whether or not to use division of
labor, but a measure of how much it would benefit your project."

This research was supported by the US Army Research Office (W911NF-14-1-0490),
the National Science Foundation (CBET-0953202) and the National Institutes of
Health (1R01-GM098642).

CITATION: "Metabolic Division Of Labor In Microbial Systems," Ryan Tsoi,
Feilun Wu, Carolyn Zhang, Sharon Bewick, David Karig and Lingchong You.
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, Feb. 20, 2018. DOI:
10.1073/pnas.1716888115  
pnas.org/content/115/10/2526

# # #

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

