

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# DNA-Based Nanobots Earn Duke MEMS Its Fifth DMREF Award for Materials
Science

September 9, 2019

Collaborative work on “Designing Materials that Revolutionize and Engineer our
Future” now totals more than $7.5 million

Sharing in a new $1.75 million award to develop nanoscopic robotic devices
made entirely of DNA, Duke Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science (MEMS)
faculty member Gaurav Arya has nabbed the department’s fifth “Designing
Materials to Revolutionize and Engineer our Future” grant—among the most
competitive in the field of materials science.

Including Arya’s recent award, Duke MEMS faculty has worked on projects
totaling more than $7.5 million in DMREF funding in recent years.

> Including Arya’s recent award, Duke MEMS faculty has worked on projects
> totaling more than $7.5 million in DMREF funding in recent years.

Administered by the National Science Foundation, the DMREF awards spur
participation in the Materials Genome Initiative for Global Competitiveness,
or MGI. Advanced materials discovery and development has massive potential to
benefit society through applications in health, energy, advanced computing,
sustainability, and beyond, and MGI seeks to bolster shared computational
frameworks for materials science to improve coordination research efforts
across the country. This emphasis on collaboration and communication means
that DMREF award winners must demonstrate both an integrated team approach to
projects and a commitment to making digital data accessible to the broader
research community.

For Arya, this means working as part of a team to develop tiny robotic devices
that can sense their microenvironment—stresses within cells, for example—and
assemble the devices into larger systems capable of transmitting sensed
signals or driving macroscopic collective behaviors. Arya’s specific role in
the project, given his expertise in physics-based computational tools, is to
develop multi-scale models of the devices that will facilitate design, predict
individual and collective behaviors, and guide and interpret experimental
measurements; $481,250 is earmarked for his endeavor. Researchers at Ohio
State University will collaborate with Arya on the project.

Eight MEMS-affiliated faculty at Duke have worked on five other DMREF projects
in recent years, with another soon to begin:

  * HybriD3: Discovery, Design, Dissemination of Organic-Inorganic Hybrid
    Semiconductor Materials for Optoelectronic Applications – Volker Blum and
    David Mitzi, Duke, with collaborators at North Carolina State University
    and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill ($662,500 of $1.5
    million total; a $100,000 supplement was awarded to Duke, in collaboration
    with the MiCCOM center at the University of Chicago)
  * A Data-Centric Approach for Accelerating the Design of Future
    Nanostructured Polymers and Composites Systems – Cate Brinson, Duke, with
    collaborators at RPI and Northwestern University ($809,379 of $1.6 million
    total)
  * High Throughput Exploration of Sequence Space of Peptide Polymers that
    Exhibit Aqueous Demixing Phase Behavior – Ashutosh Chilkoti and Stefan
    Zauscher, Duke, with collaborators at Washington University ($1.2 million
    of 1.4 million total)
  * High-Throughput Simulations and Experiments to Develop Metallic Glasses –
    Stefano Curtarolo and W. Neal Simmons, Duke, with collaborators at Yale
    and Harvard University ($400,000 of $1.2 million total)

Research scientist Cormac Toher, a member of Curtarolo’s group, has won a
share of an upcoming $1.75 million DMREF project seeking to accelerate the
discovery of high-entropy silicates for extreme environments, which is slated
to begin in October 2019. His three collaborators on the project come from the
University of Virginia.

Finally, professor of MEMS and biomedical engineering Michael Rubinstein
recently wrapped up a DMREF project on acoustically transformative materials
that began in 2014, when he was among the faculty at UNC.

Under the auspices of these DMREF awards, researchers are creating new hybrid
materials for light-emitting diodes, speeding the discovery and development of
new materials through searchable databases, and exploring how soft materials
might be engineered to change shape in response to environmental stimuli like
light and heat.

> “The holy grail in materials science has long been to be able to understand
> and predict all physical properties of a material based on composition and
> processing.”
>
> -Cate Brinson, Chair, Mechnical Engineering and Materials Science

“The holy grail in materials science has long been to be able to understand
and predict all physical properties of a material based on composition and
processing,” said Cate Brinson, chair of the Department of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science at Duke. “Each of these DMREF projects at
Duke employs design principles, computational models, data methods,
experimentation and collaborative closed-loop science towards the design of
new materials in five important areas of materials science with far-reaching
applications.”

The exciting new projects have also been successful in drawing in talented
students who wish to gain practical lab experience while working on the
frontiers of materials science. Many students from Duke Engineering and
beyond—including NC A&T, Purdue, and Carnegie Mellon Universities—have worked
on these NSF-funded projects during summer Research Experiences for
Undergraduates, or REUs. The Duke Energy Initiative and Office of
Undergraduate Research Support Office together funded another student’s work
to create a publicly available database of hybrid organic-inorganic materials
and their properties—work that led to a $100,000 award supplement for the
project.

And, recently, a graduate student completed his DMREF project-centered
master’s thesis and will continue his study of biomaterials within a PhD
program at a collaborating university—yet another way in which the research
efforts are branching out to bear fruit.

More Research News

## Related News

February 13, 2019

### Liberating Data to Discover New Polymer Nanocomposites and Metamaterials

September 07, 2017

### Pushing Science and Engineering to Create New Soft Materials

May 16, 2017

### Oddball Enzyme Provides Easy Path to Synthetic Biomaterials

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

