

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Engineering’s FinTech Program Sends Certificates to Coursera Students
as NFTs

January 13, 2022

Those who completed a sequence of courses on blockchain received certificates
of completion in an appropriate form—as unique digital tokens

Students who completed a sequence of Duke Engineering courses on the
fundamentals of blockchain technology through online learning partner Coursera
have received their certificates of completion via a technologically
appropriate format – as NFTs, or non-fungible tokens.

“Duke is among the first institutions to provide educational credentials as
NFTs,” said Jimmie Lenz, director of FinTech learning programs at Duke
Engineering. “We thought it was a great way to celebrate the work of these
students in completing the online Coursera certificate.”

In a little more than a dozen years, the secure peer-to-peer network concept
called blockchain has gone from experimental idea to a driver of innovation
and disruptive change in financial markets, banking, and securities.
Blockchain powers the concepts of digital currency and NFTs – lines of
computer code that can be traded as a store of value.

> In a little more than a dozen years, the secure peer-to-peer network concept
> called blockchain has gone from experimental idea to a driver of innovation
> and disruptive change

Duke Engineering’s FinTech program, part of the school’s Institute of
Enterprise Engineering, supports several educational programs, including the
three-course sequence available through Coursera, short courses for working
professionals, and a Master of Engineering in Financial Technology degree. In
2021, it launched DAREC, the Digital Asset Research & Engineering
Collaborative—a research effort into digital assets that includes a publicly-
available repository of commentary on the topic by Duke experts in
engineering, economics, and public policy.

Lenz’s sequence of three courses builds on his deep experience as a financial
professional and on Duke Engineering’s expertise in advanced computing
technologies. Students in the program on the Coursera platform gain knowledge
of blockchain’s history and capabilities, before applying the learnings to the
creation of virtual wallets, smart contracts, and ERC-20 tokens. Students also
explore cryptocurrency concepts.

The NFTs, which are custom digital images of a diploma-style certificate of
completion, were developed by Paymagic. The fintech company builds payment and
rewards tools for the crypto-economy—and was founded by Duke Engineering
graduate Corbin Page '10 and fellow Duke alumnus David Eiber '14.

The NFT certificates were “minted” and distributed via the blockchain, through
the Polygon network, to the 22 students who completed the most recent Coursera
session, Lenz said.

Additional NFT certificates of completion are being created for students who
completed Duke Engineering’s blockchain course sequence in earlier sessions.

More about fintech education at Duke Engineering:

  * Blockchain Applications Certificate on Coursera
  * FinTech Master of Engineering Program

## Related News

August 18, 2021 | Innovation@Duke

### Alum Pilots Virtual Accelerator with Duke Summer Blockchain Innovation
Program

August 16, 2021 | Duke Today

### These Days, Blockchain is Everywhere at Duke

February 12, 2020

### Duke Engineering Is Running Blockchain

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

