

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Engineers Adapt Rapid Testing Platform to See If It Can Catch COVID-19

April 27, 2020

Biomedical engineers adapt simple, low-cost platform to diagnose the new
coronavirus

Biomedical engineers at Duke University are adapting a rapid testing platform
originally designed to detect Ebola to see whether it could be of use in
detecting antigens to SARS-Cov-2, the virus that causes COVID-19. The National
Science Foundation has awarded them a Rapid Response Research grant to adapt
the fast,simple and low-cost diagnostic tool. Inkjet-printed on a small glass
slide, the D4 assay is a self-contained diagnostic test that detects low
levels of antigens--the specific protein markers created by exposure to a
pathogen -- from a single drop of blood or from a throat- or nose-swab sample.

In previous studies, the experimental test has been shown to detect a variety
of antigens and other biomarkers as accurately as the most sensitive
diagnostic tests on the market, but at a much faster rate, potentially
shortening the wait time for coronavirus testing from days or hours down to
just 30 minutes, according to principal investigator Ashutosh Chilkoti, the
Alan L. Kaganov Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering at Duke
University.

“We’ve shown a proof-of-concept by detecting a biomarker of the SARS-Cov-2
virus (which causes COVID-19), and the next step would be to validate this
with patient samples,” Chilkoti said. “Our test is designed to be truly point-
of-care, and this pandemic is clearly a scenario when a portable, fast and
cost-effective diagnostic would be most useful.”

The D4 assay tool has two types of antibodies printed on its surface:
detection antibodies tagged with a fluorescent marker and capture antibodies,
which are primed to find the antigens specific to a pathogen. When a sample is
placed on the slide, the detection antibodies separate from the array and bind
to the target antigen proteins in the sample. These antibody-antigen complexes
then attach to the capture antibodies on the slide, which fluoresce in
response to the connection. A handheld scanner is then used to look for lights
indicating the presence of the antigen. Unlike other antigen diagnostic tests,
the D4 assay is printed on a polymer brush coating, which prevents non-target
proteins from attaching to the slide’s surface. This removes any ‘background
noise’ on the chip, making it easier to detect low levels of the target
proteins.

Chilkoti said that it is difficult to predict when a clinically available test
might be available, as that requires FDA approval, but they hope to start
testing the technology with COVID patient samples in the next few months.

In preliminary studies with other viruses, including Ebola, the D4 assay has
proven about 200- to 500 times better at flagging infected people than other
diagnostic tests, according to Duke Engineering doctoral student Cassio
Fontes, who helped develop the platform.

The lab has not yet worked with the live SARS-Cov-2 virus that causes
COVID-19, but rather with synthetic versions of the proteins it expresses.

“In preliminary tests in early March, we showed that the existing antibodies
developed for SARS, another coronavirus that was identified in 2003, could
effectively detect and capture synthetic versions of the COVID-19 proteins,”
said Fontes. “The connection isn’t perfect, but the D4 is so sensitive that it
compensates for the less-than-ideal antibody match and we’re able to get
promising results.”

With the $119,000 RAPID grant from NSF (2029361) the team will further
optimize and validate their platform with the goal of testing in patients in
the next few months in collaboration with Chris Woods, a clinical investigator
and Professor of Global Health and Medicine and Chief of the Infectious
Diseases Division at the VA Medical Center.

“Challenging times also create opportunities,” Chilkoti said. “Given that this
is a huge societal and public health challenge, those of us who create new
technologies have a responsibility to act, and we’re grateful that the support
from the National Science Foundation allows us address this challenge head-
on.”

## Related News

April 30, 2020

### COVID-19 Engineering Response Team Assembles from Every Corner of Duke

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

