

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Engineering Announces New Minor in Machine Learning & Artificial
Intelligence

October 1, 2020

To help meet the growing demand for professionals trained machine learning and
AI theory and practice, Duke Engineering is now offering a Minor in Machine
Learning & Artificial Intelligence to undergraduates across the university

To help meet the growing demand for professionals trained machine learning and
AI theory and practice, Duke Engineering is now offering a Minor in Machine
Learning & Artificial Intelligence to undergraduates across the university.

When we think about machine learning or artificial intelligence, the first
thing that probably comes to mind is self-directed robots and self-driving
cars. But many other fields rely on the smart manipulation of huge amounts of
data—including medical pathology, communications, materials design and
numerous others.

“Employers want to develop better solutions to the problems that they already
care about and they want to do it more efficiently,” said Duke professor of
electrical and computer engineering Henry Pfister, who chaired the ECE faculty
committee that led the development process. “Machine learning can sometimes
help with both of these goals.”

Proving this demand in the job market, the career site Indeed listed “machine
learning engineer” at the top of its “Best Jobs in the US: 2019” list, noting
a 344% growth in the number of jobs posted on the site from 2014-2018, and an
average salary of around $146,000.

From the steady student demand for machine learning classes, the appearance of
several new student machine learning clubs across the university and the
demonstrated success of the existing concentration available to ECE majors and
the 4+1 MS program open to all undergraduates, Duke students are aware of the
opportunities and rewards in this area as well.

Non-engineers who have the prerequisite courses in programming, linear algebra
and introductory statistics will be able to complete the Minor in Machine
Learning & Artificial Intelligence, complementing the focus of their primary
major while gaining a valuable credential. Of the five technical courses
required for the minor, three are fundamental to the discipline: Intermediate
Statistics and Probability, Introductory Machine Learning and Artificial
Intelligence, and Intermediate Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence.
Two additional upper-level courses provide greater depth of study.

There is some flexibility in selecting these courses, which allows students to
tailor their course of study to their specific interests, said Lisa Huettel,
Duke ECE’s director of undergraduate studies, and member of the faculty
planning group. “One of the hallmarks of a Duke Engineering education is that
students are able to customize their education based on their unique
interests,” said Huettel. “The new minor will be a valuable tool that students
from any discipline can use to chart their own professional course.”

> “The new minor will be a valuable tool that students from any discipline can
> use to chart their own professional course.”
>
> Lisa HUettel, DIrector of ECE Undergraduate studies

The list of approved electives include courses like Image and Video
Processing, Computer Vision and Natural Language Processing.

“Some background in ML will be useful across a wide variety of disciplines,”
said Pfister, who cited natural language processing as a prime example. “I
first learned to find books in the library by searching the card catalog. Now,
because of the way computer databases have revolutionized the storage and
search of data, I can find and reserve a library book online. But I still
can’t say, ‘Find me a book about rowing where the main character is teenaged
girl living in Idaho.’ Recent advances in natural language processing are
likely to change that. In fact, any field that could benefit from more
intelligent automated searching of texts will likely benefit from machine
learning.”

The list of approved electives include courses like Image and Video
Processing, Computer Vision and Natural Language Processing.

“Some background in ML will be useful across a wide variety of disciplines,”
said Pfister, who cited natural language processing as a prime example. “I
first learned to find books in the library by searching the card catalog. Now,
because of the way computer databases have revolutionized the storage and
search of data, I can find and reserve a library book online. But I still
can’t say, ‘Find me a book about rowing where the main character is teenaged
girl living in Idaho.’ Recent advances in natural language processing are
likely to change that. In fact, any field that could benefit from more
intelligent automated searching of texts will likely benefit from machine
learning.”

Learn more

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

