

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke to Host First-of-its-Kind Digital Assets Conference, Jan. 20-21

January 17, 2023

Avoiding the sales pitches and bluster of other conferences in the field,
Digital Assets at Duke brings together key stakeholders for serious discussion

On January 20 and 21, 2023, a host of industry players, experts, policymakers
and researchers will gather at Duke University for a first-of-its-kind
conference focused on digital assets.

For two days, attendees will engage in rigorous debate, discussion and
education, facilitating interdisciplinary dialogue and collaboration in an
academic setting.

Dubbed “Digital Assets at Duke,” or DA@D for short, the event seeks to look
past the hype cycle and price fixation that accompanies many digital asset
events and instead focus on the development, delivery and regulation of the
next-generation digital asset environment.

The DA@D conference, hosted by Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering and its
Financial Economics Center, features speakers and panels, as well as
highlighted academic papers, in the field of digital assets. Speakers include:

  * U.S. Securities & Exchange Commissioner Hester Peirce
  * U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission Commissioner Kristin Johnson
  * John Rolle, chairman of the Central Bank of the Bahamas

Speakers and participants will explore new frontiers of digital asset
development, investment and regulation. Topics covered will include: NFTs,
cryptocurrency, DeFi, stablecoins, central bank digital currency and more. The
conference will provide ample opportunities to converse, network and exchange
ideas with peers, colleagues, experts and leaders in the digital assets
ecosystem.

## Q&A with Duke FinTech's Jimmie Lenz

We sat down with Jimmie Lenz, director of Duke’s Master of Engineering in
FinTech program and organizer of the conference, for a Q&A about what to
expect.

What was your inspiration for this conference?

Very few issues are as top of mind with regulators, industry participants and
politicians as digital assets. The number of questions about these assets and
the lack of understanding is what drove us as an academic institution to
address this issue by bringing together the various constituents, along with
academics working in this area, to provide an objective venue to host the
right discussions.

As scholars and practitioners in this field, we know there is a lot happening
behind the scenes in terms of digital asset adoption that is not generating
headlines. Our goal for DA@D is to bring together the people and the companies
that are building for the long term and look past current news headlines to
try and understand where the industry will be in five or 10 years down the
road.

What makes this conference different?

Most conferences in the digital asset space are oriented toward sales or
support of certain assets. We are seeking to create an environment that can
host discussions without the influence of sales pressures. In other words,
more of a Bretton Woods than a Bitcoin Miami environment.

As an academic institution, we can provide a neutral forum for serious and
rigorous conversation around digital assets. We are avoiding the hype and
hoopla that accompanies other conferences on crypto and digital assets.

Who are some of the biggest speakers, and why are their views and opinions so
important?

We have a phenomenal group of speakers who are all at the forefront of the
digital asset industry or its regulation. Regulation is critical to the future
of the digital asset industry, and we are fortunate to have speakers from the
two federal regulatory agencies that are spearheading these efforts. SEC
Commissioner Hester Peirce has been a vocal critic of the SEC’s approach to
cryptocurrencies, and she will be delivering the Friday evening keynote
address. We will also have CFTC Commissioner Kristin Johnson address the
challenges in regulating digital assets. We’re also excited to hear from John
Rolle, the chairman of the Central Bank of the Bahamas, on his country’s
rollout of a central bank digital currency. And we have a number of speakers
from the digital asset industry, venture capital firms investing in the space
and developers of digital asset products, including several Duke graduates!

What do you think attendees will take away from this conference?

First and foremost, attendees will come away with additional understanding and
new considerations. Specifically, we expect participants to gain a better
understanding of the digital asset use cases and business models that are
likely to generate long-term value. We also anticipate attendees will develop
important relationships with those that may be “across the table” in business
and regulatory discussions. And maybe, just maybe, attendees will come away
with some concrete actions.

What do you hope this conference will become in the future?

I hope that this year’s attendees, and future participants, will see this as
an event at which all sides can be heard in the discussions of digital assets.
There is no doubt that this asset class will change and mature. This will be a
venue where these changes can be discussed, and that will provide academic
researchers interested in the field an opportunity to meet with the
participants—something that rarely occurs.

Register to Attend

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

