

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Electric Vehicles Team Hits Hollywood

December 14, 2015 | By Ken Kingery

How a Duke Engineering student group became the stars of a nationally aired TV
ad

During the 2015 Shell Eco-marathon, the Duke Electric Vehicles (DEV) team had
quite a showing. Not only did they take 2nd place in their category, their
carefully catalogued research into the optimal thickness of their car’s
carbon-fiber body won them the Technical Innovation Award. The accomplishment
helped Duke be considered as a front-runner for Shell’s Make the Future
corporate campaign.

In October 2015, the DEV team was contacted by Shell to gauge the team’s
interest in participating in a commercial, featuring Shell Eco-marathon. After
a Skype interview landed the gig, the team was flown to Los Angeles for a
whirlwind Hollywood experience during Fall Break.

“We came home and were like, ‘Oh my gosh, all of that happened so quickly!’”
said Alexandra Monroe, the DEV team’s communications specialist. “We needed to
look through the photos to see what we’d actually done.”

After taking apart, loading up and shipping out their competition car, five
members of the DEV team flew to the West Coast the night of Sunday, October
11. Their alarm clocks went off at 5:00 the next morning, and the time flew by
from there.

The day involved an hour’s drive to the set, a hair, makeup and wardrobe
session, several one-to-two-hour video shoots—one with Heroes Reborn star Greg
Grunberg—a couple of personal on-camera interviews, a short break for lunch,
another for cake in celebration of a birthday, and then it was back to the
hotel. And as an added bonus, Jay Leno was also on set, and footage featuring
the team appeared on an episode of Jay Leno’s Garage in early December.

“We didn’t get back until at least 8:00 that night, and we were spent,” said
Charlie Kritzmacher, a senior in mechanical engineering and materials science,
president of DEV and the reason for the day’s birthday cake. “We didn’t even
have the energy to celebrate. We just had dinner and went to bed.”

Their plane left for Durham early the next morning. And exactly one month
later, the commercial aired during an episode of NBC’s Heroes Reborn and a
more in-depth video was posted online.

The shoot took an entire day. The in-depth video was 124 seconds long. The
commercial, just 30.

“The attention to detail is just absolutely insane,” said Kritzmacher.
“Someone would say this window is too dirty and magically two people would
appear with every kind of window-washing piece of equipment that you could
possibly need.”

The DEV team hopes to take some of that attention to detail and apply it to
their new entry for the 2016 Shell Eco-marathon, which takes place in in
Detroit, Michigan on April 22-24, 2016.

In the past, the DEV team has always competed in the prototype battery-powered
vehicle category, trying to get the best ratio of miles per kilowatts of
energy used. This year, the team will be entering the urban concept side of
the competition.

Rather than an awkward, bullet-shaped prototype car, the team will be building
something much more like a commercial vehicle, with headlights, taillights, a
trunk, steering wheel, and other standard features.

“The prototype design is a really cool project, whereas the urban concept
design is more like a really cool car that you might see on the road someday,”
explained Kritzmacher. “The goal is to bridge between the theory of the
prototype and the practicality of real life, and to help inspire change.”

The urban concept competition will be a lot more work for the team. They’re
already working on their first prototype, but they could still use help.

The DEV team is always open to new members joining their ranks. To help
potential members get involved, Kritzmacher has created a series of lessons
that live online on a Sakai page so that those interested can either catch up
or get ahead in learning about the processes involved.

You don’t even need to be an engineer to get involved.

“People are often anxious because they feel they can’t join a team that builds
cars because they don’t know anything about it,” said Monroe, who is herself a
graduate student in liberal studies. “But Charlie has created a ton of
educational resources that can help just about anybody learn at their own pace
and feel confident that they can contribute.”

“Because it’s a very practical, real-world project as opposed to early
engineering classes that are more theoretical, the engineering kids don’t
really know that much more than the non-engineering kids, at least to start,”
said Kritzmacher. “We always encourage people who aren’t in Pratt to try it
because they can catch up very quickly. It’s a great space to get involved
with something that might be outside your comfort zone.”

  
The DEV team sets waits for lighting to be set during a shoot. Photo by
Alexandra Monroe.  
  

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

