

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Students Break Guinness World Record for Fuel Efficiency

August 7, 2018 | Miranda Volborth

_Guinness World Records confirms Duke Electric Vehicles has unseated Swiss
team for new record_

Duke Engineering is now the official home of the most fuel-efficient vehicle
in history, a hydrogen fuel cell car that gets the equivalent of 14,573 miles
per gallon. Duke Electric Vehicles (DEV’s) record-breaking run took place on
Saturday, July 21 at Galot Motorsports in Benson, North Carolina. Guinness
World Records has confirmed that the attempt to set a new record for fuel
efficiency was successful. DEV bested the old record set by ETH Zurich, which
stood for 13 years.

Engineers from NC State University and North Carolina A&T State University
judged the attempt, measuring total hydrogen consumption, total distance
traveled, and total time of the run, and ensuring the car traveled at a
minimum average speed of 15 mph. The efficiency score was computed based on
total distance traveled divided by total hydrogen consumption.

To set the new world record, the car traveled eight and a half miles of track
and used less than one gram of pure hydrogen.

“To put that in perspective,” said outgoing DEV president and electrical
engineering graduate Patrick Grady, “our vehicle is capable of driving to any
point on the globe using the energy in one gallon of gas.”

> Our vehicle is capable of driving to any point on the globe using the energy
> in one gallon of gas.
>
> Patrick Grady ECE '18

The prototype car—named “Maxwell” after James C. Maxwell’s equations
describing electromagnetism—placed first in the hydrogen category at the Shell
Eco-marathon Americas in Sonoma, California in April of this year. The car’s
bank of supercapacitors provided the driver with short bursts of energy when
she needed to climb or accelerate; to charge the supercapacitors, the team
deployed a fuel cell much smaller and lighter—and with narrower margins for
error—than that of the competition. The novel design earned DEV a Technical
Innovation Award in addition to a win.

DEV is part of an energy community cultivated by the Energy Initiative, one of
Duke’s interdisciplinary initiatives focused on bringing knowledge to the
service of society. The club publicly shares its designs so anyone interested
in designing and fabricating high-efficiency vehicles can benefit from its
research.

“This world record is a perfect example of how our ‘outrageously ambitious’
educational and research activities in Duke Engineering lead to remarkable and
tangible results in the field of sustainable energy,” said assistant professor
of the practice of mechanical engineering Nico Hotz, who advises the team. “By
creating a collaborative and open environment and community, we enable our
students to reach groundbreaking results: DEV’s new fuel cell vehicle was
designed, built and optimized entirely by the students themselves.”

According to mechanical engineering student and incoming DEV Co-president
Shomik Verma ‘19, the team already has its sights set on breaking another
record. “Building off the success of our hydrogen fuel cell vehicle, we are
hoping to beat the battery electric vehicle record next year,” said Verma.
“Our electric efficiency is within five percent of the record based on our
data from the recent attempt, so with improvements to the aerodynamics of the
body and reduction in weight, we should be viable competitors for the record.”

DEV’s major funders in 2017-2018 included the Lord Foundation, GM Foundation,
and NC Space Grant as well as the Duke Engineering Annual Fund.

Read About DEV’s 2018 Shell Eco-Marathon Americas Win

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

