

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke’s StartupConnect Attracts Startups, Hundreds of Attendees

February 21, 2014 | By Nancy Knowles/Duke Innnovation & Entrepreneurship
Initiative

Pratt School of Engineering co-sponsors event that showcases entrepreneurial
opportunities

Aspiring Duke entrepreneurs met with more than 20 startup employers during the
inaugural StartupConnect event Thursday at Gross Hall. The event, which was
open to Duke students, faculty, staff, alumni and parents, as well as invited
guests from UNC, provided students with an understanding of the
characteristics employers seek, as well as a realistic view of the job market
and possible career paths.

StartupConnect began with a panel discussion featuring Duke alumni advising
students seeking internships and full-time jobs in startups. Panelists
included Damien Hoffman, founder and CEO of Wall St. Cheat Sheet, and Peter
Fishman, Yammer's director of analytics.

Students also networked with representatives from startup companies such as
SquadUP, RocketBolt, Dream Big Studios, Qnary, Organic Transit and American
Underground, a nationally acclaimed startup hub in Durham and Raleigh.

"StartupConnect was a great opportunity for me because it exposed me to the
vast network of Duke alumni who have involved themselves in entrepreneurial
career paths," said Duke junior Veer Gangwal.

More than 400 students and invited guests attended the event, which was
launched by students as a way to bring startup employers to Duke's campus and
to showcase entrepreneurial opportunities that are not typically presented
during traditional career fairs.

"When I attended Duke's career fair in the fall, I noticed how few startup
companies were represented among the employers," said Janvi Shah, student
event manager for StartupConnect. "There wasn't a convenient way for students
to find job opportunities at startups unless they actively sought out the Duke
alumni network or entrepreneurship programs."

The program was organized based on more than 600 responses to a survey
conducted this past fall.

"We created StartupConnect to lower this barrier by enabling students to
engage directly with startup employers. It's great to see so many students
excited about this event and strengthening the entrepreneurial culture at
Duke," Shah said.

StartupConnect was hosted by the Duke Innovation and Entrepreneurship
Initiative, Pratt School of Engineering, Department of Computer Science,
Career Center, UNC Minor in Entrepreneurship, Duke Start-Up Challenge and Duke
in Silicon Valley, which brings students and employers together for networking
and education.

For more information about StartupConnect, email startupconnect@duke.edu.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

