

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke's Materials Science Sparks a Brighter Energy Future

April 4, 2016

In the quest for a more sustainable energy future, many Duke scientists are
turning to materials science because of its potential to solve long-standing
problems and open up new possibilities.

Originally posted by the Duke Energy Initiative

Energy provides humanity with immeasurable benefits and promise, allowing
people all over the world to maintain or improve their standard of living and
build healthier and happier communities.

Yet the production and use of energy also introduces a number of emerging
threats, including climate change, air pollution, volatile international
relations and economic vulnerability to price fluctuations.

All over the Duke campus, faculty, research staff and students are exploring
new ideas and developing new technologies to make environmentally friendly
energy sources more viable and to improve the efficiency of our existing
energy system. Much of this work is supported by the Energy Initiative through
its Energy Research Seed Fund and its role in catalyzing interdisciplinary
collaboration.

In the quest for a more sustainable energy future, many Duke scientists are
turning to materials science because of its potential to solve long-standing
problems and open up new possibilities.

"Materials are critical for the success of any form of energy generation,
transport or storage," according to David Mitzi, a professor in the department
of mechanical engineering and materials science and a coordinator of Duke's
energy materials research community.

The Duke faculty that the Energy Initiative helps bring together and support
have attracted attention from the National Science Foundation (NSF), the
Department of Energy (DOE), ARPA-E (the DOE's Advanced Research Projects
Agency-Energy) and others in the form of $11 million in grants over the past
fiscal year.

Mitzi's lab focuses on electricity generation powered by the sun. In a project
funded by a $300,000 NSF grant, he and his students, in collaboration with
Prof. Volker Blum's group (also in the department of materials science and
engineering), are seeking to improve thin-film photovoltaic (PV) technology,
which targets cheaper production approaches and more diverse applications than
can readily be achieved with rigid, silicon-based PV panels.

Currently available thin-film PVs rely on minerals that are toxic, rare or
concentrated in only a few countries. PV devices can be made with inexpensive
and abundant copper, zinc, tin and sulfur, but the performance isn't as good.
"Our research is focused on trying to understand why and trying to engineer a
materials solution around the problem," he says.

In another project, funded by DOE, Mitzi is working to improve a rapidly
evolving technology called perovskite solar cells, which offers the potential
of higher performance, more flexible applications and lower production costs
than traditional silicon-based solar cells. "They can be processed from a
solution, so you can envision painting these materials on a substrate," he
says. "If one wants to come up with a truly low-cost solution to solar energy,
this approach is very exciting."

Adrienne Stiff-Roberts, an associate professor of electrical and computer
engineering, is also using materials science to improve PV technology. She and
her students have developed a technique to deposit both organic and inorganic
molecules together to create a material that would have a wide array of
properties. This opens up new possibilities for creating a much more efficient
solar cell. "We can start exploring what is the ideal structure," she says,
"and not be limited by what kinds of materials we can put together."

But even the most efficient solar cell can't produce electricity when the sun
isn't shining. Several researchers at Duke are working on the "intermittency
problem," which will have to be tackled if solar and wind power are to become
a bigger part of the energy solution.

Nico Hotz, an assistant professor of mechanical engineering and materials
science, is designing a system that uses heat from the sun to produce hydrogen
fuel. The system converts methanol and water into hydrogen in the presence of
heat and chemical catalysts made of nanoparticles of copper oxide, aluminum
oxide and zinc oxide.

Homes and businesses with roof-top thermal panels could produce and store
hydrogen fuel onsite—essentially functioning as their own mini power plants.

As a fuel, hydrogen is efficient, quiet, and clean -- water vapor is the only
emission. The challenge for wider use is that it takes a lot of energy to
produce it. The conventional method of converting a hydrocarbon fuel into
hydrogen consumes about half of the fuel simply to provide the heat needed for
the chemical reactions.

In Hotz's system, the sun provides the heat for free and relatively little of
it is lost to inefficiencies during the process. "What we do is upgrade a low-
quality fuel to a high-quality fuel, and that upgrade we do with sunlight," he
says.

With seed money from the Energy Initiative, Hotz is trying to improve the
system by using a process that would require only the nanoparticle catalysts
to be heated, not the entire device. This would make the whole process even
more efficient. Of the seed funding, he says, "That's extremely useful for us
because it's a small but decent amount of money that helps to start new
projects."

Other Duke researchers are investigating a different kind of "solar fuel" --
organic matter created by plants and algae that use energy from the sun to
make bioenergy. Because photosynthesis removes carbon from the atmosphere,
using plants as a raw material for energy could help mitigate global warming.

Zackary Johnson, an assistant professor of molecular biology in marine science
at the Duke Marine Lab in Beaufort, is heading up a multi-institution team
that received $5.2 million from DOE to design and demonstrate a large-scale
system to make fuel using marine algae. "We're tying to develop an energy
source that we can produce domestically and that will be an environmentally
friendly solution," Johnson says.

Just as we do, algae store energy as fats, which can be refined into a liquid
fuel. Producing fuel in this way is environmentally friendly, but not
currently cost-competitive with fossil fuels.

Johnson and his collaborators are trying to change that by creating a system
that produces more than one product. The idea is to extract protein from the
algae and sell it as animal feed to help offset the cost of producing fuel.

In addition to demonstrating the system on a large scale, the collaborators
will analyze the economics and the environmental impacts. "It's got to make
money and be good for the environment," Johnson says.

Duke is a natural leader for this project, which includes partners from other
universities as well as industry. "We want to play a leadership role in making
this happen," Johnson says. "We have the administrative and university vision.
Part of that is the Energy Initiative, part is the Nicholas School -- there's
a lot of support, both moral and logistical, to get this together."

On the transport and storage front, Jeff Glass, professor of electrical and
computer engineering, is heading up a multi-institution, multimillion-dollar
project that seeks to reduce methane leaks at oil wellheads. Methane is a
powerful greenhouse gas, so these leaks are not only wasteful, but also
contribute to global warming.

With almost $3 million from ARPA-E, Glass's team is developing a field
prototype of an instrument that can detect methane leaks. The instrument is a
miniaturized mass spectrometer, portable via backpack, that is capable of
detecting not only methane but also many other molecules as well.

Identifying other molecules will help determine the source of the methane,
whether from a leak or a nearby natural source. The instrument's small size is
made possible by coded apertures, which are a series of small slits that let
in many molecules at once. The results can then be decoded using computational
techniques.

"The mass spectrometer has been around for a century, but no one's ever
implemented coded apertures in that type of instrument," Glass says. "It's
been a fantastic role for Duke to be the first to try coded apertures and
computational sensing in mass spectrometers. The only reason we can do this is
because we have experts in computational sensing and experts in materials and
experts in instrument design."

RTI International in the Research Triangle Park is contributing its expertise
in commercialization of early stage technology to the team.

The work of these researchers represents only a fraction of the energy-related
research being done at Duke. Indeed, so many different avenues are being
pursued that it can be difficult to learn the full landscape of energy
research at Duke and identify potential collaborators. That is where the
Energy Initiative plays a key support role.

Nico Hotz says he might not be working with some of his colleagues now were it
not for the Energy Initiative. "The Energy Initiative is doing a good job in
connecting and bringing a lot of people together, and that has increased
energy research," he says, "and there are more people interested in doing
energy-related work because of seed funding."

The connections extend to students, too. "The Energy Initiative has provided a
forum where my students can present their work and interact with other
researchers to enhance their career development in the energy sector and help
them understand what's happening outside of Duke," Jeff Glass says.

Increasing awareness, spurring research and connecting people from multiple
disciplines and stages of learning—these are all ways that the Energy
Initiative is fueling energy research that has the potential to create a
future where everyone will have access to affordable, reliable and clean
energy.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

