

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke to Lead National Center for Virtual Imaging Trials

May 12, 2021

Ehsan Samei will direct the effort to create digital realizations of patients,
imaging technologies and interpretations

Professor of Radiology, Physics, Biomedical Engineering (BME), and Electrical
and Computer Engineering (ECE) Ehsan Samei has secured a major new five-year
grant from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to create the national
Center for Virtual Imaging Trials (CVIT) at Duke University. The new center
will create digital realizations of patients, imaging systems and image
interpretations within a comprehensive virtual platform to assess the clinical
performance of medical imaging technologies and applications.

"Virtual clinical trials provide a new paradigm to conduct experiments in
medicine," said Samei. "With an initial focus on CT imaging, the methodology
offers an alternative to clinical trials and their limitations and will have
far-reaching implications across the spectrum of imaging methods and medicine
at large.”

CVIT will be hosted in the Ravin Advanced Imaging Laboratories (RAI Labs) of
Duke Radiology and in addition to Samei, will be led by faculty members Paul
Segars, Joseph Lo, and Maciej Mazurowski, who also share secondary
appointments to Duke ECE. The new center joins a distinguished list of
National Centers for Biomedical Imaging & Bioengineering, which create
critical and unique technology and methods at forefront of their respective
fields for a broad range of research. In joining this network, CVIT will not
only develop a new way to conduct research in medicine but will also
efficiently share its methods through a consortium of industry, government and
academic collaborators.

More news from Duke ECE

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

