

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke to Offer Free Online Data-Analysis Courses Through Coursera

June 29, 2015 | By Jeni Baker

Launching this fall, “Specialization in Data Analytics for Business” will help
everyday professionals make the most of Big Data

Duke University will soon begin offering free online courses aimed at teaching
non-technical professionals to analyze and effectively utilize business data.

The courses are made possible through support from Coursera, an education-
platform company which partners with the world’s leading universities and
organizations to offer online courses that anyone can take at no charge.

The four-course “Specialization in Data Analytics for Business” is being
developed and will be led by Daniel Egger, Executive in Residence and Director
of the Center for Quantitative Modeling, and postdoctoral research associate
Jana Schaich Borg.

Using two popular software programs – Microsoft Excel and Tableau – learners
will learn to perform fairly sophisticated data-analysis functions during the
courses’ practical modules.

**Making information actionable: “This is the future”  
**Understanding and knowing how to effectively use information is vital to
success in today’s business world, the Duke team says.

“Anyone working in business these days has to understand the impact of Big
Data and data analytics,” Egger says. “This is the future, and organizations
that don’t respond to the opportunities and competition associated with data
analytics will go out of business.”

Many companies recognize that analyzing data and acting on the information
gleaned gives them a significant competitive advantage in an increasingly
data-heavy corporate landscape, says Schaich Borg.

“Data analytics isn’t just about figuring out what the data say, it’s also
about knowing which questions to ask and translating the answers into clear
action items that people can understand,” she says.

“Our goal is to empower learners to use data analytics to inform business
decisions – from asking questions and figuring out which data can provide
answers to extracting those answers and communicating the stories they tell.”

It’s about seeing the data related to your business and extracting practical
value from it, says Egger.

“Understanding what information means and what can be done with it can help
businesses do things like solve problems, be more operationally efficient,
retain customers better, market their services more strategically, hire and
manage employees more effectively, and generate more revenues from people who
visit their websites,” he says.

**Data analytics for non-techies: Accessible and user-friendly  
**To make the course content accessible (and less intimidating) to people with
a wide variety of knowledge and skill sets, Egger and Schaich Borg are
designing it to be easily mastered by learners with only a high-school-level
math proficiency and practical familiarity with the basic functions of
Microsoft Excel. Learners will not be required to perform or understand
computer coding.

“Because almost everybody in business already uses Excel, we probably increase
by tenfold the number of people who can take these courses,” says Egger. “The
content builds on Excel basics to get to the advanced data analytics you can
do with it – functions that most people don’t know it can do. And because
Excel is familiar to so many people, there’s a much faster learning curve.”

The first course, _Introduction to the Data Analytics “Business Ecosystem,”_
is scheduled to launch in September 2015. The course will give learners an
overview of data mining and data analytics, including types and models of data
analysis and key ways data can be used.

The second and third courses – _Using Data in a Business Context: Exploratory
Data Analysis and the Role of “Descriptive Analysis”_ and _Using Data in a
Business Context: Predictive Data Analysis and Communicating Analytic
Insights_ – are slated to launch in October and November 2015, respectively.

During these two courses, learners will learn to use Excel and Tableau to
perform a range of data-analysis functions.

The fourth course, _Managing Industrial-Size Data Sets_ , is scheduled for a
December 2015 launch. The course will examine the use of databases, “which is
where we go when we have so much data that we can’t work with it in Excel
anymore,” Egger says.

Although there is a fee for learners who take the four-course series for
certification, anyone with an Internet connection can take advantage of the
information at no charge. The materials will also be used in courses at Duke
with registered Duke students.

**Sharing Duke expertise  
**When it comes to offering Coursera courses about data analytics, Duke is a
natural fit.

“With its longstanding commitment to interdisciplinary research and team
building – not to mention global experts in math, statistics, computer
science, engineering, and multi-modal data integration – Duke is a recognized
leader in this area,” says Schaich Borg. “It’s a terrific environment for
learning how to bridge the gaps between deep knowledge, data, and meaningful
action.”

In addition, for seven years Egger has been teaching Master of Engineering
Management (MEM) learners many of the same topics the Coursera courses will
offer.

“Between the Information Initiative at Duke and the MEM Program, Duke has an
ideal background for this,” Egger says. “Offering these courses is another
great example of how the university is invested in practical problem-solving
and providing educational resources to people outside of the Duke community.”

**_The Duke data analytics courses will be available
atcoursera.org/specializations/excel-mysql __beginning in September. To see
all Duke Coursera courses, visit_** ** _coursera.org/duke._**

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

