

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Robotics Gets an Arm and a Leg Up

March 30, 2016

Originally posted on the Duke Research Blog

There is a robot learning to be a nurse in the School of Nursing. And that’s
not even the most interesting robotics project on Duke’s campus!

Duke’s newly formed Robotics Group showed off a wide range of projects
underway March 28, during the first annual Duke Robotics Student Symposium.
More than 25 speakers from four different universities and one industry-
leading company took turns giving TED-style talks.

The day kicked off with a look at work being done at Aurora Flight Sciences
which included videos of planes designed for human pilots being flown
autonomously by the company’s “C3PA” hardware and software.

Faculty from Duke, NC State, NCCU and Clemson then took turns describing the
work of their own labs, before breaking to visit the robotic nurse-in-
training.

Kris Hauser, one of Duke’s new robotics professors, described the hurdles
they’re working to overcome on the robo-nurse, such as pressure sensors that
are too easily broken by robotic hands, flexible gears to ensure human safety
that also make it impossible to know precisely where a limb will move, and
human operators struggling to control multiple appendages in three dimensions
in real-time.

Still, Hauser and his funders from the NIH hope that the robotic platform
could eventually be used to treat patients in areas with dangerous disease
outbreaks or in rural outposts with too few doctors.

The day wrapped up with Duke students talking about their own projects, with
no shortage of interesting topics: Medical devices programmed to automatically
zap tumors with lasers; tarantula-like robots designed to scale sheer faces of
artificial and natural rock; drone systems developed for monitoring elephants
in African refuges.

And, of course, the work being done to ensure tomorrow’s autonomous cars don’t
run into one another — or anything else for that matter. Learn more about
these projects here.

The day’s take-away message? Despite our short history, there’s a ton going on
in the Duke Robotics group.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

