

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Engineers Make Strides Toward Artificial Cartilage

December 13, 2013 | By Jeni Baker

Composite material closest yet to properties of the real thing

A Duke research team has developed a better recipe for synthetic replacement
cartilage in joints.

Combining two innovative technologies they each helped develop, lead authors
Farshid Guilak, a professor of orthopedic surgery and biomedical engineering,
and Xuanhe Zhao, assistant professor of mechanical engineering and materials
science, found a way to create artificial replacement tissue that mimics both
the strength and suppleness of native cartilage. Their results appear Dec. 17
in the journal Advanced Functional Materials.

Articular cartilage is the tissue on the ends of bones where they meet at
joints in the body – including in the knees, shoulders and hips. It can erode
over time or be damaged by injury or overuse, causing pain and lack of
mobility. While replacing the tissue could bring relief to millions,
replicating the properties of native cartilage -- which is strong and load-
bearing, yet smooth and cushiony -- has proven a challenge. ****

In 2007 Guilak and his team developed a three-dimensional fabric "scaffold"
into which stem cells could be injected and successfully “grown” into
articular cartilage tissue. Constructed of minuscule woven fibers, each of the
scaffold’s seven layers is about as thick as a human hair. The finished
product is about 1 millimeter thick.

Since then, the challenge has been to develop the right medium to fill the
empty spaces of the scaffold -- one that can sustain compressive loads,
provide a lubricating surface and potentially support the growth of stem cells
on the scaffold. Materials supple enough to simulate native cartilage have
been too squishy and fragile to grow in a joint and withstand loading. “Think
Jell-O,” says Guilak. Stronger substances, on the other hand, haven’t been
smooth and flexible enough.

That’s where the partnership with Zhao comes in.

Zhao proposed a theory for the design of durable hydrogels (water-based
polymer gels) and in 2012 collaborated with a team from Harvard University to
develop an exceptionally strong yet pliable interpenetrating-network hydrogel.

“It’s extremely tough, flexible and formable, yet highly lubricating,” Zhao
says. “It has all the mechanical properties of native cartilage and can
withstand wear and tear without fracturing.”

He and Guilak began working together to integrate the hydrogel into the fabric
of the 3-D woven scaffolds in a process Zhao compares to pouring concrete over
a steel framework.

In their experiments, the researchers compared the resulting composite
material to other combinations of Guilak’s scaffolding embedded with
previously studied hydrogels. The tests showed that Zhao’s invention was
tougher than the competition with a lower coefficient of friction. And though
the resulting material did not quite meet the standards of natural cartilage,
it easily outperformed all other known potential artificial replacements
across the board, including the hydrogel and scaffolding by themselves.

“From a mechanical standpoint, this technology remedies the issues that other
types of synthetic cartilage have had,” says Zhao, founder of Duke’s Soft
Active Materials (SAMs) Laboratory. “It’s a very promising candidate for
artificial cartilage in the future.”

The team’s next step will likely be to implant small patches of the synthetic
cartilage in animal models, according to Guilak and Zhao.

Their work was supported in part by National Institutes of Health grants
AG15768, AR50245, AR48182, AR48852, the Arthritis Foundation, the
Collaborative Research Center, AO Foundation, Davos, Switzerland and the NSF
(CMMI-1253495, CMMI-1200515, and DMR-1121107).

# # #

"Composite Three-Dimensional Woven Scaffolds with Interpenetrating Network
Hydrogels to Create Functional Synthetic Articular Cartilage," Liao, I.-C.,
Moutos, F. T., Estes, B. T., Zhao, X. and Guilak, F. Adv. Funct. Mater., 2013.

doi: 10.1002/adfm.201300483

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

