

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Engineering Spinout Aims to Improve Cancer Drug Screening

April 21, 2020 | By Elizabeth Witherspoon

Celldom’s microfluidics imaging technology pinpoints drug-resistant cells

__Does a cell live or die when exposed to a drug therapy? If a cell lives, how
fast does it grow, and does its growth rate change over time?__ These
questions are central to a cancer biologist’s research.

And, choosing which cancer drug to advance into clinical trials to obtain FDA
approval can be a $100 million gamble by a pharmaceutical company. Trials can
establish whether a treatment if safe and effective, but only much later,
sometimes after a drug is on the market, will they learn whether the drug is
durable over the long term—or if a few outlier cells will develop resistance
and lead to a relapse.

Celldom, a Duke University spinout company from the lab of Benjamin Yellen,
associate professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science, is bringing to market a system that aims to pre-screen potential
therapeutics for long-term effectiveness by significantly improving the
ability to completely characterize the phenotypes and genotypes of individual
cells, instead of testing drugs in a broader environment like a blood or
tissue sample.

“What we’re proposing is to give you a way to qualify drugs based on which
ones are most likely to be durable,” said Yellen, chief technology officer of
Celldom.

According to Yellen, the promise of single-cell analysis is in the ability to
find rare cells in a population that have important clinical implications. For
example, drug-resistant cells present at small fractions in a background of
otherwise drug-sensitive cancer cells can actually become enriched during
treatment, leading to tumor regrowth. Quantifying these rare cell responses
could help drug developers screen drugs prior to clinical trials.

Yellen’s team has developed a tiny silicon chip that uses microfluidic
technology to trap 6,000 cells at a time, each in individual chambers. Next,
the cells are exposed to a target drug and undergo monitoring for days with
time-lapse imaging. Within a few days, the image sets help researchers
determine what percentage of the cells died and what percentage lived, and
which ones grew quickly or slowly. Based on these images, they can then
analyze the genomic properties of these cells to discover specific mutations
or analyze gene expression patterns in the drug-resistant cells as compared to
the drug-sensitive ones.

Through this combination of live-cell imaging and single-cell genomic
measurements, the Celldom platform can predict which drugs are likely to lead
to resistance, rule them out and therefore bypass the lengthy and expensive
clinical trials process.

This work is one of many examples where the science of engineering and
materials research is meeting the challenge of medicine with creative
solutions. Yellen is an expert in microfluidics, the science of manipulating
and controlling fluids at the submillimeter scale. The field emerged in the
early 1980s and was used at the time, for example, in developing inkjet
printer heads.

Today, microfluidics has given rise to a host of applications involving DNA
microarray experiments. In fact, Celldom’s process involves labeling each
individual cell on the chip with a DNA sequence, which acts like a barcode.

“We append these barcodes onto the RNA or DNA in the cells of each chamber, so
that when we read it on the sequencer, we can trace it back to the individual
chamber and therefore to the sets of images,” said Yellen. “What’s different
about us from other companies is that we are developing a way to do this very
cheaply and at very large scale.”

Another potential application area for the Celldom technology, after bringing
this first one successfully to market, is in precision medicine, said Yellen.

For example, a patient would provide a very small sample of a tumor or blood,
in the case of a blood cancer, and Celldom would test it on a chip with over
20 drugs to find out precisely which is the most effective treatment for them.

In addition to support from Duke’s Office of Licensing & Ventures and the
Duke-Coulter Translational Partnership, Celldom has attracted support through
private investment, federal grants from the National Institutes of Health
Small Business Innovation Research Grants and angel investors. The company
operates bi-coastally with teams in downtown Durham and in the San Francisco
Bay area.

Yellen said he anticipates the company will remain bi-coastal, because it
needs access both to molecular and cell biology expertise in North
Carolina—cofounder Kris Wood is an assistant professor in the Department of
Pharmacology & Cancer Biology at Duke—and the instrument development and
software expertise in Silicon Valley. As for Yellen, personally, he says he
will return to Duke at the end of his two-year sabbatical which began in
January to teach, continue his research and, who knows, perhaps spin out
another company one day.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

