

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke's First Energy Minors Demonstrate Burgeoning Professional Demand

June 2, 2015 | By Bryan Koen, Duke Energy Initiative

Commencement season brought evidence of the continual and growing demand for
undergraduate energy education programs at Duke University.

_Reposted from theDuke Energy Initiative website_

Commencement season brought evidence of the continual and growing demand for
undergraduate energy education programs at Duke University, as the Pratt
School of Engineering graduated its first students in its minor in Energy
Engineering and the Certificate in Energy and the Environment bid farewell to
another hefty class.

The minor, launched in 2013 under the direction of Professor of Civil and
Environmental Engineering Marc Deshusses, requires coursework in two technical
focus areas. The generation and delivery category includes topics such as
Renewable Energy Technologies, Modern Power Systems and Deshusses' own
Bioenergy course. In the conversion and efficiency category, students can take
such courses as Transportation Energy and Energy for the Built Environment.
The final requirement for the minor is a capstone design project.

The energy engineering minor is already paying dividends for this year's
graduates, all four of whom majored in mechanical engineering. They're all
headed for the energy sector, having landed jobs with prestigious corporations
like Schlumberger, Siemens and Tesla Motors.

"I am excited to see these students graduating with the minor. This is an
important milestone," Deshusses said.

In developing the minor, Deshusses surveyed a number of Pratt alumni and
industry professionals, discovering an immense demand for engineers with a
technical understanding of energy and energy technologies. He looks forward to
expanding the program's portfolio of course offerings to assure that the
program becomes instrumental in fulfilling that demand.

The energy engineering minor complements the interdisciplinary Certificate in
Energy and the Environment, which saw a graduating class of 19 students this
spring. In addition to courses in science and technology, the certificate –
open to undergraduates from both Pratt and Trinity College of Arts & Sciences
– includes coursework in markets and policy as well as environmental science
in order to "develop innovative thinkers and leaders who understand the energy
system as a whole," as its mission statement attests. It culminates in a
capstone project.

Like their peers in the minor, many of the 2015 certificate graduates are
embarking on energy careers, joining firms such as GE, NextEra and the
Macquarie Group. They'll bring with them significant interdisciplinary
knowledge and research experience garnered through their team capstone
projects. Supervised by certificate co-directors Josiah D. Knight and Emily
Klein, these projects yielded functional prototypes for a solar-powered
autoclave and an off-grid ice maker for vaccine storage, as well as
feasibility studies on a number of novel uses for flare gas.

The certificate's broad curricular approach represents a microcosm of the wide
variety of opportunities for energy students at Duke. More than 1,400 students
enrolled in 54 energy-related courses across six different schools during the
2014-15 academic year.

For more about the new Energy Minor, read the recent story written by
engineering undergraduates in the 2015 DukEngineer.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

