

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Engineering Student Named a 2013 Goldwater Scholar

April 8, 2013

The one- and two-year scholarships will cover the cost of tuition, fees,
books, room and board up to a maximum of $7,500 per year

Duke engineering junior **Kushal Seetharam** has been selected as a scholar by
the Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Program.

Seetharam is among 271 students awarded Goldwater Scholarships for the 2013-14
academic year. Fellow Duke junior Yaohua Xue, a chemistry and economics double
major, also received a Goldwater Scholarship this year. The one- and two-year
scholarships will cover the cost of tuition, fees, books, room and board up to
a maximum of $7,500 per year.

The Goldwater Scholars were selected on the basis of academic merit from a
national field of more than 1,100 mathematics, science and engineering
students. The program honoring the late U.S. Sen. Barry Goldwater was designed
to foster and encourage outstanding students to pursue careers in the fields
of mathematics, the natural sciences and engineering.

Seetharam, an Angier B. Duke Scholar from Great Falls, Va., is a physics and
electrical and computer engineering double major. He is also a 2014 NAE Grand
Challenges Scholar and Boeing Grand Challenges K-12 Outreach Fellow at the
Pratt School of Engineering at Duke. He intends to earn a Ph.D. in applied
physics, and wants to conduct research in applications of electromagnetics and
photonics.

Seetharam is currently working on a project to improve wireless energy
transfer with metamaterials. His faculty advisor is engineering professor
David R. Smith, director of Duke's Center for Metamaterials and Integrated
Plasmonics.

"The field of metamaterials is one of the few where a project can span theory,
simulation and experimental demonstration while remaining within an
individual's ability to carry out," Seetharam said.

"On a personal level, I have always wanted to be an inventor across multiple
fields. Modern improvements in digital technology have made scientific and
technological development increasingly computational. Having the ability to
develop computational techniques combined with a deep knowledge of physics
will allow me the versatility necessary to work on a range of projects."

Seetharam intends to teach on the university level.

Since its first award in 1989, the foundation has bestowed more than 6,550
scholarships worth approximately $40 million. Sixty-two Duke students have
received Goldwater Scholarships since 1995.

Read more on Duke Today

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

