

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Engineering Is Running Blockchain

February 12, 2020 | by Miranda Volborth

Using Ethereum and Ripple, two popular blockchain platforms, students are
learning how cryptocurrency flows

It’s been 11 years since Bitcoin and blockchain launched, but the concept of
anonymous, unalterable financial transactions can still feel a little bit
illicit to those with little to no experience.

“I remember watching the news about Bitcoin and thinking, “This is so wrong.
It has no regulations,” said Asha Mallapragada, a student in the
Entrepreneurship and Founders Track of Duke’s Master of Engineering Management
Program, who was working as an anti-money laundering consultant at the time.

Jimmie Lenz, the director of Duke Engineering’s new FinTech master’s program,
which launches in the fall of 2020, expects perceptions like Mallapragada’s to
shift as she and the other student’s in Lenz’s blockchain class learn more
about the platforms, and gain a balanced understanding of when, why and how to
leverage blockchain’s special powers: permanency, unparalleled security, and
flexibility in facilitating different types of transactions.

Lenz is achieving this, in part, through Duke’s own participation in the
blockchain. Last fall, with assistance from the Duke Office of Information
Technology (OIT), the Pratt School of Engineering installed the university’s
first two blockchain nodes for education and research—Ethereum and Ripple. By
verifying transactions for two types of cryptocurrency—XRP, which is used
primarily by financial institutions, and ether, which is used by everyone
else—students see how transactions are structured, and how cryptocurrency
flows through the platforms.

Students from engineering, finance and computer science make up the class, and
their familiarity with blockchain varies. Some are already trading
cryptocurrency, while others, starting from zero, learned the basic rules on
the first day of class: first, Bitcoin transactions occur only after the
software-based approval of each anonymous financial transaction by a
distributed network of users—a consensus-based accounting process known as
blockchain. Second, transactions only move forward. (If a student buys a pony
with their Bitcoin, they can’t return it.) Third, if they lose the key to the
small public database known as their “wallet,” their cryptocurrency will be
irretrievably lost.

The benefits of using blockchain outweigh those kinds of risks, said Lenz. For
one thing, transactions validated by blockchain aren’t limited to financial
exchanges. “You can encrypt data there, and it’s currently unbreakable,
because the blocks in the chain cannot be changed,” said Lenz. "It's
immutable."

By the end of the semester, students in Lenz’s class will have learned how to
leverage blockchain’s high security assurances to build code that
automatically executes the terms of an agreement once specified conditions are
met, called "smart contracts." The students' smart contracts will trigger a
release of cryptocurrency into Lenz's wallet when the condition of multi-party
approval is met. “It’s all test currency, used by developers,” Lenz noted—no
profits result from these experimental contracts. The students will also
develop and deploy “tokens” that can represent assets common to finance, like
equity and debt.

> “From the perspective of a prospective entrepreneur, I want to learn as much
> as I can about a technology that can be applied in so many different ways.”
>
> Asha Mallapragada, Master's student, Entrepreneurship and Founders Track

Mallapragada said that the concept of blockchain has grown on her as she
learns more about it. “Personally, I think blockchain has the potential to
solve diverse problems when applied to areas like digital voting, information
transfer and even, surprisingly, to regulation and compliance,” she said.
“From the perspective of a prospective entrepreneur, I want to learn as much
as I can about a technology that can be applied in so many different ways.”

To her point, Steve McClelland, Duke Engineering’s Executive-in-Residence and
a faculty mentor in the Entrepreneurship and Founders Master’s Track, is
planning to offer funding for a multi-day online blockchain seminar and
accelerator to students who want to launch startups. FinTech students will
explore the possibilities of Ethereum more deeply in the coming months, as the
new master’s program ramps up.

Duke MEng in Fintech

## Related News

September 12, 2019

### Duke Launches New Master of Engineering in Financial Technology

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

