

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke to Lead $15 Million Program to Create First Practical Quantum Computer

August 7, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

Seven-university, five-year interdisciplinary collaboration is funded by the
National Science Foundation’s largest quantum computing effort to date

Researchers from Duke University will lead a seven-university, $15 million
collaboration with the audacious goal of building the world’s first practical
quantum computer.

Dubbed the Software-Tailored Architecture for Quantum co-design (STAQ)
project, the effort seeks to demonstrate a quantum advantage over traditional
computers within five years using ion trap technology.

The project is the result of a National Science Foundation Ideas Lab—a week-
long, free-form exchange among researchers from a wide range of fields that
aims to spawn creative, collaborative proposals to address a given research
challenge. The result of each Ideas Lab is interdisciplinary research that is
high-risk, high-reward, cutting-edge and unlikely to be funded through
traditional grant mechanisms.

This particular NSF Ideas Lab focused on the Practical Fully-Connected Quantum
Computer challenge. STAQ will involve physicists, computer scientists and
engineers from Duke University, University of Maryland, University of Chicago,
Tufts University, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, University of
California-Berkeley and University of New Mexico.

“Quantum computers will change everything about the technology we use and how
we use it, and we are still taking the initial steps toward realizing this
goal,” said NSF Director France Córdova. “Developing the first practical
quantum computer would be a major milestone. By bringing together experts who
have outlined a path to a practical quantum computer and supporting its
development, NSF is working to take the quantum revolution from theory to
reality.”

“There’s a really clear path to getting to two-to-three dozen ion trap qubits
working together in a quantum computer,” said Kenneth Brown, associate
professor of electrical and computer engineering, chemistry, and physics at
Duke, and leader of the new collaboration. “But it will take at least twice as
many to solve a challenging calculation, and achieving that within five years
is no cakewalk.”

Many private companies including Google and IBM are also working to build
their own versions of a quantum computer, but with different underlying
technology. The new collaboration will be working with trapped ions—atoms with
electrons stripped away to give them a positive electric charge. That charge
allows researchers to suspend ultra-cooled atoms using an electromagnetic
field in an ultra-high vacuum, where precise lasers manipulate their quantum
states to form qubits.

Qubits are the quantum mechanical analogue of a traditional logical bit, which
can be in a “1” or a “0” state, except a qubit can be in both positions at the
same time. While researchers have proven able to build robust qubits, scaling
them into large networks while detecting and correcting errors remains a
challenge.

“System-level research for quantum computers—such as architecture designs,
operating systems, compilers and programming environments—have only been
performed in an academic environment at an abstract level so far,” said
Jungsang Kim, professor of electrical and computer engineering, physics and
computer science at Duke, who will collaborate on the project with Brown.
“This project will enable these research activities to be carried out on a
concrete experimental hardware system, so practical progress can be made.”

"The first truly effective quantum computer will not emerge from one
researcher working in a single discipline," echoed NSF Chief Operating Officer
Fleming Crim. "Quantum computing requires experts from a range of fields, with
individuals applying complementary insights to solve some of the most
challenging problems in science and engineering. NSF's STAQ project uniquely
addresses that need, providing a cutting-edge approach that promises to
dramatically advance U.S. leadership in quantum computing."

The project’s integrated approach to developing a practical quantum computer
relies on finding new algorithms based on optimization and scientific
computing problems, improving quantum computer hardware, and developing
software tools that optimize algorithm performance for the specific machine.

The STAQ researchers will focus on four primary goals:

  * Develop a quantum computer with a sufficiently large number of quantum
    bits (qubits) to solve a challenging calculation.
  * Ensure that every qubit interacts with all other qubits in the system,
    critical for solving fundamental problems in physics.
  * Integrate software, algorithms, devices and systems engineering.
  * Involve equal input from experimentalists, theorists, engineers and
    computer scientists.

Chris Monroe, the Bice Seci-Zorn Professor of Physics at the University of
Maryland and Fellow of the Joint Quantum Institute, will lead the team
developing the hardware. Fred Chong, the Seymour Goodman Professor of Computer
Science at The University of Chicago will lead the software component of the
project. Peter Love, associate professor of physics and astronomy at Tufts
University, will lead the team developing applications to run on the new
quantum system. And as the leader of the entire project, it will be Brown’s
job to oversee the integration of and communication among the groups.

Other members of the collaboration include: Akimasa Miyake of the University
of New Mexico, Aram Harrow of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Alexey Gorshkov of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, and
Hartmut Haeffner of the University of California – Berkeley.

“This project ties together several groups that I have worked on projects with
separately in the past,” said Brown. “It is also providing me the opportunity
to work with other well-known researchers in the field who I’ve always wanted
to collaborate with. Having everyone together under one umbrella is truly
exciting.”

As a cross-disciplinary project, STAQ encourages convergence across research
fields and aligns with The Quantum Leap: Leading the Next Quantum Revolution,
one of NSF's 10 Big Ideas for Future NSF Investments. It is funded through
NSF’s Mathematical and Physical Sciences, Engineering, and Computer and
Information Science and Engineering directorates.

**About The Quantum Leap: Leading the Next Quantum Revolution**

One of NSF’s 10 Big Ideas, The Quantum Leap initiative aims to accelerate
innovative research and provide a path forward for science and engineering to
help solve one of the most critical, competitive and challenging issues of our
time. Researchers will design, construct and analyze new approaches to quantum
computing and test algorithms at a scale beyond the reach of simulations run
on classical computers. Quantum research is essential for preparing future
scientists and engineers to implement the discoveries of the next quantum
revolution into technologies that will benefit the nation.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

