

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Engineering’s New “EngEn” Accelerates the Impact of Tech-Based
Innovation

September 23, 2020

Duke Engineering Entrepreneurship (Duke EngEn) integrates educational
programs, startup resources, new facilities and an A-team of seasoned
entrepreneurs to deliver technology-based solutions for health, defense,
climate and beyond

When the pandemic forced a partial shutdown of Duke University’s campus on one
side and raised concerns about PPE supply shortages at the medical center on
the other, Duke Engineering Entrepreneurship was ready to step up.

Also known as Duke EngEn, the major new initiative at Duke’s Pratt School of
Engineering came together in early 2020 to coordinate authentic design
experiences, entrepreneurial education, and resources to support faculty,
staff and student startups—all with the goal of speeding the delivery of
technology-based solutions to society.

> "At Duke Engineering, we are focused on accelerating the process by which
> the innnovations of our faculty and students get to the marketplace."
>
> **Ravi V. Bellamkonda**  
>  Vinik Dean of Engineering

EngEn’s “dream team” of talented engineering designers and entrepreneurs, most
recruited to Duke in the last few years, pivoted to launch the Duke COVID-19
Engineering Response Team, working closely with faculty, staff, students and
clinicians across campus to meet identified clinical equipment needs.

Six months later, the team has developed and produced more than 30,000
3D-printed reusable face shields; invented a way to adapt surgical helmets to
become powered air-purifying respirator (PAPR) systems (and licensed the
design to dozens of other institutions); and designed a sophisticated device
to enable one ventilator to serve two patients that is currently awaiting
emergency FDA approval—among many other innovations.

The COVID-19 response is just one example of the impact Duke Engineering
leaders expect EngEn will have over the long term.

"Many of the greatest challenges facing society and our planet will only be
solved by interdisciplinary teams that know how to identify authentic needs,
have the expertise to design solutions that are both technically and
commercially sound, and use entrepreneurial know-how to deliver those
solutions to society," said Ravi V. Bellamkonda, Vinik Dean of Engineering.

"At Duke Engineering, we are focused on accelerating the process by which the
innovations discovered and created by our faculty and students get to the
marketplace—the best place to make timely and major global positive effects."

Duke EngEn currently sponsors programs including:

  * **Duke Design Health**, which brings together engineering and business
    graduate students with medical trainees to develop needs-based solutions
    to problems in the clinical setting
  * Undergraduate educational initiatives including the **A. James Clark
    Scholars Program** and the **Founder's Workshop course**
  * **Duke Design Defense** (previously known as Hacking 4 Defense), a course
    in which undergraduate and graduate students team up to design solutions
    for local military units
  * **Student Founders**, a joint program with Duke I&E that offers
    entrepreneurship coaching, practice and community for students interested
    in starting new ventures
  * The **Entrepreneurship & Founders Track** of Duke's Master of Engineering
    Management program
  * **The BRiDGE**, a business incubator in the Chesterfield building which is
    home to more than a half-dozen Duke-affiliated startups
  * **FastTrack** **,** an accelerator program which provides full-time
    engineering support to develop and commercialize medical devices that
    address clinical unmet needs.
  * The **Baquerizo Innovation Grant**, which awards up to $20,000 annually to
    support student led technological innovation
  * An **Entrepreneurship Workshop Series** for faculty, staff and students
  * **One-on-one consultation and advising **from a team of experienced tech
    entrepreneurs

"While EngEn brings together a big team and lots of projects that have been
ongoing at Duke Engineering, this initiative is about more than just
streamlining administration," said Associate Dean for Entrepreneurship Ken
Gall, a professor of mechanical engineering and materials science and
successful entrepreneur, who co-leads the initiative. "Our goal was to build a
true engine, driving the cycle of problem identification, solution development
and the robust launch of new ventures into the commercial space."

> "In entrepreneurship, there is 'tech push' and also 'market
> pull'—critically, EngEn does both."
>
> **Barry Myers**  
>  professor of BME and director, Duke-Coulter Partnership

Two dedicated spaces in Duke’s New Engineering Building will focus on EngEn
programs along both sides of the spectrum. A Center for Innovation will serve
students, faculty and staff that identify, design and test tech-based
innovations, while a Center for Entrepreneurship will support those working to
launch new products, services and companies.

"When our new entrepreneurship spaces become available in November 2020, our
students will take on complex problems, design solutions and work to deliver
them to the customer," said Bill Walker, the Mattson Family Director of
Engineering Entrepreneurship. "Typically, universities leave that last step to
someone else, but our vision is for our students to have this ‘problem-to-
design-to-launch’ experience while they're enrolled and earning credit."

### Combining Problem-Finding and Problem-Solving

"Entrepreneurship is more than having a great idea—it must also satisfy a
need," added Barry Myers, a professor of biomedical engineering and director
of the Duke-Coulter Translational Partnership. "There is what we call 'tech
push,' where we have a new technology that might be of help to the world, but
there is also 'market pull,' where our careful analysis has identified a
problem that needs a solution—critically, EngEn does both."

For example, in 2019, Duke Engineering led the launch of the Duke Design
Health Program in collaboration with Duke's School of Medicine, Trinity
College of Arts & Sciences, Duke Innovation & Entrepreneurship Initiative and
Fuqua School of Business. It offers a nine-month experience in which students
and medical trainees work with Duke Health clinicians to actively identify,
validate, prioritize and create solutions to problems that impact human
health.

> "The Duke Office of Licensing & Ventures and our Duke New Ventures group
> look forward to collaborating with EngEn."
>
> **Robin Rasor**  
>  executive director of Duke OLV

Design Health is among the many ways EngEn collaborates with partners across
campus, including MEDx (Medicine & Engineering at Duke), Duke Office of
Licensing & Ventures (OLV), Duke Innovation & Entrepreneurship Initiative
(I&E) and Duke School of Medicine's Office of Regulatory Affairs and Quality
(ORAQ), among others.

"OLV and our Duke New Ventures group look forward to collaborating with
EngEn," said Robin Rasor, executive director of OLV, which focuses on
identifying and protecting Duke-owned inventions and negotiating the
appropriate license agreements. "Our Mentors-in-Residence and Venture Fellows
have used their entrepreneurial experience, insights, and connections to help
several Duke Engineering startups such as MicroElastic, Lumedica Vision, and
RealTime Robotics. Our shared goal is to move innovations out of the
university and into the public to solve unmet problems and societal needs."

Duke Engineering Entrepreneurship is a new and bold initiative to
intentionally co-mingle design spaces, design faculty, interdisciplinary
student teams and a dream team of successful entrepreneurs to allow for
creative technology-based solutions to complex challenges like health, defense
and climate change, Bellamkonda said. He sees it as a natural next chapter of
Duke Engineering's 80-year heritage as a leader in creating high-impact
solutions for significant challenges facing society.

"Developing creative solutions that help advance our society is the essence of
being an engineer," he said. "Engineers help us manage and cope with change.
However, that commitment to problem-solving for the good of society has
remained our outrageous ambition from the outset." __

### Learn more about EngEn:

Go to EngEn.duke.edu

## Related News

April 30, 2020

### COVID-19 Engineering Response Team Assembles from Every Corner of Duke

April 21, 2020

### Duke Engineering Spinout Aims to Improve Cancer Drug Screening

October 10, 2019

### Startup Stories

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

