

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Engineers and Clinicians Create Medical Devices Together

August 28, 2015

Duke-Coulter Partnership awards nearly $800K of biomedical engineering and
clinical research to address unmet clinical needs

_This story appeared originally on the Duke Translational Research Institute
site_

Four new projects and two renewal projects will receive nearly $800,000 for
research through the 2015 Coulter-Duke Translational Partnership grant. The
funding, which begins on September 1, marks the 10th year of the program.

This year’s new recipients are developing non-invasive methods of measuring
stiff livers and brain fluid, and using computing power to screen for mental
health and personalize spinal cord stimulation.

The Coulter-Duke program, launched in 2006, accelerates the development of
promising bioengineering research that addresses unmet clinical needs. The
awards help bridge the hard-to-fund period between proof-of-concept and a
commercially viable idea.

To be eligible for the one-year grants, research teams must include a lead
investigator from the Pratt School of Engineering’s Biomedical Engineering
department, and at least one member of Duke’s Medical School faculty or staff.
Once selected, the teams receive not only funding support, but project
management and expertise from the Duke Translational Research Institute and
Duke’s Office of Licensing and Ventures.

Over the past decade, Duke has awarded more than $7 million to 36 projects
through the Coulter Award program with heartening results: more than $385
million in follow-on funding, six licenses to industry, and eight new
companies formed.

“The most exciting thing about the Coulter Program at Duke is seeing how each
year the projects get better and better,” says Barry Myers, director of the
program. “Working with our faculty, we moved five projects into the market in
the first five years and 13 in the second four. Growth like that only happens
when truly innovative faculty get the resources they need to succeed.”

**2015-16 Awards**

This year’s new Duke-Coulter Translational Research Partnership recipients
are:

  * BME associate research professor **Dale Bass** and pediatric neurosurgeon
    **Carrie Muh** , who will develop a passive pressure sensor to allow
    intracranial pressure and shunt flow to be queried non-invasively for
    patients who have had a shunt implanted to drain excess fluid from around
    the brain.
  * BME research scientist **Peter Hollender** , BME and Anesthesiology
    assistant research professor **Mark Palmeri** , and associate professor of
    medicine **Manal Abdelmalek** , who will build a portable ultrasound
    elastography device for measuring the stiffness of the liver. Clinicians
    could use this device to help diagnose non-alcoholic fatty liver disease
    without an invasive liver biopsy.
  * BME and Neurobiology professor **Warren Grill** and assistant professor of
    Surgery **Nandan Lad** , who will validate novel patient-specific
    computational models expected to increase the efficacy and efficiency of
    chronic pain treatment using spinal cord stimulation.
  * Pratt School of Engineering professor **Guillermo Sapiro** , and professor
    **Geraldine Dawson** and associate professor **Helen Egger** from the
    Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Science, who will develop
    downloadable screening and clinical trial monitoring applications for
    mobile devices. These programs automatically analyze children’s visual
    attention, emotional behavior, and vital signs in response to stimuli
    designed to elicit early behaviors indicating risk for autism or a child
    mental health condition.

Additionally, two teams that received Duke-Coulter award funding during the
last cycle have been awarded continuation grants:

  * The team of **Michael Therien** , **Terry Yoshizumi** , and **Junzo
    Chino** will continue to push forward with their real time, in-vivo
    radiation dose monitoring for external beam radiotherapy and brachytherapy
  * **Charles Gersbach** , associate professor in BME, will continue to work
    with pediatric neurologist **Edward Smith** to develop targeted gene
    editing of skeletal muscle progenitor cells to treat Duchenne Muscular
    Dystrophy.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

