

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Students Share Skills with a Rural Mexican Community to Strengthen
Ecotourism

May 31, 2018

Mechanical Engineering and Environment graduate students team up to help a
rural Mexican community develop a renewable energy strategy and a business
plan for sustainable ecotourism

_From Duke University Interdisciplinary Studies_

Ruxandra Popovici, a Ph.D. student in Environment, teamed up with Emilio
Blanco Gonzalez and Adam Cullen, master’s students in Mechanical Engineering,
on a proposal to help a rural Mexican community develop a renewable energy
strategy and a business plan for sustainable ecotourism.

They received a Duke Support for Interdisciplinary Graduate Networks (D-SIGN)
grant from the Office of the Vice Provost for Interdisciplinary Studies for
use in 2017-2018, with faculty sponsor Elizabeth Shapiro-Garza.

Last summer, the three graduate students traveled with undergraduate Matheus
Dias to Playa Grande. They assessed the community’s ecotourism business and
energy needs, and generated two reports with recommendations.

Here are excerpts from their year-end report.

Playa Grande is a Mexican _ejido_ , where land is jointly owned by a group of
70 community members. Residents of Playa Grande, like many rural communities
in Mexico, participate in government-funded conservation programs where
community members receive monetary compensation in exchange for their
involvement in the sustainable management and stewardship of communal natural
resources. Their conservation activities include fire prevention, protection
against illegal logging and hunting, and maintaining corridors for jaguar
protection.

Ejido Playa Grande is part of a small group of communities that decided to
invest their conservation program earnings into an ecotourism business, which
is jointly owned by community members. Their company has been growing but
community members are looking to improve their business strategy in order to
attract more customers, as well as to transition to a renewable energy
strategy to power their tourist center.

A common problem encountered by rural communities in Mexico is that it is
difficult to access experts that can provide specialized assistance in fields
such as business, marketing, and engineering. To remedy this situation,
students at Duke created Economic Sustainability, an initiative that connects
rural community members to “student experts” that assist residents with their
business and engineering needs.

Adam and Emilio evaluated three renewable energy options – hydro, wind, and
solar – and recommended that the community invest in additional solar panels,
which they have found to be the most cost-effective option. Community leaders
in Playa Grande have already bought additional solar panels based on this
recommendation.Matheus, an economics major, created a report documenting the
community’s existing business structure and activities. This report is
extremely useful for community members, as it provides concrete documentation
about their business, which they can use to apply for loans and government
grants. In addition, Matheus conducted research on the region’s ecotourism
market and provided suggestions for improving the ecotourism business and
developing future services.

Ruxandra interviewed micro-entrepreneurs. She facilitated a partnership with
NC State’s P1tLab, whose students, faculty, and staff provide guidance on the
community’s marketing and business strategy. Due to the very competitive and
vertically integrated nature of the tourism industry in the region, this
community is struggling to “capture” visitors from the international enclave
destination of Puerto Vallarta. Through this partnership with Duke and NC
State’s P1tLab, members of Ejido Playa Grande will attempt to penetrate local
retail monopolies to advertise their services directly to potential visitors.

Duke Graduate Degrees in Mechanical Engineering

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

