

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Expert Helps Spearhead State's New Water Testing Program

August 8, 2018

Screening program hopes to avoid the next GenX contamination problem

_FromDuke Today_

With some help from a Duke University analytical chemist and his million-
dollar lab instrument, the state of North Carolina is about to launch one of
the world’s most ambitious testing programs to detect chemical contaminants in
drinking water.

Lee Ferguson, an associate professor of civil and environmental engineering,
will not only be helping do the analysis, he helped design the system and get
state government funding to support it.

After the discovery of a chemical contaminant called GenX in the Cape Fear
River and Wilmington’s drinking water two years ago, Ferguson said citizens
were asking their legislators “is my water safe to drink? That level of
interest led people to ask the question, ‘what else is there?’”

> With $5 million from a bill passed by the legislature in June, the
> Polyfluorinated Alkyl Substance Testing (PFAST) network will look at the
> chemistry of about 350 municipal water supplies over the next year,
> including both surface waters and well water.

With $5 million from a bill passed by the legislature in June, the
Polyfluorinated Alkyl Substance Testing (PFAST) network will look at the
chemistry of about 350 municipal water supplies over the next year, including
both surface waters and well water. Ideally, they can look at each source at
least once during the year, Ferguson said.

The program will be administered by The North Carolina Policy Collaboratory, a
state-funded effort to link the expertise of faculty in the UNC system with
the state government. The Collaboratory will award grants to more than 20
researchers at North Carolina universities to conduct the testing and begin
work on related research projects. The PFAST Network will be headquartered at
UNC- Chapel Hill within the Gillings School of Public Health.

“We are grateful to the legislature for this important opportunity to
collaborate with universities and public agencies across North Carolina to
obtain critical evidence needed to protect the health of North Carolinians,”
said Barbara K. Rimer, Dean of the Gillings School. “With the outstanding
university teams and comprehensive strategy that will be undertaken, North
Carolina will lead the country in this kind of research.”

In the startup phase of the testing program, water samples will be brought to
Duke and NC State University to scan them broadly for the presence of
polyfluorinated “emerging contaminants,” man-made chemicals in water whose
risk to human health and the environment isn’t fully understood. The latest
mass spectrometers will be used to search for per- and polyfluoroalkyl
substances (PFAS) of all kinds.

GenX, for example, is a PFAS with unknown health risks. The substance is known
to be toxic and corrosive, but there isn’t a lot of data about how it would
affect human health at the concentrations found in the Cape Fear River. A
byproduct of Teflon and other non-stick coatings, it is believed to have been
discharged into the Cape Fear from a Fayetteville chemical plant since at
least the 1980s. NC State University researchers are working on a health study
with 300 Wilmington residents now.

Legislators who were being contacted by constituents asking if their water was
safe to drink were a receptive audience, Ferguson said. At first he was called
to testify before a sub-committee, but before long, he found himself having
one-on-one conversations with lawmakers in Raleigh.

“This is the first time I’ve ever been involved in this kind of thing,” he
said. “We were talking about GenX, but I was explaining that we have the
technology to do what is called ‘non-targeted analysis,’” Ferguson said, in
which the latest kinds of mass spectrometers can sift through a sample for the
signatures of hundreds of known and unknown compounds.

This approach to water testing doesn’t decide ahead of time what contaminants
to look for; it’s what is known as ‘non-targeted analysis,’ and it looks for
every compound in the water.

A typically casual professor, he found himself wearing a suit and tie “and
being dragged around the corridors of the legislative office building talking
to people about mass spectrometry.”

Ferguson said the ideal model he had in mind is a system on the Rhine River in
Europe which is monitored daily for emerging contaminants to safeguard the
drinking water of 20 million people. “This is the model of how it could be
done,” Ferguson said.

Duke had recently purchased the latest mass spectrometry equipment for toxic
exposures research being done by Ferguson and Heather Stapleton, the Dan and
Bunny Gabel Associate Professor of Environmental Ethics and Sustainable
Environmental Management.

“If this had happened five years ago, we would be unprepared,” Ferguson said,
because the technology didn’t exist.

It also helps that he and NC State professor Detlef Knappe, who discovered the
GenX problem, are internationally recognized experts in emerging contaminants
being found in water. “It’s actually very fortunate that North Carolina is the
place that this (GenX) happened,” Ferguson said.

> The PFAST Network will require water sampling in all regions of the state to
> establish a baseline for monitoring long-term changes in North Carolina’s
> water quality.

The PFAST Network will require water sampling in all regions of the state to
establish a baseline for monitoring long-term changes in North Carolina’s
water quality. It will also look at chemical compound removal and air quality
impacts.

If a problem is identified, the study’s scope includes determining its extent
and identifying practical solutions that protect the public from adverse
health impacts of these compounds.

Results of the study will be shared with the public on a regular basis,
including quarterly reports to the legislature’s Environmental Review
Commission and other state and federal regulatory agencies. The study will
conclude next fall, and the team will issue its final report to the
legislature in December, 2019.

After that, the hope is that a partnership with the state’s Department of
Environment and Natural Resources could be created to continue and perhaps
expand the water monitoring program, Ferguson said.

Calling this a needle-in-a-haystack problem doesn’t quite cover it, Ferguson
adds. There are 60 million to 80 million organic chemicals, of which at least
85,000 are used industrially in the United States. “Is that the universe of
molecules we should care about? Probably not.” But still, only about 200 of
those chemicals are regulated, and only about 10,000 have been tested for
health effects. “That leaves a lot of chemical space we don’t know about.”

However, during the legislative process, lobbying by industry groups led to
some limits on the scope of the testing – the current project focuses only on
polyfluoroalkyl substances instead of full non-targeted analysis, for fear of
opening a Pandora’s box, Ferguson said. “I learned way more about politics
than I ever wanted to know.”

The NC Policy Collaboratory is partnering with Duke’s University Program in
Environmental Health to plan a day-long symposium on emerging contaminants
Sept. 28 at the Washington Duke Executive Conference Center at Duke.

More From Duke CEE

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

