

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke-Volvo Team Wins Best Paper Award at ICCV Workshop

October 24, 2019

The team has developed the first LiDAR system capable of long-range detection
and classification

Duke PhD student Ze Wang and professors Qiang Qiu and Guillermo Sapiro, in
collaboration with Volvo Cars, have received the best paper award of the
International Conference on Computer Vision’s 2019 Autonomous Driving Workshop
for their project titled "Range Adaptation for 3D Object Detection in LiDAR."

3D detection of objects in the environment—like buildings, other vehicles, or
pedestrians—is a critical capability for autonomous navigation systems, but
data gathered by LiDAR sensors often changes dramatically over distance. That
is because the collection of data points that define objects in the
environment (called “point clouds”) are denser at close range, thus creating
fuller, more recognizable 3D images.

The Duke-Volvo team approached the challenge by adapting the short-range model
to work for far-range observations, using a bird’s-eye view detection
framework. The proposed cross-range adaptation framework is validated on three
state-of-the-art, LiDAR-based object detection networks, and has consistently
demonstrated performance improvement on the far-range objects without adding
auxiliary parameters to the model. The authors believe theirs is the first
attempt to study cross-range LiDAR adaptation for object detection in point
clouds.

"LiDAR-based object detection has been a key enabling technology in Defense
sensing applications for quite a while, but far-range performance is degraded
by lower observed point density,” said Dr. Joseph Myers, chief of the Army
Research Office’s Mathematical Sciences Division, an element of the U.S. Army
Combat Capabilities Development Command’s Army Research Laboratory. “This work
will open the door to similar detection capabilities for both near- and far-
range observations."

This project, which exemplifies academia-industry collaboration, is one of the
many efforts in computer vision and machine learning underway in Sapiro's
group. Its work is partially supported by the U.S. Army Research Office, the
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, the National Science Foundation, the
Office of Naval Research, the National Institutes of Health, and gifts from
industry and foundations.

More News From ECE

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

