

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke BME's Amanda Randles: Supercomputing Award Targets Cellular Behavior in
Microfluidic Devices

December 7, 2022

Competitive US Department of Energy program doles out time on nation’s fastest
computers to most promising projects

Amanda Randles, the Alfred Winborne and Victoria Stover Mordecai Assistant
Professor of Biomedical Sciences at Duke, has been named one of the recipients
of a high-impact computational science award through the Innovative and Novel
Computational Impact on Theory and Experiment (INCITE) program.

Run by the U.S. Department of Energy’s Office of Science, these awards pursue
transformational advances in science and engineering and account for 60
percent of the available time on the leadership-class supercomputers at DOE’s
Argonne and Oak Ridge national laboratories.

Randles has a long history of developing supercomputer models of blood flowing
through the human vascular system down to the cellular level and using them to
help improve clinical outcomes In this project, she is creating digital
replicas of microfluidic devices that will allow researchers to extract a
wider range of characteristics from computational models than can be directly
measured in laboratory experiments.

With thousands to millions of cells in a device, there are an exorbitant
number of potential orientations cells can be in. Because a single
representative simulation isn’t enough to represent the complexity of what’s
actually happening, researchers must run the program many times. But because
each simulation is very costly in both time and money, getting enough data can
be challenging. This new work seeks to develop methods to improve the accuracy
of the models, improve the efficiency of the individual simulations and
optimize the workflow for sampling the full state space to make multiple runs
easier to accomplish.

Jointly managed by the Argonne Leadership Computing Facility (ALCF) and the
Oak Ridge Leadership Computing Facility (OLCF), the INCITE program is the
primary means by which the facilities fulfill their mission to advance open
science by providing the scientific community with access to their powerful
supercomputing resources. The ALCF and OLCF are DOE Office of Science user
facilities.

The ALCF’s systems include Theta, a 16-petaflop Cray XC40 system bolstered by
NVIDIA A100 GPUs, and Polaris, a 44-petaflop HPE Apollo 6500 Gen10+ system
that will give scientists and application developers a platform to test and
optimize codes for Aurora, Argonne’s upcoming Intel-HPE exascale
supercomputer.

This year’s INCITE awards are notable for including the first allocations on
Frontier, the OLCF’s flagship HPE Cray EX system, which debuted in May as the
world’s fastest supercomputer with 1.1 exaflops of performance and a
theoretical peak performance of 2 exaflops. OLCF also offers users allocations
on Summit, a 200-petaflop IBM AC922 machine.

## Related News

October 04, 2022

### Randles Wins NIH Director’s Pioneer Award to Predict Heart Disease Risks

November 12, 2020

### Randles Named a 2020 Young Innovator in Cellular and Molecular Engineering

July 05, 2018

### Randles Selected to Help Pilot First U.S. Exascale Computer

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

