

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Kunshan ECE Master’s Team Wins Dell Innovation Competition

February 11, 2020

Female engineers led research in heterogeneous data centers and simplified
operations

At the conclusion of a nearly two-month long computer engineering contest, a
team of students at Duke Kunshan University (DKU) emerged as the strongest in
the Dell Women in Technology-Innovation Stars Competition, winning first prize
for its work on heterogenous data centers. The students are in their first
year of Duke’s international Master of Engineering (MEng) program in
Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE), which includes a year of study at
DKU followed by a year at Duke ECE, said professor Xin Li, who directs the
program.

The competition encourages female engineering students to pursue their career
dreams and speak up for technological innovation. Though both men and women
can compete, teams must be led by female students.

Five teams, hailing from Shanghai Jiaotong University, Duke Kunshan University
and Shanghai University of Science and Technology, competed. Three teams
advanced to the finals, including two from DKU. In the final challenge, each
team chose from topics provided by Dell Technology Group’s China Research
Institute and delivered final presentation on the topics at the end of three
weeks. One team from DKU chose "heterogeneous data centers" while the other
chose "simplified operations."

Heterogeneous data centers evolve from many generations of servers and
hardware configurations. Large IT companies like Google, Amazon and Alibaba
have to develop strategies to deal with the resulting variances in processing
speeds and capacities and improve productivity. Siting Su, Zhening Zhang and
Yilin Li’s team proposed ideas for optimizing the existing heterogeneous data
center software from both the operating system level and the execution
framework level.

Xiaozhao Liu and Wei Xue's group chose to research simplified operation. The
group compared the advantages and disadvantages of mainstream smartphone
authentication methods and then implemented its own identity authentication
through visual stimulation and eye movement tracking using iOS components and
iPhone’s True Depth camera.

> In January 2020, Su, Zhang and Li’s team won the first prize "Innovation
> Star," while Liu was deemed the "Presentation Star."

The review committee, composed of 10 senior experts from Dell China Research
Institute, evaluated each team’s performance on research quality, innovation
ability, teamwork, technology application and understanding of the technology.
In January 2020, Su, Zhang and Li’s team won the first prize "Innovation
Star," while Liu was deemed the "Presentation Star."

Liu expressed gratitude to Dell for the mentorship and advice on professional
development that its experts provided over the course of the competition, and
said that the encouragement shown to female programmers like herself, by a
well-known technology company like Dell, made her feel even more determined to
develop her skills and become an excellent engineer.

More News From Duke ECE

## Related News

June 18, 2018

### New Graduate Program in Electrical and Computer Engineering at Duke and
Duke Kunshan Universities Aims to Prepare Global Tech Leaders

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

