

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Durham DEID Project Wins Statewide Award

February 18, 2015

Determined to use their engineering skills to support their local Durham
community, a group of Duke students received enough support in return to win a
$10,000 grant for their project.

The award comes from the State Employees Credit Union (SECU) Emerging Issues
Prize for Innovation competition sponsored by the Institute for Emerging
Issues (IEI) at North Carolina State University. The contest challenged
collegiate students from North Carolina to creatively address social, economic
and health issues affecting the state.

The project from Duke Engineers for International Development (DEID) proposes
to find an engineering solution to the large amount of litter that accumulates
in Ellerbe Creek and flows into Falls Lake, a local source of drinking water.
Thanks to the numerous votes that rolled in from the Durham community, the
proposal won the “Fan Favorite” award of $10,000.

“This year is DEID’s 10th anniversary and it has always done international
projects,” said Aibi Janat, a sophomore studying computer science and
statistics and one of the project’s co-leaders. “But we thought why not use
our skills to try to create something here in Durham?”

With the help of their mentor David Schaad, professor of civil and
environmental engineering, the group of 15 students spent the first part of
the semester contacting non-profit organizations in Durham and asking what
projects they needed help with.

After settling on Ellerbe Creek’s litter problem, the students began reviewing
ideas for how to keep the creek clean and came up with three potential
solutions. The first involves small trash traps attached to storm drains. The
second two include trash trap spanning the creek—either several small traps in
a number of tributaries or one trap across the whole creek where several
tributaries meet.

After fleshing out each idea, the team plans to settle on a solution to
present at the Clinton Global Initiative University conference in March, where
they will be able to get feedback from experts on their plan. Their goal is to
have the design finalized and ready to implement by the end of the semester.

“Depending on our final design, $10,000 may not be enough to cover the cost of
materials for our project,” said Elsie Ling, a sophomore studying electrical
and computer engineering and computer science and co-leader of the project.
“So we’re still fundraising and looking for other grants to apply for. The
advantage of doing a local project, though, is that we’re here, it’s ongoing
and we’re dedicated to finishing the project regardless of the timeframe.”

If interested in helping the DEID team complete its Ellerbe Creek project,
donations can be made at http://sites.duke.edu/deid/donate/.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

