

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Dzirasa named to the National Academy of Medicine

October 19, 2021

Kafui Dzirasa is a psychiatrist and engineer examining the role of brain
electricity in mental health disorders

This story originally appeared on the Duke University School of Medicine
website.

Kafui Dzirasa, MD, PhD, the K. Ranga Rama Krishnan Associate Professor in the
Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, has been elected to the
prestigious National Academy of Medicine (NAM). Election to NAM is considered
one of the highest honors in the fields of health and medicine and recognizes
individuals who have demonstrated outstanding professional achievement and
commitment to service.

Dzirasa is a psychiatrist and engineer examining the role of brain electricity
in mental health disorders. His research involves using engineering approaches
to uncover how changes in brain circuits lead to psychiatric illness,
including depression, bipolar disorder, and addiction. He aims to develop new
devices to repair brain circuits in individuals suffering from these
devastating illnesses. Dzirasa was selected to NAM in recognition of his
seminal contributions to the neuroscience of emotion and mental illness; for
pioneering methods for massively parallel neural recordings and analysis
thereof in mice; and for contributions to society through science policy and
advocacy, a commitment to mentoring, and support for efforts to build a
diverse and inclusive scientific workforce, according to the Academy.

“I want to extend my congratulations to Dr. Dzirasa on this well-deserved
honor. His election to the National Academy of Medicine is one more in an
impressive list of distinctions that recognize his important and pioneering
accomplishments as a physician-scientist, mentor, champion for diversity and
inclusion, and advocate for the underserved,” said Mary E. Klotman, MD, Dean,
Duke University School of Medicine.

New members to the National Academy of Medicine are elected by current members
through a process that recognizes individuals who have made major
contributions to the advancement of the medical sciences, health care, and
public health. Dzirasa is one of 100 new members elected this year.

“It is my privilege to welcome this extraordinary class of new members. Their
contributions to health and medicine are unmatched —they’ve made
groundbreaking discoveries, taken bold action against social inequities, and
led the response to some of the greatest public health challenges of our
time,” said National Academy of Medicine President Victor J. Dzau. “This is
also the NAM’s most diverse class of new members to date, composed of
approximately 50% women and 50% racial and ethnic minorities. This class
represents many identities and experiences — all of which are absolutely
necessary to address the existential threats facing humanity. I look forward
to working with all of our new members in the years ahead.”

Established originally as the Institute of Medicine in 1970 by the National
Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of Medicine addresses critical
issues in health, science, medicine, and related policy and inspires positive
actions across sectors. NAM works alongside the National Academy of Sciences
and National Academy of Engineering to provide independent, objective analysis
and advice to the nation and conduct other activities to solve complex
problems and inform public policy decisions. The National Academies of
Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine also encourage education and research,
recognize outstanding contributions to knowledge, and increase public
understanding of STEMM. With their election, NAM members make a commitment to
volunteer their service in National Academies activities.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

