

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Elizabeth Bucholz Wins Alumni Distinguished Undergraduate Teaching Award

May 5, 2016

The only Trinity College of Arts & Sciences teaching award determined by
students

Elizabeth Bucholz was named this year's winner of the Alumni Distinguished
Undergraduate Teaching Award at the annual Trinity College Teaching, Advising,
Diversity and Leadership Awards. The award is the only Trinity College
teaching award determined by students.

Bucholz is a University Lecturer and has served as the associate director of
undergraduate studies for the biomedical engineering (BME) department for the
past two years. She has been teaching for the department for over five years,
having graduated from Pratt with a PhD in BME in 2008 from the Center for In
Vivo Microscopy under the guidance of Dr. G. Allan Johnson.

Bucholz teaches four classes a year, and in her BME classroom, her toolbox is
ever expanding.

Recently, she started having classes play an adapted version of the word-
guessing party game Taboo—“MRI Taboo,” as she describes it. The goal? Help her
students understand nuanced terms (i.e. “transducer”) by relating them to
other key concepts covered in class.

“It’s sort of my philosophy, I think. I want to create connections to the
material and make sure the students care about it,” says Bucholz, associate
director of undergraduate studies in BME. “That’s my goal, to make them
excited and interested. And, hopefully, that will help retention.”

Creativity has always permeated her teaching. When Bucholz first shared with
other faculty her idea to explain CTs using flashlights, she received a lot of
questioning looks.

Bucholz went through with her plan and found it made class engaging for
students and herself. Now, whenever she sees or brainstorms a relatable
demonstration, she doesn’t hesitate to use it. Which explains the bike tire
she borrows from the physics department each year, rotating it to mimic an MR
signal for her students.

“Some kids are like, ‘Why are you bringing your (bicycle tire) in?’” she says.
“And then I show them, and they say, ‘Oh my gosh, that’s really cool.’”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

