

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Studying Energy at Duke Readied 2018 Forbes ‘30 Under 30 in Energy’ Awardees
for Success

April 11, 2018

Fourteen Duke graduates were named to this year's Forbes '30 Under 30' list,
including three in the energy category

_From the Duke University Energy Initiative_

As Duke seniors prepare to graduate in May, there’s another notable class of
2018 filled with Blue Devils. It’s Forbes’s annual “30 Under 30” list, which
recognizes up-and-coming entrepreneurs and innovators in industry. Fourteen
Duke grads were named to this year’s list, including **three inthe energy
category**. Congratulations to **Karim Khalil** , **Hannah Sieber** , and
**Scott Martin** , who share their alma mater’s commitment to an accessible,
affordable, reliable and clean energy future.

Having first studied mechanical engineering as an undergrad at Duke, **Karim
Khalil** (a 2012 graduate of the **Pratt School of Engineering** ) is now well
on his way to his third degree in the discipline as a Ph.D. candidate at MIT,
where he co-founded **Infinite Cooling** with fellow graduate student Maher
Damak and faculty member Kripa Varanasi. Infinite Cooling aims to reduce the
considerable water consumption of power plants by using electrical fields to
capture and recycle water vapor from evaporative cooling tower systems. The
technology promises both economic gains and increased sustainability—and, in
some areas of the United States, a solution for the costly regulatory burden
of water vapor plume curtailment.

The startup has won many awards, including the **2018 Rice Business Plan
Competition**, where Infinite Cooling was awarded nearly $500,000 in prizes.

Khalil cites his experience in Duke’s interdisciplinary **Energy and
Environment certificate program** as helping him to understand the
complexities of effecting change in the energy sector. “Technology is one part
of the story,” he says, “but you need a policy framework that can be conducive
to positive change in the energy space... [At Duke] I was exposed to energy
from all different angles, not just the technical side.”

The foundation for Khalil’s expertise on “the technical side” was laid via a
wide array of initiatives at the Pratt School of Engineering, including
**Summer Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU)** and the **Pratt
Research Fellows** program. Through first-hand exposure to cutting-edge energy
research, he says, “I gained my motivation for looking at sustainable energy
solutions.”

“There are so many creative things we can do and angles to attack the problem
from,” he adds. “There’s no shortage of problems to solve.”

For **Hannah Sieber** (a 2013 graduate of **Trinity College of Arts&
Sciences**), co-founder and COO of **EcoFlow Tech** , reliable access to
energy is the core problem, and also a matter of principle—as Hannah says,
“Energy is an axiom of equality.” As a sophomore at Duke, Sieber joined a
**DukeEngage** project in Nicaragua, working with women in small communities
across the country to assess their business development needs. Among the needs
she discovered, energy access was perhaps most starkly illustrated—regular
power outages limited use of typical business tools like computers and phones,
but also compromised crucial infrastructure, rendering water pumps and medical
equipment temporarily inoperative.

EcoFlow Tech’s first product to market, the RIVER mobile power station, is
designed to fill such service gaps, and the company has made its corporate
mission to “foster inclusion and help raise standards of living in areas of
the world where power shortages stunt growth and development.” Sieber credits
a range of Duke experiences—from DukeEngage to working in Durham Public
Schools as leader of the Duke chapter of **One Laptop per Child** —with
strengthening her desire for community engagement and social impact. Through
her involvement with organizations like the **Duke Association for Business
Oriented Women** and the **Coach K Center on Leadership and Ethics** , she
connected those impulses with an entrepreneurial spirit.

Sieber double-majored in **Asian and Middle Eastern studies** and
**international comparative studies** at Duke. Her coursework introduced her
to the interrelation of food systems and energy systems, as well as the impact
of energy on cultural trends in China, among other topics. She moved to China
shortly after graduation, and now splits time between San Francisco and
Shenzhen as EcoFlow Tech readies two more industry-first products for release
this year.

**Scott Martin** (a 2014 graduate of the **Pratt School of Engineering** )
launched his career a little closer to campus—he’s right down the road here in
Durham. Like Khalil, he majored in mechanical engineering and earned the
Energy and Environment certificate. But he developed his interest in energy at
an early age. Growing up in Colorado, he attempted to build a solar-powered
car as part of the Junior Solar Sprint program. “That was the first time I
really got emotional about technology not working,” he recalls with a laugh.

Now, as a principal with **8 Rivers Capital** , he’s been tasked with making
technology work on a much larger scale as he works on the implementation of
the firm’s NET Power project outside of Houston. Currently in its testing
phase, the project uses an innovative carbon capture technique called the
**Allam Cycle** to generate low-cost, emissions-free electricity from carbon-
based fuels, with the captured CO2 serving as a working fluid.

8 Rivers calls it a “moon-shot project,” and if it seems unlikely that the
technology implementation of such an endeavor would be entrusted to someone so
young, it’s no less so than the manner in which Martin was initially hired. As
a senior at Duke, he broke his hand, impeding his ability to conduct
electrofuels research as a Pratt **Grand Challenge Scholar**. “I couldn’t
write much, couldn’t type much,” Martin says, “but it really made me focus on
getting to know people.”

During his final semester, Martin’s scholarship funding helped him to attend a
conference at MIT, where he hoped to connect with a small company after
interning with larger organizations like GE and NASA. As he waited in line for
a restroom at the conference, an 8 Rivers representative noticed the Duke
affiliation listed on his nametag and invited him to check out the firm, then
in the startup phase. The encounter led to a series of interviews over the
course of Martin’s post-graduation cross-country bicycle trip. Martin wore
bike cleats off-camera for at least one Skype conversation.

Following that experience, Martin has become a champion of conference
attendance, and not just for the networking benefits. “One of the best ways
that students can see how industry and institutions behave around each
other—and how they can fit into the energy ecosystem—is by getting themselves
a seat at the table,” he says.

Martin adds that some of the most important learning at the university goes on
outside the classroom in informal conversations with fellow students and with
professors. His advice: “Don’t be afraid to be a nerd.” What he really means,
though, is that openness and curiosity are paths to discovery.

Khalil expresses a similar sentiment, encouraging undergraduates to try to
learn as much as they can from the graduate student community. And for Sieber,
the nature of the Duke curriculum has been an important factor in her path.
“Everything I did here,” Sieber says, “was part of this search for
understanding of how I wanted to have a positive impact.” The
interdisciplinary lens of her education, applied in the energy space, helped
her to realize “how global these issues were and how tackling them wasn’t
going to come from one narrow focus.”

Martin agrees. “One of the best things about Duke is that it’s always
changing,” he says. “People are open to cross-pollination of ideas and people
and opportunities and that was something I tried to take advantage of.”

Duke’s **interdisciplinary institutes, initiatives, and centers** embody the
university’s commitment to such cross-pollination. Khalil, who graduated
during the Energy Initiative’s first year of existence, praises the “formal
community” around energy that the organization now provides. These days, more
than 1.5K students are enrolled in energy courses across the university
annually.

As an interdisciplinary hub for all things energy at Duke, the Energy
Initiative helps connect students to energy opportunities sponsored by schools
and units across the university. The Initiative has also developed new
programming (including a diverse slate of events, field trips, and other
opportunities) and supports student-led activities like **Energy Week at
Duke**. It serves as home to a Bass Connections theme that invites all Duke
students to **take part in energy and environment research** and is
cultivating a university-wide network of energy alumni (currently housed **on
LinkedIn** ) to add value for Duke students even after they graduate.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

