

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Engineering Student Works with Team Designing Isolation Chamber for COVID-19
Patients

June 1, 2020

The Class of 2020 graduate also earned Duke's Innovation & Entrepreneurship
Certificate to complement his engineering degree

_This article originally appearing on the website of theDuke Innovation &
Entrepreneurship Initiative:_

Max Sondland E’20 was on spring break when he learned of the changes Duke was
implementing for the remainder of his final semester at Duke in response to
the COVID-19 pandemic—changes that would prevent him from finishing work on
his senior design project, a robot built for a large international
construction company.

He was devastated to have to halt work with only the final stretch remaining.
But then his professor, Neal Simmons, contacted Max and his project partner,
Dimitrios Bailas, to ask if they’d like to help out remotely with a different
project he was supporting as part of Duke’s COVID-19 Engineering Response
Team—a negative pressure isolation chamber to protect those treating COVID-19
patients.

> Their first assignment? Help prepare a prototype for a presentation at the
> hospital—in three hours

Led by Konstantinos Economopoulos (Surgery/BME), the project sought to develop
a tent designed to go over a hospital bed and contain the virus using a
negative pressure HVAC system to filter contaminated air exiting the tent.
Such a device would effectively protect health care workers attending COVID-19
patients, while also being portable—enabling patients to be moved within a
hospital—and usable on a large scale.

Sondland and Bailas were eager to help. Their first assignment? Help prepare a
prototype for a presentation at the hospital—in three hours. They worked
furiously to ready the prototype, and Simmons took it to the hospital for the
presentation.

The School of Nursing faculty on the project team, Jackie Vaughn and Ryan
Shaw, gave feedback and asked when an updated prototype would be ready; this
was on a Tuesday afternoon.

Sondland remembered with a smile, “Professor Simmons told them, ‘The students
will have it to you by Thursday.’”

Since then Sondland and Bailas have been working full-time on the project,
called COVIAGE, along with fellow engineering students Ben Wesorick, Theresa
Thompson, Kanishka Patel, Shikha Sharma, and Yaas Bigdeli. Working remotely,
every two days they would provide a new prototype, followed by another round
of workshopping and iterating.

For Sondland, the project’s emphasis on focusing on the problem and the needs
of the user (the team drew on interviews with dozens of nurses) drew on what
he’d learned in the I&E Certificate program.

Sondland, a Portland, Oregon, native who grew up passionate about building
things and came to Duke to study mechanical engineering, started the I&E
Certificate to complement his engineering degree with a business side.

The Duke in Silicon Valley program he participated in during the summer after
his first year showed him that “some of the best entrepreneurs were engineers
who saw something they could build,” he said. “It was eye-opening to see that
combination of business, entrepreneurship, and startup culture with
engineering.”

When Sondland asked his I&E senior capstone professor, Aaron Dinin, to skip
class in order to work on the COVIAGE tent, Dinin didn’t hesitate to give him
permission. “This is exactly what we want our I&E students doing,” Dinin said,
“building upon what they’ve learned to identify problems, take action, and
make a difference.”

> “Max’s dedication and innovation have had a real and immediate impact on
> society. It’s been fun and invigorating working with such energetic and
> committed students.”
>
> Neal Simmons  
> Gendell Family Associate Professor of the Practice

Simmons, Gendell Family Associate Professor of the Practice at Duke, is
similarly impressed by Sondland and the other Duke Engineering students who
have stepped up to work on COVIAGE and other projects in response to the
pandemic. “Max’s dedication and innovation have had a real and immediate
impact on society,” he said. “It’s been fun and invigorating working with such
energetic and committed students.”

Next steps for the team include applying for emergency-use authorization from
the FDA, working on IP issues, and hopefully deploying the device for use at
Duke in the next couple of weeks, then expanding its use to other hospitals.

As for Sondland’s next steps, the investment banking job awaiting him has
moved its start date from July to January due to the pandemic—“Pretty perfect
timing for this project,” he noted. In the last couple of years, he had
thought perhaps an engineering future didn’t make sense for him.

“But this project showed me the real-world value of my engineering education,”
he said. “Doing this has really shown that engineering can be fun, it can be
helpful, there are a lot of useful things that I can do to apply it.”

## Keep Exploring

  * COVID-19 Engineering Response Team »
  * Duke's I&E Certificate »
  * Duke Engineering Entrepreneurship (EngEn) »

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

