

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Engineering a New Narrative

November 1, 2017

Duke biomedical engineers are creating unique tools geared toward women's
health to address global health disparities

In the bustling neighborhoods in Lima, Peru, it’s common to see bright pink
trailers parked by the side of the road. Although these vehicles stand out
because of their vibrant hues, the white inscription on their sides also draws
a passerby’s attention: _Todas las mujeres merecer tiempo para cuidarse_.

### From Duke BME Magazine

Explore the Fall 2017 issue

"All women deserve time to take care of themselves."

These cheery trailers are mobile clinics sponsored by Peru’s La Liga Contra el
Cancer, or The League Against Cancer, which uses them to help screen women for
diseases like cervical cancer and breast cancer. The healthcare workers who
run the clinics park the trailers in one location for a week before moving to
another district in the sprawling city.

Although the trailers’ mobility offers greater healthcare access to women
around Lima, the clinics are limited in the services that they can provide. If
screening flags a potential problem, "More than half of the women are lost to
follow-up because it is difficult for them to get to a hospital," says Dr.
Gino Venegas, former director of La Liga Contra el Cancer.

**Nimmi Ramanujam** , the Robert W. Carr Jr. Professor of Biomedical
Engineering at Duke University and director of Duke’s Global Women’s Health
Technologies Center, a joint center between the Pratt School of Engineering
and the Duke Global Health Institute, has devoted herself to fixing this
problem. With a network of collaborators, from local caregivers to Duke
faculty and students, she’s creating low-cost medical tools designed for women
in settings with limited resources.

The poster child for Ramanujam’s research is the Pocket Colposcope, a compact
tool being developed to enable healthcare workers to both screen for and
diagnose cervical cancer without expensive imaging equipment.

**Building a Pipeline**

Through the DukeEngage outreach program in Orange County, California, student
mentors from Duke University teach engineering and problem-solving skills to
middle school girls in collaboration with Girls Inc., a local non-profit.
Nimmi Ramanujam has also launched similar collaborative projects in Kenya,
Guatemala and India, where Duke mentors teach students in energy poor
communities how to build renewable energy flashlights to improve the
efficiency of their daily activities.

Ramanujam’s program in Kolkata, India follows this model, but with one crucial
difference — many of the students in the program are also young mothers. To
Ramanujam, this program embodies the purpose of the Global Women’s Health
Technologies Center, which aims to educate women about the intersection of
‘light,’ technology and health by providing the students with a novel way to
engage in engineering. “Engineering can be as pervasive as music, and these
projects are ways for women and girls to express themselves in a new way,”
says Ramanujam.

“Cervical cancer is a disease of excess mortality. This is the one cancer that
can be prevented through well-established interventions, and if these
interventions were available to all women I believe the cervical cancer
mortality rate would be zero,” says Ramanujam. “The Pocket Colposcope is our
first step towards bringing complex services traditionally offered at hard-to-
reach referral settings to primary care.”

Traditional colposcopes are bulky magnifying devices with cameras that allow
doctors to examine a woman’s vagina and cervix for signs of cancer if a Pap
smear shows an abnormal result. During a gynecological exam, doctors first use
a speculum to spread the vaginal walls. A colposcope is then used to visually
check for abnormalities.

Shaped like a tampon and packing the performance of a high-end clinical
colposcope, the Pocket Colposcope re-imagines the way a gynecological exam is
performed compared to both traditional and other redesigned, low-cost
colposcopes on the market. Rather than visualizing the cervix from the
outside, the tool is slender enough to be used inside the speculum. Due to the
camera’s proximity to the cervix, the Pocket Colposcope works effectively with
consumer-grade LEDs and a five-megapixel camera in lieu of high-end
components, making it both cheaper and lighter than traditional colposcopes.
Working with Robert Miros at 3rd Stone Design to finalize the design, the team
has the cost down to about $500 and weight under half a pound, making it ideal
for use in mobile screening vans.

So far, Ramanujam, Dr. John Schmitt, a professor of obstetrics and gynecology
in the Duke University School of Medicine, and their collaborators have
implemented the Pocket Colposcope with over 500 women in seven sites on four
continents. Ramanujam and her team are working with Duke electrical and
computer engineering professor Guillermo Sapiro to develop smart algorithms
that bring clinical expertise in image interpretation to the community level.
And, in another effort to ensure women receive effective treatment in the
community setting, she is collaborating with Duke BME’s David Katz to develop
a novel “liquid scalpel” as a low-cost therapeutic that promises to be as
effective yet significantly more accessible than standard-of-care ablative
techniques for treating lesions in low-resource settings.

As Ramanujam and her team devise a model to commercialize the Pocket
Colposcope, they are enlisting help from students from interdisciplinary
backgrounds through Duke’s collaborative Bass Connections program. In March
2017, students working on the Pocket Colposcope Bass Connections team traveled
with team leaders to Lima to speak with doctors, midwives in mobile clinics
and biomedical engineers to discuss how the tool should be implemented into
Peru’s healthcare system.

The WHO estimates that more than 85 percent of the deaths from cervical cancer
occur in low- and middle-income countries. That does not mean, however, that
it’s absent from the United States. Each year more than 12,000 American women
are diagnosed with the disease—and more than 4,000 die from it.

“When we discuss global health, my concern is that we focus on countries
outside the US, even though we still have issues with cancer mortality in
medically underserved communities here at home,” says Ramanujam. “We need to
find ways to fix that. We need to invest in low-cost, high-quality
interventions that can not only empower primary caregivers, but also improve a
woman's experience during her gynecological exam.”

Toward that end, Ramanujam’s team has more recently developed a tampon-like
introducer called the Calla for the Pocket Colposcope that can make the entire
exam speculum-free, particularly for women who have never had a gynecological
exam or are afraid of the speculum. A slimmer version of the Pocket Colposcope
can be positioned through the Calla, which is then inserted either by a care
provider or the woman herself into the vagina to provide reliable views of the
cervix.

Ramanujam is using the Calla in an advocacy project to raise women’s awareness
of their reproductive anatomy and cervical cancer through a collaboration with
Duke Center for Documentary Studies director Wesley Hogan, Franklin Humanities
Institute director Deborah Jenson and School of Medicine faculty Megan Huchko
and Gita Suneja. The idea is for a woman to be able to explore her anatomy in
the comfort of her home in order to understand both what her cervix looks like
and the importance of cervical health and cervical cancer prevention.

Beyond developing new technologies, Ramanujam is focusing on what she can do
as a biomedical engineer and educator to encourage women to be the next
generation of technology leaders for women’s health. “Ultimately, we’d like to
increase our pipeline of researchers and students who can design technologies
that improve women’s lives,” says Ramanujam. “We’re encouraging our students
to actively engage with young women to show them how engineering can impact
women’s health.”

## HIV Prevention with Women’s Needs in Mind

Empowering women is critical to any attempt to improve healthcare on a global
scale, agrees Ramanujam’s colleague, **David Katz** , the Nello L. Teer, Jr.
Professor of Biomedical Engineering and Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology
at Duke. In fact, as Katz often says, “Women’s health _is_ global health.”

“A woman’s own personal and reproductive health often affects the health of
her children and of her partner,” he notes. “Women across the globe are
disproportionately affected by the challenges of sexually transmitted diseases
and limited access to screening, and the ramifications from these issues can
extend to the entire family.”

Since starting at the university in 1994, Katz has applied biomedical
engineering to the science of reproductive biology and medicine – focusing on
diagnostics and treatments that empower women to protect themselves against
sexually transmitted infections such as HIV, the virus that causes AIDS, as
well as on contraception. Prior to his arrival at Duke, Katz had become an
authority on advancing methods of contraception and understanding, diagnosing
and treating fertility and infertility.

Today, more than 36 million people around the world are living with HIV/AIDS.
Most of them live in low- and middle-income countries, and most of them are
young women: according to the United Nations, females make up 60 percent of
the HIV cases in people between the ages of 15 and 24.

In the HIV/AIDS research and development community, there is emphasis upon
prevention (termed pre-exposure prophylaxis – “PrEP”) as well as cure. Condoms
are effective if they are used, but their use is not widespread typically not
controlled by the woman. Vaccine development continues, but an effective one
is not on the near-term horizon.

> “Women’s health is global health. A woman’s own personal and reproductive
> health often affects the health of her children and of her partner.”

There is currently a pill containing anti-HIV drugs which, if taken
diligently, can reduce the likelihood of HIV infection. This is a major
advance, but missed pills reduce effectiveness more for women than men, and
there are other drawbacks, including digestive issues and pain.

Globally, there is a need for multiple options for HIV/AIDS prevention, and
success will not be a one-size-fits all result. Katz’s work has a large focus
upon topically acting anti-HIV drugs, called microbicides, and emphasizing
those that women can apply very soon before sex––“on-demand” products.
Microbicide products could take several forms, including gels, dissolving
tablets, films and intravaginal rings, as well as injections and implants, to
provide women the choice of a method that works best for them.

When a woman has unprotected sex with a man who is HIV-positive, the virus in
his semen comes into contact with the mucosal surface in her reproductive
tract. From there, the virus migrates below the top epithelial layer of cells
in her vagina, where it can infect its target cells.

Microbicide products could create both a chemical and physical barrier between
the virus and mucosal surface, making it difficult­­––if not impossible––for
infectious virus to pass through and reach the infectable cells. Creating such
products is, in part, an engineering design problem, says Katz. And part of
the design process is behavioral as well as biological.

“A big question is understanding what women prefer to put in their bodies for
protection,” says Katz. “For example, some women prefer condoms because they
provide on-demand pregnancy protection, but others prefer to get a shot of a
progestin that offers long-lasting protection. Different people want different
things, and we’re trying to accommodate that.”

**From Bench to Publication**

In August, Robert Morhard and his lab mates celebrated the first publication
from their project, which appeared online in Nature: Scientific Reports. In
this study, the researchers combined ethanol with the ethyl cellulose to
address the limitations of ethanol-based tumor ablation. Their results showed
that the ethyl cellulose-ethanol injections caused a complete regression of
100% of tumors in their experimental models. These results effectively
illustrated a proof-of-concept for the treatment method, allowing the
researchers to move forward as they consider new ways to optimize this
technology for use as a potential alternative to surgical treatment in
developing countries.

Originally trained as a mechanical engineer, Katz draws on his expertise in
fluid mechanics to study how microbicides migrate once they are in the body.
Through mathematical modeling and in vitro and in-vivo experimental studies,
Katz and his students examine how microbicides distribute after women place
them in their vagina, how the anti-viral compounds react to vaginal fluids and
semen, and how well they stay in place during sex to ensure constant
protection.

Some of this work involves developing and applying new imaging instruments, in
collaboration with **Adam Wax** , a BME professor at Duke. Those instruments
are being used both on the bench in laboratory studies and in clinical imaging
studies in women. They measure details of the distributions of products such
as gels, the molecules which are delivered, and structural details of the
tissue into which the molecules migrate. Wax’s expertise in conceiving,
creating and applying new optical imaging devices is combined with Katz’s
expertise in mechanical design to tailor the instruments to particular demands
of the imaging, for example detailed in vivo imaging within the reproductive
tract in women.

“Microbicides are tricky. Not only do we need to understand the pharmaceutical
side of these compounds, we also need to understand how they interact with the
physiology of women and the behavioral science associated with the willingness
to use them,” says Katz. “For example, behavioral studies have shown women are
less willing to use a microbicide if it’s really messy and difficult to
apply.”

To study these microbicides, Katz is collaborating with **Michael Lynch** , an
associate professor in BME. The team has recently focused their attention on
Griffithsin, a protein isolated from a type of red algae. Lynch began working
on the compound in his biochemical design course (BME 490), where students
learned how to refine and efficiently synthesize the protein with _E. coli_
bacteria.

Previous studies have shown that Griffithsin can efficiently bind to key
surface proteins on HIV, preventing the virus from attaching to and infecting
cells. Griffithsin is also a ‘sticky’ molecule, as it can bind to the sugar-
coated envelopes of viruses and onto the surface of the reproductive tract
with relative ease, with Katz comparing it to ‘molecular flypaper’.

“I like Griffithsin because it is intended for the on-demand user,” says Katz.
“The current topical products and microbicides that people use typically have
a bit of a time lag between when you apply them and when they become
effective. But with Griffithsin, you don’t have that problem. The virus just
collides with the molecule in the vagina, and it gets to the virus and
neutralizes it before the virus can get into the tissue.”

Currently, Lynch is working with students to refine Griffithsin to make it
more functional for a global health setting, including increasing its shelf-
life as a topical treatment and engineering variants of the molecule to be
temperature-resistant. While HIV is the current target, Lynch and his team are
also exploring how to expand the molecule’s use to potentially protect against
other viruses, including the Herpes simplex virus and human papilloma
virus––the virus that causes cervical cancer.

Although more work needs to be done before Griffithsin becomes a viable
prophylactic against HIV, Katz is determined to develop an effective vaginal
microbicide given the end goal--allowing women to gain better control of how
they protect themselves against disease.

“Many problems in medicine require engineering to solve them, as we in BME
know,” he says. “Women’s reproductive health is certainly one of them.”

## Combining Expertise to Fight Cancer

Nimmi Ramanujam’s and David Katz’s labs may be separated by a quarter-mile of
dense Duke forest, but their mutual goal of improving women’s lives has
brought them together for a new project—one that combines their expertise—to
help treat cervical cancer.

“Nimmi and I joke about why it took us so long to work together when we both
are committed to applying engineering to improve women’s health,” says Katz.
“With this project, we’re able to use my work with fluid mechanics,
biomechanics and mechanical design to extend the line of work she’s pioneered
with the Pocket Colposcope, to help treat cervical cancer once it’s
diagnosed.”

> “This is the wonderful thing about academia, where you just have these
> conversations about ideas you’re interested in, and the next thing you know
> you’re working together.”

The idea for the project came about after Rob Morhard, a PhD student in
Ramanujam’s lab, took Katz’s biofluid mechanics course in 2016. Morhard was
interested in a problem pertaining to cervical cancer––specifically how to
create a therapeutic that will treat the tumors on the surface of the cervix.

“This is the wonderful thing about academia, where you just have these
conversations about ideas you’re interested in, and the next thing you know
you’re working together,” says Katz.

Katz, Ramanujam, Morhard and other students in Ramanujam’s lab got to work
studying how they could remove the cancerous tumors from the cervix using an
ethanol-based formulation. While previous studies have shown that ethanol can
kill tumor cells, the researchers also needed a way to keep the liquid in
place: “It needs to be localized on the tumor so it can do its job,” says
Katz, “and to avoid damaging healthy tissue nearby.”

The team decided to use ethyl cellulose, which dissolves in ethanol and
increases the liquid’s viscosity, making it thicker and more effective at
ablating the tumors. But one day, as Morhard was cleaning out the storage
containers for the liquid, he made a strange discovery.

“After doing a few experiments I was cleaning out the containers and I noticed
that when I added water a white gel formed,” he says. “We hadn’t realized
until that point that since ethyl cellulose was not water-soluble that it
formed a white gel when it was mixed with water.”

This accidental discovery proved to be an advantageous development for the
treatment.

“Our main issue with this treatment is ensuring that the injected ethanol
stays localized around the injection site and that it stays in the tumor for a
long time to increase efficacy,” says Morhard. “The longer the ethanol
concentration within the tumor is elevated, the more likely the tumor cells
are to die. The fact that this ethyl cellulose-ethanol solution is
consistently effective in the treatment of tumors is likely due primarily to
this gel formation.”

Along with these positive developments, the team is optimistic about how this
new approach could be deployed in resource-limited settings worldwide. The
method could cost less than one dollar per treatment, and could be implemented
without electricity, specialized equipment or hard-to-supply consumables.
Thus, it would be useful in a multitude of healthcare settings –– including
mobile clinics that use the Pocket Colposcopes to help identify women at risk
of cervical cancer.

Although the research still has a long road to reach the clinic, the team has
established a proof-of-concept and recently published their first findings in
_Scientific Reports,_ a _Nature_ research journal. They next plan to conduct
safety trials in other scientific models, while they refine details of the
injection process and then design an injection device suitable for the same
global settings in which the Pocket Colposcope is applied.

For Ramanujam, these collaborative projects help to cement her belief in the
work biomedical engineers are conducting at Duke­­—and far beyond campus.

“I think Duke is special because we recognize that engineering is part of a
larger narrative in making the world a more equal place regarding healthcare
for women and girls,” says Ramanujam. “The culture here is one of service, and
the researchers and students embody that desire to use our work to help
others.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

