

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Entrepreneurial Insight

April 20, 2018

Lucinda Camras's startup aims to fight glaucoma

Lucinda Camras was 19 years old when her father asked her if she could help
him design a new device to help treat glaucoma. For some, this would be an
unusual request—but not for Camras, where invention was part of her family
lineage. Her father, Carl, discovered what is now the first-line drug therapy
in glaucoma and her grandfather, Marvin, invented magnetic tape recording and
is in the Inventors Hall of Fame.

Together, Camras and her father created the Camras Shunt, a device designed to
improve the success rate of glaucoma surgery by relieving eye pressure in a
controlled and predictable manner. During her time as a biomedical engineering
PhD student at Duke University, she co-founded Camras Vision to develop and,
one day, commercialize the Camras Shunt.

“Glaucoma causes irreversible blindness because it puts pressure on the optic
nerve. The only way to treat the disease is by reducing the pressure inside
the eye via medication and/or surgery,” says Camras. “Unfortunately,
medications may not sufficiently lower the eye pressure; and the more
aggressive surgeries to achieve low pressures are unpredictable with high
complication rates and, if successful, may only last 3–5 years.”

Instead, the Camras Shunt drains to a new area of the eye to avoid the major
source of device failure over time. It also has an adjustable component that
allows the eye pressure to be predictably manipulated non-invasively in the
clinic. This feature of the Camras Shunt ensures that the eye pressure is
sufficiently lowered to stop future vision loss.

“My father was a busy academic and I was still an undergrad, so I didn’t have
the time or knowledge to commercialize a device,” says Camras. “Also, we knew
that this device would require more research, so my original plan was to go to
grad school and develop the device as part of my PhD thesis. When I came to
Duke, it became clear that, since Duke did not own the intellectual property,
I would have to do something else for my thesis.”

Although Camras was unable to use the Camras Shunt as her thesis, her PhD
advisor, Duke BME’s Fan Yuan, supported her interest in entrepreneurship
outside of her thesis

work. Through this process, Camras met and worked with Dr. Bruce Klitzman, an
associate professor of surgery who is himself an entrepreneur, and Drs. Sanjay
Asrani and Rand Allingham, clinicians in the Duke University Eye Center, who
helped Camras apply for small business grants and refine the design of the
shunt. While taking the Program for Entrepreneurs course at Duke, Camras met
MBA student Robert Alfaro, who was interested in commercializing her device.
Together they co-founded Camras Vision, named to honor Camras’s father, who
passed away in 2009.

After graduating from Duke with her PhD in biomedical engineering in 2013,
Camras went to work full-time as the Chief Scientific Officer at Camras
Vision, with Alfaro serving as the company’s President/Chief Financial
Officer. They were later joined by Ray Krauss, a successful executive in the
medical device industry, who became their CEO.

Today, Camras and her team have received more than $2.5 million in small
business grants from the National Science Foundation and National Eye
Institute to develop the Camras Shunt. The company has also raised millions
from investors. With these achievements, Camras is optimistic about the impact
her decade of hard work will have. “You really need to be your own champion.
No one will care as much for what you are doing as you,” says Camras. “Saving
sight is certainly something worth championing.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

