

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# The Evolution of Genetic Engineering

November 1, 2019

A Q&A with Charles Gersbach

Charles Gersbach, the Rooney Family Associate Professor of Biomedical
Engineering at Duke University, leads a lab that is centered on developing and
applying genome engineering tools––most notably CRISPR-based technology.
CRISPR-Cas is a bacterial defense system that allows bacteria to use RNA
molecules and CRISPR-associated (Cas) proteins to target and destroy the DNA
of invading viruses. The discovery of this technique sparked a genome editing
revolution as researchers explored how the tool could be used to specifically
target and edit DNA in human cells. In the years since its discovery, Gersbach
and his lab have used this technology to study genetic diseases like Duchenne
muscular dystrophy, precisely control gene expression and even develop tools
that can make CRISPR more accurate.

###### How did genetic engineering come to be your area of research?

I knew that I wanted to go down an academic career path where I could help
advance regenerative medicine and gene and cell therapies. I wanted to work on
something that could affect a lot of different areas within bioengineering,
and I realized that gene expression was a central component of a variety of
research.

There were different wings in the building where I worked in graduate school,
each focused on regenerative medicine as it related to a particular organ
system. In different parts of the building, you could look at posters for
cardiovascular research or musculoskeletal research, or stuff pertaining to
diabetes or neurological work. All of these topics essentially involved trying
to get cells to do something interesting. As a very simplified example, if we
want cells to behave like cartilage cells, we essentially bang on them using
mechanical force and hope that they turn on the cartilage genes, and if we
want cells to behave like neurons we electrically shock them and hope that
kicks the neuronal genes into gear. In all these cases you’re applying
external stimuli and hoping that internally the right genes get expressed. If
the goal across all of these areas is to get the right genes on and off, I was
curious if there was a better or more direct technology to go in and program
gene expression.

###### CRISPR is a relatively new technology. How did that end up being the
focus of your lab’s work at Duke?

The first paper that described using CRISPR in human cells was published in
2013, so we were working with technologies that preceeded it. The first was
engineered zinc finger proteins, which could be used to modify a specific
region of the genome. At the time people were using zinc fingers to make
transcription factors that that could turn genes on and off and regulate gene
expression, but the technology was really difficult to work with so it hadn’t
really taken off, and there were only a few labs in the world that were
working with it. I thought that if I trained with one of them then the world
would be my oyster, so I trained in San Diego for three years and used that
expertise as my pitch to start a lab at Duke in 2009.

Two years after I started at Duke a new technology came out, called TALENs,
which was another tool that could make proteins to target specific sequences
in the genome. It was a lot easier to use than zinc fingers, but before it had
a chance to take off, CRISPR came along.

CRISPR is super easy to use, so my old dream that I was going to be one of the
only people in the world that knew how to do this stuff went out the door. At
the time I was thinking, “Great, I’m totally obsolete only four years into my
academic career”. Except we’d built up a lot of expertise and model systems
for using these tools, and I was lucky to have some really brilliant and hard-
working students and fellows in the lab, so we were able to quickly grab the
CRISPR reagents and use them for our own work. On January 3rd, 2013, the first
two papers using CRISPR in human cells were published online in Science, and
three weeks later we had already obtained the plasmids and done CRISPR-based
experiments in our own lab that worked. Our first CRISPR paper came six months
later.

###### Why did you choose to focus on using CRISPR to study Duchenne muscular
dystrophy?

The first project my lab started in 2009 was gene editing for Duchenne
muscular dystrophy using the zinc finger technology. DMD is the most common
inherited genetic disease, but in 2009 there really weren’t any therapies or
options available for to help people with the disease, which causes
progressive degeneration of their muscles. I was also a brand new assistant
professor, so I wanted to do something that was two steps ahead of what
everyone else was looking at, but it had to be a tangible enough goal so that
we could make clear progress, and gene editing for muscular dystrophy was in
line with those criteria.

Previously, people had looked at ways to modify stem cells and put them back
into muscle, but replacing all the muscle cells in the body isn’t really
feasible. The also had modified viruses to deliver genes to muscle, but the
gene that is mutated in this case is also one of the largest genes in the
human genome, so it doesn’t fit into typical gene therapy vectors. Instead,
the idea of fixing the copy of the gene that is already in the genome, rather
than trying to deliver it, seemed like an attractive opportunity. So we worked
on that approach, and actually used zinc fingers and TALENs until CRISPR-based
gene editing was discovered and we saw how easy it was to use.

Our work with Duchenne muscular dystrophy is ongoing. Most recently we
published a paper in Nature Medicine that showed that a single systemic
treatment could correct the DMD mutation for more than a year in mice.

###### What are the things that you can’t do today with CRISPR that you want
to be able to do?

I think it would be useful to do gene editing without cutting the genome. The
solution to that problem may involve a new version of CRISPR, or it may
involve something entirely different. But we’re learning more about these
systems every day—ten years ago it took two years to do a project involving
gene editing, and now you can do it in a week or two. There are lots of
flavors of CRISPR, where Cas9 is the most commonly used protein, but
researchers have discovered dozens of other types of Cas9s and even other
CRISPR proteins and complexes, including Cas12, Cas13, Cas14, Cas3 and even
Cascade, and each of these systems lends itself to a unique use.

###### Looking ahead with CRISPR, what are you most excited about?

The very first clinical trials for CRISPR in humans have started this year.
We’re seeing the first trials for cancer, for sickle cell disease, and for
rare, inherited forms of blindness. And we’ll have the results from those
trials in the next year or two, so that’s super exciting and definitely near
the top of the list.

I also think we’re at a place now where CRISPR has been fully integrated into
the drug development process. Not just CRISPR as a therapy, but CRISPR to make
model systems and cell lines to help design better drugs. I think CRISPR will
dramatically impact medicine in a way that is above and beyond using CRISPR
directly as a therapy. In fact, we started a company, Element Genomics, to do
this by facilitating drug development with these tools, not to necessarily use
CRISPR as the therapy. That’s subtle, so people don’t necessarily appreciate
that things like CRISPR are working in the background to make biological
research more advanced to help come up with new drugs.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

