

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Filling an AI and Materials Science Training Gap

September 21, 2020 | Elizabeth Witherspoon

Duke University awarded $3 million to develop a graduate training program at
the nexus of artificial intelligence and materials science

The National Science Foundation has awarded Duke University a $3 million,
five-year Research Traineeship grant to develop a program for graduate
students to develop expertise in using artificial intelligence (AI) for
materials science research. The aiM (AI for Understanding and Designing
Materials), program will fill a vital workforce gap by training the next
generation in the new convergent field of materials and computer science
research.

“To achieve the promise of the U.S. Materials Genome Initiative of accelerated
discovery, design and application of new materials, we must integrate the
traditional tools of experimentation, theory and computation with the emerging
tools of data science to transform the way we approach materials understanding
and discovery,” said Cate Brinson, chair of the Department of Mechanical
Engineering & Materials Science and director of aiM.

> "The development of a next-generation workforce trained at the nexus of AI
> and materials is essential." —Cate Brinson

The Materials Genome Initiative (MGI), launched in 2011, is a multi-agency
federal government effort to accelerate the development and deployment of new,
advanced materials to address a host of challenges in clean energy, national
security, health and welfare.

“The MGI promoted a paradigm shift from slow individual experiments and
computation to the beginnings of data-driven AI approaches in materials
science research,” added Brinson.

In the ensuing years, the research landscape in materials science has indeed
begun to embrace these principles in ways such as high-throughput
experimentation on novel compounds, data mining on arrays of computational
predictions and use of machine learning (ML) to optimize composite
constituents. However, the field has not yet achieved the vision of training
the next generation of materials experts to integrate AI into materials
science and discovery.

One of the keys to success in developing a workforce in this exciting domain
is recognizing its transdisciplinary nature, said Cynthia Rudin, associate
director for research and mentoring of aiM, and professor of computer science,
electrical and computer engineering, mathematics and statistical science.

“Students trained in materials science, who may be studying in materials
science, mechanical engineering, chemistry, biomedical engineering or physics,
follow core curriculum requirements in those departments. While a mathematics
course is often part of the core requirements, neither a computational nor
data science course is typically required in any major PhD program in the
U.S.,” said Rudin.

Students pursuing research at the intersection of AI and materials science are
left to individually find courses that may be relevant, yet they may be
missing prerequisites for many data science courses and often have trouble
enrolling due to high demand.

## aiM Integrates Across the Disciplines

The aiM program will train a total of 50 PhD students, funding 25 of them,
from degree programs in computer science, data science, statistical science,
and all materials disciplines including materials science, physics, chemistry,
and all engineering fields, with the goal of broadening participation of women
and other underrepresented groups.

Following individual development plans designed for each student, the aiM
program will integrate across all five years of each of their home department
PhD degree programs through specialized coursework, professional skills
development and experiential internships. Upon completion, each student will
be awarded an aiM PhD Certificate of Specialization, in addition to their PhD
degree.

aiM Fellows will join their cohort of trainees each year in a summer Boot
Camp, which will address fundamental skills in materials and statistics/data
science and professional skill modules before the start of the year. In their
first year of study, students must take foundational courses in materials and
data science, ensuring that all students have fundamental training outside
their home discipline, and a new survey course with hands-on modules
demonstrating applications of AI in materials science.

In their second year, aiM Fellows will work in cross-disciplinary pairs in a
capstone “AI in Materials”project course on customized projects based on real-
world problems that may be related to their dissertation topics. These
projects will provide invaluable experience in not only applying their growing
technical expertise, but also in practicing interdisciplinary team science, a
hallmark of their future careers.

Following the second-year project, students will do a three- or six-month
internship at a national laboratory or company partner, gaining exposure to
world-class facilities and experience in approaching real-world problems with
data-driven materials science.

Along the way, aiM Fellows will receive professional development
opportunities, such as mentoring, workshops, and experiences to develop their
leadership and communication skills. To capture and disseminate best practices
and impacts on participating students, faculty and curricula, aiM will
implement a comprehensive evaluation plan designed by Glenda Kelly, lead
evaluator, in collaboration with aiM’s leadership team.

Because of the highly interdisciplinary training the aiM program will deliver,
its leadership comprises a slate of Duke faculty experts from a wide range of
departments. In addition to Brinson and Rudin are:

  * Stefano Curtarolo, Associate Director for Internships, Professor of
    Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science and Physics
  * David Banks, Associate Director for Professional Development, Professor of
    the Practice of Statistics and Director of Statistical and Applied
    Mathematical Sciences Institute
  * Johann Guilleminot, Associate Director for Coursework, Assistant Professor
    of Civil & Environmental Engineering and Mechanical Engineering &
    Materials Science
  * Jianfeng Lu, Steering Committee Member, Professor of Mathematics, Physics
    and Chemistry
  * Jie Liu, Steering Committee Member, Professor of Chemistry
  * Gaurav Arya, Steering Committee Member, Associate Professor of Mechanical
    Engineering & Materials Science, Chemistry and Biomedical Engineering
  * Glenda Kelly, Internal Evaluator, Research Scientist, Civil &
    Environmental Engineering

## Related News

August 31, 2020

### Duke Researchers Join National Effort to Demystify Deep Learning

August 25, 2017

### Catherine Brinson: Finding Hard Answers for Soft Matter

February 15, 2017

### Cynthia Rudin: Interpretable Machine Learning for All

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

