

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Finding Purpose and Meaning in the First Year—and Beyond

September 16, 2019

New course helps Duke Engineering first-year students develop skills to thrive
in school and in life

The first semester at college changes so many things—from addresses to
relationships to knowledge. It’s a time of amazing new experiences of joy and
discovery. And, for many students, it’s a time of high stress and anxiety.

For 50 first-year students at Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering, a new
experiential course being piloted this fall is offering strategies and a
supportive network to help them flourish in college—and beyond.

> “I’d like our students to ask themselves: What does it take to make a good
> life? Not just to be a great engineer, but to live a meaningful and
> fulfilling life.”
>
> **Ravi V. Bellamkonda**  
> Vinik Dean of Engineering

The course—called **Thrive (EGR 79S)** —is part of a larger transformation of
Duke Engineering’s undergraduate curriculum aimed at developing not only
students’ technical and problem-solving skills, but their creativity and
confidence.

“I’d like our students to ask themselves: What does it take to make a good
life? Not just to be a great engineer, or a great citizen of Duke or the
world, but to live a meaningful and fulfilling life,” said Vinik Dean of
Engineering Ravi V. Bellamkonda. “The new Thrive course, I believe, is a great
way to begin the journey to answering that question.”

During the 15-week semester, students connect with other first-year
engineering students and with a faculty or staff mentor. Through small-group
discussions and activities, students learn more about themselves, build
resilience, create a community and develop personal well-being.

Research suggests these skills help make for a good transition to college life
and provide a foundation for coping with the rigors of modern engineering
education—as well as life’s ups and downs. Each course section has 10
students, and class meetings are held weekly for 75 minutes.

Some of the course’s modules were first used during the pre-orientation
program for the 2018 group of A. James Clark Scholars. The scholars, selected
from the incoming first-year class of engineering students, arrived on campus
a week before their university orientation. The theme of the program was
“Engineering Resilient Leaders.”

The week-long program was developed by David Pittman, Duke’s senior director
for student engagement in consultation with Bill Walker, director of the A.
James Clark Scholars Program at Duke.

In follow-up surveys, said Walker (himself a Duke Engineering graduate), many
Clark Scholars responded that the pre-orientation was a highlight of their
lives and was deeply meaningful.

“I found that learning about yourself and becoming self-aware is extremely
valuable,” said participant Philip Liu, now a Duke Engineering sophomore. “You
learned what your strengths are, what areas you can improve in and what
opportunities to take advantage of. This directly applies to your time at
Duke—how you’ll work in teams, how you’ll learn from professors and how to
better yourself.”

> “I found that learning about yourself and becoming self-aware is extremely
> valuable."
>
> **Philip Liu**  
>  Sophomore and A. James Clark Scholar at duke

Pittman expanded and developed the week-long program into the semester-long
Thrive course.

The response from students confirmed demand for this kind of content. Jennifer
Ganley, Duke Engineering’s director of undergraduate student affairs and a
Thrive instructor, said the 50 slots for the zero-credit course filled
quickly.

During the course, students discuss sources of stress and modes of resilience.
They will also take the DiSC personality profile and reflect on what it says
about their social identities. The course concludes with a dive into the
notion of self-compassion, and its ability to help people overcome adversity.

Key to the course, Pittman said, is generating a sense of belonging and the
ability to accept yourself as you are.

“An authentic sense of belonging is one of the keys to personal fulfillment,”
he said. “Belonging means having good relationships. Good relationships, the
literature shows, help us cope in difficult times and build resilience.”

Duke Engineering leaders hope to expand the course in future years.

“We will be looking for opportunities to offer this experience to as many
students as we can,” Walker said.

Already, it appears the course has been embraced by its students.

In most university classes, Pittman said, it’s not unusual to see students
bolt from the classroom when an instruction period ends.

The end of the first meeting of his Thrive course section, after 75 minutes of
activities and discussions related to University of Houston researcher Brené
Brown’s TED talk “The Power of Vulnerability,” was far different.

“They stayed in the room, and kept talking as a group,” he said. “They started
sharing phone numbers—making connections—and then made plans to have lunch
together. It was wonderful.”

## More About

  * First-Year Experience at Duke Engineering »

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

