

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# First Demonstration of a Working Invisibility Cloak

October 19, 2006

A team led by scientists at Duke University's Pratt School of Engineering has
demonstrated the first working "invisibility cloak." The cloak deflects
microwave beams so they flow around a "hidden" object inside with little
distortion, making it appear almost as if nothing were there at all.

A team led by scientists at Duke University's Pratt School of Engineering has
demonstrated the first working "invisibility cloak." The cloak deflects
microwave beams so they flow around a "hidden" object inside with little
distortion, making it appear almost as if nothing were there at all.

Cloaks that render objects essentially invisible to microwaves could have a
variety of wireless communications or radar applications, according to the
researchers.

The team reported its findings on Thursday, Oct. 19, in Science Express, the
advance online publication of the journal Science. The research was funded by
the Intelligence Community Postdoctoral Fellowship Program.

The researchers manufactured the cloak using "metamaterials" precisely
arranged in a series of concentric circles that confer specific
electromagnetic properties. Metamaterials are artificial composites that can
be made to interact with electromagnetic waves in ways that natural materials
cannot reproduce.

The cloak represents "one of the most elaborate metamaterial structures yet
designed and produced," the scientists said. It also represents the most
comprehensive approach to invisibility yet realized, with the potential to
hide objects of any size or material property, they added.

Earlier scientific approaches to achieving "invisibility" often relied on
limiting the reflection of electromagnetic waves. In other schemes, scientists
attempted to create cloaks with electromagnetic properties that, in effect,
cancel those of the object meant to be hidden. In the latter case, a given
cloak would be suitable for hiding only objects with very specific properties.

"By incorporating complex material properties, our cloak allows a concealed
volume, plus the cloak, to appear to have properties similar to free space
when viewed externally," said David R. Smith, Augustine Scholar and professor
of electrical and computer engineering at Duke. "The cloak reduces both an
object's reflection and its shadow, either of which would enable its
detection."

The team produced the cloak according to electromagnetic specifications
determined by a new design theory proposed by Sir John Pendry of Imperial
College London, in collaboration with the Duke scientists. The scientists
reported that theoretical work in Science earlier this year.

The principles behind the cloaking design, though mathematically rigorous, can
be applied in a relatively straightforward way using metamaterials, said cloak
designer David Schurig, a research associate in Duke's electrical and computer
engineering department.

"One first imagines a distortion in space similar to what would occur when
pushing a pointed object through a piece of cloth, distorting, but not
breaking, any threads," Schurig said. "In such a space, light or other
electromagnetic waves would be confined to the warped 'threads' and therefore
could not interact with, or 'see,' objects placed inside the resulting hole."

The researchers used a mathematical description of that concept to develop a
blueprint for a cloak that mimics the properties of the imagined, warped
space, he said.

"You cannot easily warp space, but you can achieve the same effect on
electromagnetic fields using materials with the right response," Schurig
continued. "The required materials are quite complex, but can be implemented
using metamaterial technology."

While the properties of natural materials are determined by their chemistry,
the properties of metamaterials depend instead on their physical structure. In
the case of the new cloak, that structure consists of copper rings and wires
patterned onto sheets of fiberglass composite that are traditionally used in
computer circuit boards.

To simplify design and fabrication in the current study, the team set out to
develop a small cloak, less than five inches across, that would provide
invisibility in two dimensions, rather than three. In essence, the cloak
includes strips of metamaterial fashioned into concentric two-dimensional
rings, a design that allows its use with a narrow beam of microwave radiation.
The precise variations in the shape of copper elements patterned onto their
surfaces determine their electromagnetic properties.

The cloak design is unique among metamaterials in its circular geometry and
internal structural variation, the researchers said. All other metamaterials
have been based on a cubic, or gridlike, design, and most of them have
electromagnetic properties that are uniform throughout.

"Unlike other metamaterials, the cloak requires a gradual change in its
properties as a function of position," Smith said. "Rather than its material
properties being the same everywhere, the cloak's material properties vary
from point to point and vary in a very specific way. Achieving that gradient
in material properties was a fairly significant design effort."

To assess the cloak's performance, the researchers aimed a microwave beam at a
cloak situated between two metal plates inside a test chamber, and used a
specialized detecting apparatus to measure the electromagnetic fields that
developed both inside and outside the cloak. By examining an animated
representation of the data, they found that the wave fronts of the beam
separate and flow around the center of the cloak. "The waves' movement is
similar to river water flowing around a smooth rock," Schurig said.

Moreover, the observed physical behavior of the cloak proved to be in
"remarkable agreement" with that expected based on a simulated cloak, the
researchers said.

Although the new cloak demonstrates the feasibility of the researchers'
design, the findings nevertheless represent a "baby step" on the road to
actual applications for invisibility, said team member Steven Cummer, a
professor of electrical and computer engineering at Duke.

The researchers said they plan to work toward developing a three-dimensional
cloak and further perfecting the cloaking effect.

Although the same principles applied to the new microwave cloak might
ultimately lead to the production of cloaks that confer invisibility within
the visible frequency range, that eventuality remains uncertain, the
researchers said. "It's not yet clear that you're going to get the
invisibility that everyone thinks about with Harry Potter's cloak or the Star
Trek cloaking device," Smith said.

To make an object literally vanish before a person's eyes, a cloak would have
to simultaneously interact with all of the wavelengths, or colors, that make
up light, he said. That technology would require much more intricate and tiny
metamaterial structures, which scientists have yet to devise.

Collaborators on the study included Jack Mock and Bryan Justice of Duke; John
Pendry of Imperial College London; and Anthony Starr of SensorMetrix in San
Diego, Calif. Pendry's research is supported by the United Kingdom's
Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

