

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Five ECE Seniors Earn Graduation with Departmental Distinction

May 21, 2018

Students demonstrated excellence in their areas of independent study

The Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) awarded five of
its students Graduation with Departmental Distinction, a designation which was
announced during Commencement on May 18, 2018. Lucy Zhang, Henry Yuen, Aditya
Srinivasan, Jay Doherty and Jihane Bettahi achieved the designation. Each of
these five graduates undertook independent study focusing on areas of
particular interest to them, and distinguished themselves through excellence
in their written and oral presentations to ECE faculty.

“ECE’s Graduation with Departmental Distinction committee had the pleasure of
learning about the independent research of five seniors in our department this
year, through both extensive written reports and oral presentations,” said
Associate Professor John Board, who chairs the committee. “All five students
did work that they, their advisors, and the department can be extremely proud
of. From fundamental basic materials research to projects fusing technology
and art, these students are already making important contributions to their
fields, and I am excited to see what they will do in the years to come.”

The students describe their projects in their own words below:

## Lucy Zhang

### Music Visualization in Augmented Reality

“I built two music visualizers, one web-based and one mobile-based, working
under the supervision of Dr. Leslie Collins. The first visualizer uses signal
processing and machine learning to extract and display information such as
instrument detection and genre classification. This second visualizer is a
mobile application that brings the visualization to augmented reality using
Apple’s ARKit framework; it also incorporates the effects of a user's motion
by utilizing the mobile device's built-in hardware sensors: the gyroscope and
accelerometer.

I chose the topic because I’ve always been interested in the intersection of
the arts and signal processing. It was also a great excuse to work with new
technologies I was interested in, such as ARKit.”

## Henry Yuen

### Designing a Web-Based Virtual Reality Educational Assessment Framework for
Experiential Learning

“Studying ECE, Computer Science and Education, I was fascinated by the
intersections of experiential education and technology, as the way in which
technology is often applied to classrooms is through ‘band-aid’ solutions that
are misaligned with the tenets of educational pedagogy. The potential of
virtual reality (VR) applications in the classroom has always intrigued me,
yet the technical overhead for creating VR tools has been challenging for
software developers and prohibitive for teachers.

This project aimed to blaze a path towards empowering teachers to create and
author VR experiences for their own classrooms, whereby a web-based prototype
framework was designed to allow any teacher to create assessment activities of
their choice; students would engage with these VR activities and receive
grades for them.

For this project I collaborated with Dr. David Malone and Betsy Alden, from
the Program in Education; Dr. Lisa Huettel, from Electrical and Computer
Engineering; Dr. Susan Rodger, from Computer Science; Luiz Omori, from Duke
Health; Elizabeth Evans, from Duke Digital Initiative; and Mark Everitt McGill
and Seth Anderson, from Duke OIT.”

## Aditya Srinivasan

### Designing and Implementing a Functional Hardware Description Language

“Inspired by my dual education in computer science and computer engineering, I
formulated my own programming language called Gemini, working under the
supervision of Dr. Drew Hilton. The language I created bridges the gap between
software and hardware, by allowing a circuit (the hardware part) to be
described by a program (the software part). I thought of the two as twins that
expressed the same thing albeit being different entities, hence the name
Gemini. I then wrote a compiler to transform Gemini programs into Verilog
modules.

My goal was to provide a tool for describing electronic circuits with greater
expressivity and modularity than what currently existed. I managed to achieve
this goal, and in the process discovered that many unconventional language
features are possible to implement in practice.”

## Jay Doherty

### The Effects of Voltage Stress in Carbon Nanotube Transfers

“I worked with Dr. Aaron Franklin; the Franklin research group is focused on
improving the performance of devices built out of nanomaterials instead of
traditional silicon. One of the materials the group is most interested in is
carbon nanotubes. My project was to begin to investigate the long-term
reliability of transistors made out of carbon nanotubes. Some of the questions
we had at the start were: How much electrical current can safely flow through
nanotubes without damaging them? How long will they last under this stress?

Over the course of the project, we designed many experiments lasting multiple
days that demonstrated the robustness and stability of carbon nanotubes under
electrical stress. We showed that carbon nanotubes could handle relatively
large currents for weeks at a time with no signs of degrading performance.
These are encouraging results for researchers working on carbon nanotube
sensors which would need to run continuously for many months or years. One of
the sensors they are working on in the Franklin lab is a tire pressure
sensor—it’s a good example of something that would, hopefully, always be on in
your car.”

## Jihane Bettahi

### Dynamic Online Task Planning in an Environment with Uncertain Wireless
Communication

“I worked on this project as a Pratt Fellow, and chose the topic because I was
interested in exploring robotics and doing research related to motion planning
and reinforcement learning. Working with Dr. Michael Zavlanos, I built on some
prior work that looked into the problem of a mobile robot tasked to collect
data in different regions of an environment and reliably transmit the data
gathered to a data center, while considering the constraints that 1) the robot
has a buffer of limited size to store the data collected, and 2) there is
uncertainty in the channel quality of the wireless communication network used
to transmit the data gathered to the data center.

The work, previously done in lab, proposed a solution to this problem, which
consisted of statically determining segments where the robot buffer needed to
be emptied so that it does not overflow, then executing an actor-critic
reinforcement learning algorithm on these segments to learn a motion and
communication strategy for the robot to satisfy the assigned tasks under all
the constraints. However, the solution proposed assumed that the robot
transmitted data only at some specific, fixed segments. My project consisted
of relaxing this assumption by allowing the robot to transmit data in any
segment along its execution plan, which required developing dynamic approaches
to solve the problem under the relaxed assumption.”

Study Electrical & Computer Engineering at Duke

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

