

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# A Fun, Free Crash Course on How Modern Materials Shape Our World

February 3, 2022 | Elizabeth Witherspoon

Interdisciplinary Duke researchers present virtual seminars on how
biomaterials, AI, sustainable and energy materials, and metamaterials address
societal problems

Materials science is responsible for that satisfying clack of colliding
billiard balls that sends them racing toward the corner pockets.

In the mid-19th century, billiard manufacturers still made balls from elephant
ivory. Fearing a shortage of the valuable material, they offered a reward to
anyone who could engineer a replacement material with properties that
performed like ivory, including making that satisfying clack. Inventor John
Wesley Hyatt created a substance he called celluloid, not only solving the
problem but also launching what became known as the Age of Plastics.

### Upcoming Sessions

  * **February 22 —** Nurturing Nature: Improving Health With Biomaterials
  * **March 29 —** Accelerated Materials Discovery: Partnering Artificial
    Intelligence and Computation
  * **April 26 —** Planet-Saving Science: Addressing Climate Change With
    Sustainable and Energy Materials
  * **May 24 —** Metamaterials: What Are They and What Do They Do?

Register »

Duke University alumni heard this story and others in the first of a series of
five virtual monthly seminars, called “Materials Science: Designing a Better
World,” hosted by Duke Alumni’s Forever Learning Institute (FLI) on January
25.

## Series Features Expert Duke Faculty

You can watch the recording on the Duke Alumni Lifelong Learning YouTube
channel and register for the rest of the free series to either watch live or
view later when the recordings post. Anyone in the Duke University
community—faculty, staff, students or friends—is welcome.

The spring series is a crash course in materials science and engineering from
leading researchers in the field, thanks to a collaboration between the Duke
Materials Initiative (DMI), the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical
Engineering & Materials Science (MEMS), the Duke University Energy Initiative,
Nicholas Institute for Environmental Policy Solutions and Duke’s Forever
Learning Institute (FLI).

Researchers explain what they do, how they do it, and how it impacts the world
in which we live, all in easy-to-understand lay terms. They respond to
questions from viewers in the chat and give examples from daily life, like
dental fillings, information storage, alternative energy and more.

The series kicked off fittingly with the topic, “What is Materials Science?”
It featured Cate Brinson, the Donald M. Alstadt Chair of Duke MEMS and the
Sharon C. and Harold L. Yoh III Distinguished Professor, with Stephen Craig,
the William T. Distinguished Professor of Chemistry and a Duke alum himself
(T’91). Both are experts in polymers and nanocomposites, leaders of major
grants engaged in materials discovery, and enthusiastic educators.

Next up will be sessions on improving human health with biomaterials, using
artificial intelligence to accelerate the discovery of new materials, the role
sustainable and energy materials play in addressing climate change and
environmental issues, and insights into the world of metamaterials by a global
pioneer in the field.

Browse the syllabus for links to articles, videos and podcasts.

## Reigniting a Passion for Learning

Launched in Spring 2021 to deliver high-quality virtual engagement with
alumni, FLI’s purpose is to reignite passion for learning and the sense of
being a student again by providing opportunities to hear Duke faculty explain
their research and its role in solving societal problems.

Recordings of the Spring and Fall 2021 sessions are also publicly available.

> "We are so pleased to be the stage for this broad representation of the
> incredible work Duke is doing in materials science."
>
> Jo Supernaw | Director of Engagement, Duke Lifelong Learning

For Spring 2022, Jo Supernaw, director of academic engagement for lifelong
learning in Duke Alumni Engagement & Development and lead for FLI, sought
input from Stefan Zauscher, director of the Duke Materials Initiative and a
Duke MEMS professor, on an outline of potential materials science topics, plus
suggestions of faculty to speak about them.

In the collaborative, interdisciplinary style typical of materials science at
Duke and DMI, Zauscher involved other faculty affiliated with DMI and staff.
Many emails, particularly by Brinson to line up faculty speakers, and calendar
alignments later, the series took shape.

“As the faculty collaboration which serves as a hub for sharing ideas and
resources in materials science and engineering, we were eager to help identify
compelling topics and speakers for this series,” said Zauscher. “The timing is
perfect, too, as we work to highlight Duke’s innovative work in materials
science in concert with the Duke Science & Technology Initiative (DST).

DST is one of Duke’s most important initiatives. It is a fundraising effort
designed to elevate excellence in the sciences through a faculty recruitment
and retention effort. The main themes of DST are materials science, computing,
and resilience of the body and brain.

Supernaw also collaborated with staff at Duke's Energy Initiative and the
Nicholas Institute for Environmental Policy Solutions to identify faculty and
alumni working in sustainable materials.

“The topics and speakers in this series are from across the institution,”
explained Supernaw. “We are so pleased to be the stage for this broad
representation of the incredible work Duke is doing in materials science.”

Materials Research at Duke

## Related News

September 02, 2021 | Duke Today

### NSF Creates Polymer Chemistry Optimization Center at Duke for Future
Materials

June 01, 2021

### Developing Biomaterial Implants to Improve Human Health

February 26, 2021

### Writing New Recipes for High-Performance Materials

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

