

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Gaby Katul: Modeling Non-Linear Dynamics from Flowing Fluids to Falling
Empires

April 19, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

New Duke Engineering professor Gaby Katul uses the latest insights into non-
linear dynamics to engineer resilience into systems ranging from Watersheds to
governments

Gabriel (Gaby) Katul will join longtime collaborators on the faculty of the
Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering (CEE) at Duke University
beginning August 1, 2021. Making a cross-campus move from Duke’s Nicholas
School of the Environment, Katul will build upon two of Duke Engineering’s
growing strengths—the modeling of complex, non-linear systems, especially
those related to environmental issues, and understanding why such systems fail
so as to engineer for resilience enhancement.

Katul’s research has historically focused on the physical processes that drive
water and nutrient transport throughout the soil-plant-atmosphere. While Katul
will continue to work on these pressing issues in his new engineering role, he
will also begin drawing on research into turbulent flows to develop a
fundamental mathematical understanding of disastrous failures in large,
complicated systems ranging from cavitation in plant vessels, to material
failure, to entire societies.

“In short, we’re beginning to work toward unraveling the process of disaster,”
said Katul, who has been at Duke for nearly three decades. “When organization
begins to break down, whether it be in a material’s structural stability or a
society’s, there might be a mathematical fingerprint that points to why the
system is losing its resilience. It’s a lofty goal to pursue, but I think that
engineering’s long history of understanding failure that is initiated at the
microscopic level and how it manifests itself at the macroscopic scale may
bring a new perspective to it.”

Katul’s ambitions stem from a growing understanding of turbulent flows in
nature. Often thought of in terms of the chaotic movement of water tumbling
through a riverbed or air swirling behind an airplane, the underlying
mathematics can be used to model a wide variety of seemingly unpredictable,
non-linear phenomena that are active or energetic across wide-ranging scales.

For example, Katul points to eddies in a stream appearing and disappearing for
seemingly no reason. Or how if someone opens a bathroom door rapidly, it might
introduce action at a distant location such as variations in the level of
water within the toilet. And while Katul admits that classical turbulent
systems may never be fully understood, he says that the tools being developed
by theoretical physicists to model them are now maturing to the point where
they could offer cross-fertilization of ideas to other fields of research.

> "I want to explore the fundamental physical constructs of systems toeing the
> edge of their doom to find signatures of when they approach the breaking
> point so that perhaps we can learn to avoid the final straw altogether."
>
> \- gaby katul

“I’ve been very happy in the Nicholas School and have had a great career
there, but I see my work being more effective in engineering over the next
decade or two,” said Katul, who studied structural engineering as an
undergraduate. “And Duke Engineering is small enough to easily see connections
with colleagues whose work could fit perfectly with these ideas.”

Katul is especially excited about the prospect of working with some of Duke
Engineering’s newest hires. Andrew Bragg, an assistant professor in CEE,
focuses on fluid dynamics—especially turbulent flows—and, Katul says, is among
a handful of people who understands the rigorous mathematics behind turbulence
and the cutting-edge physics that could be thrown at his own research. Johann
Guilleminot, another assistant professor in CEE, has been working on how to
reduce complexity of large systems (coarse-graining and homogenization) and
implement this reduced-complexity representation in numerical simulations.
Manolis Veveakis, an assistant professor of geomechanics, is a leading expert
on mechanical responses of geomaterials to stresses at extreme conditions and
has been engaged in innovative ways of arresting material failure. Nate
Chaney, also an assistant professor in CEE, is a leading researcher on how
soil moisture and water’s movement through large watersheds when aggregated is
‘resonating’ with climate drivers.

On the topic of climate change, Katul is of the opinion that future focus
cannot be on just averting the worst of its effects but planning for how to
adapt to them. Nature offers intriguing engineering solutions to numerous
problems where minimizing energy expenditure is essential for survival.

“Engineers have used pumps for thousands of years to move water from place to
place, but trees use plumbing that is entirely dependent on surface tension
with no pumping,” said Katul. “Perhaps studying nature might enable newer,
less energy-dependent designs that can help prepare society for the challenges
ahead.”

Katul was hired onto the faculty of the Nicholas School in 1993. But even
then, engineering was a large part of his work. Engineering faculty were part
of the search committee for the position that lead to his hiring, and Katul
immediately received one of the first secondary faculty appointments in Duke’s
CEE department.

While Katul currently teaches two courses, one on watershed hydrology and
another on the calculus of sustainability in complex societies, he says he may
tweak the former to include engineering dimensions of water resources and
revamp the latter as a science of disaster course.

“Whether it’s an ant colony or national government, organizations typically
respond to problems with an increase in complexity, which is also known as
Tainter’s law,” said Katul. “At some point, the system becomes so stratified
or hyper-bureaucratic that investing in another niche layer only yields minor
returns and it thus becomes fragile. That’s the signature of the system losing
resilience, and what ends up triggering the eventual cascading collapse
becomes less important. I want to explore the fundamental physical constructs
of systems toeing the edge of their doom to find signatures of when they
approach the breaking point so that perhaps we can learn to avoid the final
straw altogether.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

