

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Gall Named Associate Dean for Entrepreneurship

April 22, 2019

Ken Gall has been named Duke Engineering's first associate dean for
entrepreneurship to help faculty, staff and students positively impact the
world through their work

Ken Gall has been appointed Duke Engineering’s first associate dean for
entrepreneurship, effective June 1, 2019. This new position will help the
school live out the fundamental Duke value of “knowledge in service to
society” through a dedicated focus on helping our faculty, staff and students
positively impact the world through their work, beyond the school's current
strengths in pursuing rigorous scholarship and generating new knowledge.

In his new role, Gall will work alongside Bill Walker, the Mattson Family
Director of Engineering Entrepreneurship, and Executive-in-Residence Steve
McClelland, and in collaboration with the Duke Innovation & Entrepreneurship
Initiative, to accelerate and execute on an exciting vision for
entrepreneurship based in Duke Engineering.

Specifically, the team will work across curricular and co-curricular programs
to help Duke Engineering faculty and students expand the reach of their work
through the process of investigating, designing and delivering solutions to
societal needs.

"Ken, Bill and Steve will work in concert with and build upon the great
ongoing work of our engineering design education 'dream team' of Ann Saterbak,
Eric Richardson, Joe Knight, Paul Fearis and several other faculty in all of
our departments to help faculty, graduate students and undergraduates deliver
their design innovations to the wider community and industry, whether through
project-specific partnerships or the founding of new ventures," said Ravi
Bellamkonda, Vinik Dean of the Pratt School of Engineering.

In addition, Gall will lead a new Founder’s Track within the Master of
Engineering Management program, which begins this fall.

Since he arrived at Duke in 2015, Gall has served as chair of the Department
of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science (MEMS) at Duke. He will
continue as a professor in MEMS as well as associate director for Duke MEDx, a
joint initiative between engineering and medicine to facilitate the
development and translation of innovations for human health.

A successful entrepreneur himself, Gall has launched five medical device
companies—including Restor3D and Deep Blue Medical Advances, both Duke
startups incubated in the BRiDGE. Two of his startups have been acquired by
large public medical device companies, while the remaining are in full
operation. He is also deeply committed to supporting students interested in
design and entrepreneurship, and recently mentored a student team in the
school's First-Year Design course whose project now has a patent pending.

"I am excited to have someone of Ken’s depth and breadth of experience help
realize our vision for entrepreneurship across the school as associate dean,"
said Bellamkonda. "With the amazing team we now have in place, I believe we
have an unparalleled opportunity to build a leading program that inspires and
equips our students and faculty to become founders of initiatives,
partnerships, technologies and companies that deploy solutions to societal
challenges."

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

