

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Gautam Chebrolu: Seizure Prediction for an EEG- and EKG-Based System

January 19, 2017

Interview with BME/ECE major and Pratt Research Fellow Gautam Chebrolu

  * Major: Biomedical Engineering and Electrical and Computer Engineering
  * Project: Seizure Prediction for an EEG- and EKG-based System
  * Advisor: Professor Leslie M. Collins

**How did you know you wanted to go into engineering?**

When I was applying to schools I was interested in international relations, so
I was initially considering doing a major between BME and international global
studies or international cultural studies, because I was interested in
understanding different types of perspectives and integrating them into
something new. I chose engineering because I truly believe that I could get
the skills of engineering and apply them in different ways, and I thought it
would be best to get that skillset first and expand my knowledge of thought.

**How did you decide which project to pursue for Pratt Fellows?**

When I originally applied to Pratt Fellows the projects I was interested were
all under Leslie Collins’s name, and they were all about signal processing,
but then I met with her and she told me about other projects she was involved
in. I previously shadowed a neurologist, so I was interested in the brain-
computer interface already, but when she had a project that was focused on
seizure prediction, I jumped on the chance to work on that.

**How did you hear about the Pratt Fellows Program?**

Before I had even committed to Duke I actually reached out to someone who
connected me to his friends who were in BME and were Pratt Fellows, and then I
pursued it junior year. It was an opportunity for me to get experience in a
nationally recognized lab, and it just ensured that I was really taking
advantage of these great opportunities that were available at Duke.

**Is there any experience you had at Duke that stands out to you?**

My original goal was to do engineering, but to do it in a different context
than you would normally experience. One of the things I was inspired by was
Engineering World Health, which was another organization that I was involved
with. It really forced me to reimagine how we view donating medical devices to
low-income countries, because while we think we may be saving a bunch of other
people by giving them medical equipment, we should understand their point of
view and resources to help them build their own products. It’s all about
understanding different points of view and a different way of thinking about
the world.

****

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

