

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Genevieve Lipp: Teaching Programming from Scratch

August 8, 2019

New faculty member Genevieve Lipp specializes in teaching programming to non-
computer engineers

Genevieve Lipp will join the faculty of Duke University’s Department of
Electrical and Computer Engineering and Department of Mechanical Engineering
and Materials Science as assistant professor of the practice, beginning this
fall.

Lipp is no stranger to Duke; in fact, she earned both BS and PhD here, in the
Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science, and was introduced
to programming when running her own simulations for non-linear dynamical
systems.

She became interested in learning programming from the ground up while working
at Duke Learning Innovation by building a Java specialization course, co-
taught by ECE’s Andrew Hilton. From there, she read _All of Programming,_ the
700-page textbook by Hilton and Anne Bracy, completing the complementary
exercises and still desiring more knowledge and more practice. Hilton directed
her to the mastery learning platform for ECE 551, a graduate-level class for
prospective computer engineers without programming backgrounds, which she also
devoured. The next year, Hilton asked Lipp to co-teach ECE 551, which she has
been doing for the past several years. Together with Hilton and Bracy, she
helped translate the first third of the course into the Coursera
specialization Introduction to Programming in C.

In her new role, Lipp will spend more time engaged in innovation and research
in engineering education, including online education, in addition to her
teaching responsibilities.

Her teaching style, she said, accommodates both students who, like herself,
are starting from scratch, and also those who might know some programming but
want to learn the best approach and gain the most competency.

“One thing that levels the playing field is to identify patterns by working
problems by hand,” said Lipp—a signature requirement of the Duke ECE team’s
approach, with no shortcuts allowed. By spending appropriate time in this
offline “planning phase,” said Lipp, students learn how each line of code
influences and changes the state of the program. “We feel very strongly it’s
the best way to learn to program,” said Lipp.

> "One thing that levels the playing field is to identify patterns by working
> problems by hand."
>
> Genevieve Lipp, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF THE PRACTICE

Lipp will teach ECE 551 this fall, and expects to add a graduate-level
introductory programming class in the spring. That class, also designed for
non-computer engineers, will emphasize new applications for programming,
including assignments on financial models like portfolio planning, and will be
co-listed with Duke Engineering’s new Financial Technology (FinTech) master’s
program. Those enrolled should not expect lectures, Lipp emphasized. According
to her teaching philosophy, knowledge is constructed rather than transferred,
which is why she starts with a learning objective and helps her students
develop programming skills for themselves.

“Programming is hard,” acknowledged Lipp, and said students should come to
class expecting to be challenged. “But we can teach you to work through the
problems in the most efficient way.”

Meet New Faculty Member Neil Gong

## Related News

July 30, 2019

### Neil Gong: At the Intersection of Security, Privacy and Machine Learning

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

