

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# General Motors and Duke Team Up to Take on AV Sensor Cleaning

May 25, 2018

A team of five senior Mechanical Engineering students bring a fresh approach
to keeping cameras and LIDAR sensors clean

Earlier this year, automaker General Motors (GM) announced its intention to
start mass-producing autonomous vehicles (AV) by 2019. The cars, which will be
used for commercial ride-hailing, won’t even have steering wheels, or pedals.
It was a bold statement—but the company had bought its own Light Detection and
Ranging (LIDAR) sensor manufacturer a few months prior, and had launched a
beta AV ride-hailing service for its own employees in San Francisco just a few
months before that. In fact, ever since its acquisition of Cruise Automation
in 2016, GM had been pushing to the front of the pack in AV development.

Duke Mechanical Engineering alum Costi Shami E'13, MS'14 is a vehicle
performance engineer in GM’s AV division, working at the company’s proving
grounds in Michigan. He is also part of the company’s engineering recruitment
team. “When I come to Duke to recruit, students always have a lot of good
questions about the autonomous vehicle space, and what GM is doing to lead the
space,” said Shami.

Shami thought that it might be beneficial for his company to get a fresh
perspective on a particular area of AV design that is sometimes overlooked:
the onboard cleaning system for the vehicles’ sensors. Autonomous vehicles
navigate by using multiple sensors, including LIDAR, radar and cameras, so
it’s crucial that their surfaces can be quickly cleaned and cleared if a car
splashes through a puddle, or drives through a dust storm, or gets bombed by a
pigeon flying overhead. It would be a valuable experience for the students,
also. “This was a good way of showing the day-to-day activities that an
engineer at GM is tasked with,” said Shami. “To come up with solutions, to
think outside the box.”

> “This was a good way of showing the day-to-day activities that an engineer
> at GM is tasked with—to come up with solutions, to think outside the box.”
>
> Costi Shami, E'13, MS'14

Shami knew that with Dean Ravi Bellamkonda’s intense focus on undergraduate
design experiences, a collaborative project between GM and Duke would be well-
received; he pitched the idea to his colleagues at GM, and the company agreed
to sponsor a senior design project supervised by Neal Simmons, the Gendell
Family Professor of the Practice in Duke’s Mechanical Engineering (ME)
department. “Externally sponsored projects are particularly valuable as the
student/company interaction provides an amplified educational benefit,” said
Simmons. “These interactions offer students the opportunities to engage with
their sponsor’s engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and leadership teams to
approach sparsely defined problems and balance competing constraints found in
real world projects.”

Shami gave the five students enrolled in the course some parameters to bound
the design challenge, and they hit the ground running. “The hope was that
maybe a new set of eyes would adopt different technologies or different
implementations,” said Shami—which is exactly what happened.

“We started totally off the wall,” said student Ryan Cox, who served as the
team’s unofficial project manager. Some of them—robotic arms, spinning cloth
strips, chemical passive solutions, hydrophobic surfaces and ultrasonic
devices—were quickly discarded because of budget or time constraints. The team
pitched the remaining small field of ideas to Shami and Simmons, talking out
the merits and potential pitfalls of each and considering factors such as the
potential for scratching (LIDAR sensors can cost more than $10k apiece, and
are fragile; any abrasions that might be caused by pushing grit and grime
across their surfaces would render them unusable), the time of the cleaning
cycle, and whether a similar solution had already been explored by GM.

The idea that made it through to the prototype phase, ironically, wasn’t
completely novel; it was inspired by 1970s-era headlight wiper blades.

“This was the simplest solution. It was very elegant,” said team member Dan
Connolly. “But the application and the way we were going to adapt it and make
it self-contained, was new.”

The team, all seniors majoring in mechanical engineering, divided up to
engineer the camera and LIDAR sensor cleaning solutions: Jack Gregory served
as the structural designer for the camera solution, and Connolly for the
LIDAR; Ziad El Arab handled the pumps and hydraulics of the water systems;
Patrick Combe ran point on software and printed all of the pieces at the
Innovation Co-Lab, where he worked; Cox handled small parts and systems
integration.

The finished solutions bore little resemblance to their quirky squeegee
ancestor; they were streamlined, and their motions economical. The LIDAR
sensor cleaner, in particular, more resembled a UFO than a windshield wiper.
And the pieces were modular, meaning that they could be taken off one sensor
and attached to another. “We knew the design would have to change and adapt as
autonomous vehicles change and adapt,” said Connolly.

> "We knew the design would have to change and adapt as autonomous vehicles
> change and adapt."
>
> Daniel Connolly, E'18

“One of the key objectives I tasked the team with was to come up with
something that had both form and function. That was a major concern from a
design perspective, and from a public perception perspective,” said Shami
after evaluating the team’s final presentation. “You want to see a car driving
down the road that looks clean, that looks sleek. That was a massive strength
that their design brought to the table. It looks polished.”

Cox said that the team was pleased with the outcome also, and has thought
extensively about how their solutions could be improved further, with more
time and money. Reducing the motor size, improving the circuitry and machining
the parts, for example, could make the systems even lighter and more
aerodynamic.

“I can see this solution going somewhere,” said Cox. “I can imagine it applied
in the real world.”

more about Mechanical Engineering at Duke

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

