

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Gene Expression Could Ring Early Kidney Disease Alarm

January 25, 2022 | Michaela Kane

Stem cell model helps researchers identify potential biomarkers and
therapeutic targets for early kidney disease

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have developed a method to study how
key cells in the kidneys become injured and deformed. The new model has
revealed a significant mechanism behind severe kidney disease and pointed
toward early disease biomarkers and potential therapeutic interventions.

The study appeared online Dec. 10, 2021, in the journal ACS Chemical Biology.

“Changes in the molecular landscape of cells in health and disease can help
discover new diagnostics and therapeutic targets,” said Samira Musah,
assistant professor of biomedical engineering at Duke. “Using our lab-grown
model of kidney tissue, we’ve discovered two genetic targets that could
provide new strategies to save kidney tissues from destruction _.”_

When kidneys are healthy, they act like a filtering plant for the body,
separating toxins from nutrients and disposing of waste. But when kidney
function is impaired, toxins can back up throughout the body, leading to heart
failure, high blood pressure, neurological issues, heart attacks and even
death.

According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, kidney disease
affects more than 15 percent of the US population. However, many people are
unaware they have the disease until it is too late for noninvasive
interventions. This delay often leads to patients needing kidney dialysis and,
eventually, a kidney transplant.

To understand the mechanisms behind the widespread disease, Musah and Morgan
Burt, a graduate student in the Musah lab, have developed a model to explore
what happens when a specific type of kidney cell, called a podocyte, becomes
injured.

“Podocytes control the removal of toxins and waste from the blood,” said Burt,
who is the first author of the study. “The most severe forms of kidney disease
are usually associated with damage to these cells, which cannot regenerate. We
wanted to model the early phases of podocyte injury so we could identify
biomarkers that indicate the onset of kidney disease.”

In previous work, the Musah lab demonstrated that they could guide human
induced pluripotent stem cells to develop into mature and functional
podocytes. When healthy, podocytes have long, finger-like structures that lock
together to create a barrier to filter blood. To study the mechanics of
podocyte injury, the team introduced a chemotherapy drug called Adriamycin
that is just as toxic to the kidneys as it is to cancer.

“When we administered the Adriamycin, these finger-like structures flattened
and collapsed,” Burt said. “This mimics structural changes we observe in
patients, and once this happens, podocytes can no longer filter blood
effectively.”

In the new study, the team used their podocyte injury model to zero in on the
role of a specific transcriptional protein, called yes-associated protein, or
YAP. Having previously discovered that YAP is often highly expressed in cells
that exhibit regenerative capacities, such as human pluripotent stem cells and
liver cells, Musah wanted to use her new kidney model to see if modulating YAP
activity could help repair injury in the podocytes.

The team expected to see changes in the level of YAP in podocytes as they were
injured by Adriamycin, but instead found two surprises. While the YAP levels
remained relatively constant, the expression levels of two of YAP’s target
genes—CTGF and Cyr61—were significantly lowered.

“We found that when you injure the cells in a way that disrupts the podocyte’s
mechanics, like the collapse of the filtration structures, these downstream
gene targets were being disrupted,” Burt said. “These genes could potentially
be used as therapeutic targets or as biomarkers for early-stage kidney
disease.

Moving forward, the team wants to continue to explore the YAP signaling
pathway to better understand how the structural changes in podocytes affect
gene expression. They hypothesize that YAP and its downstream targets may play
a critical role in podocyte cell survival and response to injury. Parsing out
the specific functions of these proteins will be the subject of future
studies. The team will also continue to refine and advance their podocyte
models.

This project was supported through Duke MEDx (Medicine + Engineering at Duke),
which helps foster collaboration between Duke engineers, physicians and
biomedical scientists from the Duke University School of Medicine and the
Pratt School of Engineering. In addition to her role in Duke BME, Musah is a
MEDx Investigator, and she received a MEDx Targeted grant to collaborate with
Dr. Rasheed Gbadegesin, a professor of pediatrics and nephrology at Duke
University Medical Center.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

