

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Genomic Test Accurately Sorts Viral Versus Bacterial Infections

September 18, 2013

A blood test developed by Duke researchers showed more than 90-percent
accuracy in distinguishing between viral and bacterial infections when tested
in people with respiratory illnesses.

A blood test developed by Duke researchers showed more than 90-percent
accuracy in distinguishing between viral and bacterial infections when tested
in people with respiratory illnesses.

The test, which detects a specific genetic “signature” that the sick person’s
immune system expresses as a response to the virus, demonstrates a potential
new method for diagnosing the source of illnesses that have long been tough to
pinpoint.

Reported in the Sept. 18, 2013, issue of the journal _Science Translational
Medicine_ , the finding moves the technology closer to clinical use, where it
could help patients get quicker diagnoses and treatments, while curbing the
unnecessary use of antibiotics that don’t work on viral infections.

“In instances such as pandemic flu or the corona-virus that has erupted in the
Middle East, it’s extremely important to diagnose a viral illness far more
accurately and speedier than can be done using traditional diagnostics,” said
co-senior author Geoffrey S. Ginsburg, M.D., Ph.D., director of Genomic
Medicine and professor of medicine at Duke University School of Medicine.
“Current tests require knowledge of the pathogen to confirm infection, because
they are strain-specific. But our test could be used right away when a new,
unknown pathogen emerges.”

When infected by a virus, a person’s immune system responds differently than
when fighting a bacterial infection. These differences are evident at the
genetic level, where certain genes are switched on during a viral attack,
creating a fingerprint that broadly identifies the culpable pathogen.

In previous work, the Duke team described the development of a blood test,
using a special assay, to identify some 30 genes involved in the immune
response to viral infection among volunteers who had agreed to be infected
with a series of common upper respiratory viruses.

Unlike current tests that rely on evidence of the pathogen in the blood stream
– requiring knowledge of that particular bug to detect it – the new approach
could be used to detect unknown emerging diseases, including potential
bioterrorism threats.

“This is important not only in viral pandemics where infection may be caused
by unknown viruses but also in routine care where the decision to treat or not
with antibiotics is paramount,” said lead author Aimee K. Zaas, M.D., MHS,
associate professor of infectious diseases and international health at Duke.

The current study was a trial run of the blood test in a “real-world” setting.
Among 102 people arriving at a hospital’s emergency department with fever, 28
had a viral infection, 39 had a bacterial infection and 35 were healthy
controls. Using the test, the Duke researchers were able to accurately
classify more than 90 percent of the patients as having viral infection or
not.

The assay provided true positive identifications of viral infection in 89
percent of the cases, and correctly ruled out the negative cases 94 percent of
the time.

Duke engineers performed the statistical analysis that provided the ability to
distinguish virus from bacteria. "This is a terrific example of how the strong
collaborations between researchers at the Pratt School of Engineering and the
IGSP are enabling new breakthroughs in clinical medicine," said Lawrence
Carin, chair of the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Duke.

The researchers said larger studies are planned, and additional work is
ongoing to trim the amount of time it takes for the test results to be
reported. Ginsburg said the test currently takes 12 hours, and analyzes about
30 genes. He said both the time and the number of genes could be pared.

“We were very pleased that the assay could pick out those with viral infection
with a high degree of accuracy,” Zaas said. “This is perhaps the most
important aspect of this effort – the accuracy of the new test in a real-world
setting. It is a major step forward in the test becoming a useful diagnostic
to help physicians and patients.”

Co-senior author Christopher W. Woods, M.D., MPH, associate professor of
medicine, pathology and global health at Duke and the Durham VA Medical
Center, said the new test, if proven successful in additional studies, could
help resolve some of the most pressing issues around infectious diseases.

“One of the big global threats at the moment is the emergence of bacterial
resistance, and that is largely driven by overuse of antibiotics,” Woods said.
“This is a growing public health threat, creating infections that are
increasingly difficult to manage. A tool that enables us to accurately
identify viral infections could reduce the indiscriminate provision of
antibiotics thereby reducing the development of resistant pathogens.”

In addition to Ginsburg, Zaas and Woods, study authors include Thomas Burke,
Minhua Chen, Micah McClain, Bradly Nicholson, Timothy Veldman, Ephraim L.
Tsalik, Vance Fowler, Emanuel P. Rivers, Ronny Otero, Stephen F. Kingsmore,
Deepak Voora, Joseph Lucas, Alfred O. Hero, and Lawrence Carin.

The study was supported in part by the Defense Advanced Research Projects
Agency (DARPA), the National Institutes of Allergy and Infectious Diseases
(AI066569), and the Department of Veterans Affairs.

Ginsburg, Zaas, Woods, Hero, Carin and Lucas have filed for a provisional
patent on the respiratory viral signature. Fuller disclosures are provided in
the study.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

