

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# George Jordan: Turning a Passion for Technology into a Legal Career

May 29, 2013 | By Bryan Gilmer

Pratt Alumni Profile: George Jordan BSEE’93

Plenty of fine attorneys were English majors as undergraduates. But say you’re
the CEO of a tech company whose key innovations are protected by crucial
patents, patents now being legally challenged. Sure, you could hire one of
those former English scholars to defend them.

Or you maybe you’d rather hire George Jordan, whose preparation for University
of Texas Law School was a bachelor of science degree in electrical engineering
from Duke (’93). Jordan is now senior counsel at Fulbright & Jaworski LLP in
Houston specializing in patents, licensing, and intellectual property for
technology companies.

“My practice is entirely litigation at this point,” Jordan says. “When I first
started out as a patent lawyer, I was not only litigating patent disputes but
also drafting patents, and I had to draft patents to protect computer-related
inventions. I was able to use my experience at Pratt (School of Engineering)
where I designed a computer. It very much came in handy.”

Many consumer electronics patents concern particularly innovative software –
and Jordan learned programming in his engineering program, as well, allowing
him to understand the subtleties of software.

“I learned how to program in Assembly and C language,” Jordan notes. “In the
course of having to draft patents I’ve often had to use those programming
languages, and because I had learned C in college, that was the foundation for
me to learn C++ in the workplace. It was crucial for me to be able to sit down
with a software engineer and for him to be able to explain the idea and how
they implemented it in software.”

And then for Jordan to do something that’s a notorious requirement in
engineering school: “to put pen to paper, and to create a flowchart of it.”

> “One of the things that had drawn me to engineering was that I really enjoy
> problem solving and I had a passion for technology. I saw law school as a
> way to take it to a different plane – the skills there are still principle
> or rule-centric, very fact-oriented – one of the main differences being that
> when it comes to thinking as a lawyer, that there is also a moral or social
> aspect to it. I think it was a really good foundation at Pratt in terms of
> thinking analytically, practically and creatively about issues."

Jordan, who grew up in Atlanta, says he chose Duke over Rice University, the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Emory, and Georgia Tech.

“I think to a large extent, I chose Duke because I wanted to attend a top-
ranked engineering school and be highly competitive,” he says. “I had the
opportunity to visit Duke and actually speak with some engineering students,
who were really engaging and friendly. And one other thing that really stood
out for Duke was the diversity that I saw there.”

At first, Jordan majored in both electrical engineering and computer science,
but he decided that he preferred to take more non-engineering courses at a
university that also excels in many other fields of study.

“I decided to just do electrical engineering and use those extra hours to take
things like art history,” he says with a smile.

He served as parliamentarian for the National Society of Black Engineers and
wrote for DukEngineer Magazine. But during his junior year, Jordan started
considering law school rather than an engineering career.

“I had been doing summer internships in engineering positions with Northern
Telecom, which was pretty neat because I got to see different aspects of
engineering and to start viewing engineering in terms of the product cycle. I
got to work with manufacturing engineers dealing with problems on the assembly
line, engineers dealing with products in the field, and saw that even with the
sales and marketing group you had to have engineers who could explain the
technology. I wound up working in various departments. And throughout the
company, there were engineers.

“One of the things that had drawn me to engineering was that I really enjoy
problem solving and I had a passion for technology. I saw law school as a way
to take it to a different plane – the skills there are still principle or
rule-centric, very fact-oriented – one of the main differences being that when
it comes to thinking as a lawyer, that there is also a moral or social aspect
to it. I think it was a really good foundation at Pratt in terms of thinking
analytically, practically and creatively about issues.”

Jordan made an early name for himself as a lawyer drafting patents for Compaq
Computer, and these days, he represents both plaintiffs and defendants,
though, “recently, I’ve been more on the defense side.”

Courtroom trials and depositions present a common scenario that flashes Jordan
back to his days on West Campus, he says: “One thing I certainly didn’t
anticipate is that in patent litigation, the experts, both the experts on your
side and those on the other side, are engineering professors. And you’re
trying to challenge their expertise. Pratt welcomed such open challenges, and
I think it was good experience to have given all my interactions with
professors now.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

