

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# George Delagrammatikas: Design Thinking Meets Master's Education

January 31, 2020

_An expert in curriculum design and engineering education, he also takes the
helm as director of master’s studies for Duke MEMS  
_

George Delagrammatikas joined the Department of Mechanical Engineering &
Materials Science at Duke University in January 2020, as professor of the
practice and in the new role of assistant chair. An expert in curriculum
design and engineering education, he also takes the helm as director of
master’s studies in time to oversee admissions for Fall 2020.

“His visionary design thinking with regard to developing engineering curricula
and breadth of experience in academic administration make him an ideal fit for
this new role,” said Cate Brinson, chair of MEMS. “In addition to enhancing
the student experience in our growing master’s degree programs, he will
support our efforts to strengthen industry connections across our education
and research initiatives.”

> "I enjoy setting up educational environments tailor-made for communities of
> learners."

Delagrammatikas will build upon our existing programs and create several
focused master’s study tracks within MEMS which integrate the expertise of the
faculty and build on areas of strength. He will also increase the department’s
relations with industry by working with the chair to build an active advisory
group with members from alumni, industry and government. He will also work on
creating industry internship and entrepreneurial opportunities to broaden
student experiences.

Delagrammatikas joined Duke after 14 years at The Cooper Union for the
Advancement of Science and Art, where most recently he was professor of
mechanical engineering. He also performed administrative roles there,
including program director for STEM outreach and associate dean for education
and administration.

He earned his undergraduate degree in mechanical engineering from the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and MS and PhD in mechanical
engineering from the University of Michigan.

What most excites Delagrammatikas about curriculum and course design, he said,
is finding synergies with departments not traditionally linked.

“I want to facilitate multidisciplinary projects outside Pratt that join the
social sciences, architecture, business, art and public policy,” he said.

As a professor of the practice, he enjoys engaging students in active-
learning, team projects that highlight authentic engineering practices. He
prioritizes building character, project management, technical communication,
presentation and leadership skills while challenging students to justify their
design decisions through rigorous debate and to grow in confidence as they
attack open-ended problems.

He hit the ground running and is already co-teaching the Duke MEMS master’s
capstone course, Experiment Design & Research Methods, providing students with
a foundational experience that is emblematic of the Duke MS/MEng program.

“This course will bring together everything they learned during their
undergraduate days and have them apply those concepts and skills to solve
real-world engineering problems,” he said. The course will serve as a gateway
to a research laboratory at Duke or position in industry.

In the first incarnation of this course, the MEMS department itself will serve
as the client for student projects. The graduate student teams will focus on
building 10 experiments that will transform both the lab space and student
experience through new hands-on and computational exercises. Ultimately,
Delagrammatikas wants to make these experimental designs available as open-
source materials to benefit communities globally.

Features of Duke University and the Pratt School, such as the relentless quest
for excellence and interdisciplinary research and teaching, are what lured
this native New Yorker to the South.

“I saw a very strong team in MEMS; one that is smart and collegial, committed
to both improving the student experience and increasing scientific knowledge,”
he said. “I enjoy setting up educational environments tailor-made for
communities of learners. I know that I can learn a lot from my colleagues here
and my interactions will help me become a better educator and leader.”

The calmer, more affordable lifestyle of North Carolina also appealed to him
and his family.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

