

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Glimpses of Quantum Computing Phase Changes Show Researchers the Tipping
Point

June 9, 2022 | Ken Kingery

Tuning a quantum computer’s measurement rate provides hints of quantum phase
transition

Researchers at Duke University and the University of Maryland have used the
frequency of measurements on a quantum computer to get a glimpse into the
quantum phenomena of phase changes – something analogous to water turning to
steam.

By measuring the number of operations that can be implemented on a quantum
computing system without triggering the collapse of its quantum state, the
researchers gained insight into how other systems — both natural and
computational — meet their tipping points between phases. The results also
provide guidance for computer scientists working to implement quantum error
correction that will eventually enable quantum computers to achieve their full
potential.

The results appeared online June 3 in the journal Nature Physics.

When heating water to a boil, the movement of molecules evolves as the
temperature changes until it hits a critical point when it starts to turn to
steam. In a similar fashion, a quantum computing system can be increasingly
manipulated in discrete time steps until its quantum state collapses into a
single solution.

“There are deep connections between phases of matter and quantum theory, which
is what’s so fascinating about it,” said Crystal Noel, assistant professor of
electrical and computer engineering and physics at Duke. “The quantum
computing system is behaving in the same way as quantum systems found in
nature — like liquid changing to steam — even though it’s digital.”

The power of quantum computers lies within their qubits’ ability to be some
combination of both a 1 and 0 at the same time, with an exponential growth of
system complexity as more qubits are added. This allows them to tackle a
problem with massive parallelism, like trying to fit a puzzle’s pieces
together all at once rather than one at a time. The qubits, however, have to
be able to maintain their quantum indecisiveness until a solution is reached.

One of the many challenges this presents is in error correction. Some of the
qubits will inevitably lose a piece of information, and the system must be
able to discover and fix these mistakes. But because quantum systems lose
their “quantumness” when measured, keeping an eye out for errors is a tricky
task. Even with extra qubits keeping an eye on things, the more a quantum
algorithm is probed for errors, the more likely it is to fail.

“Like water molecules on the verge of becoming steam, there’s a threshold of
measurements a quantum computer can withstand before it loses its quantum
information,” Noel said. “And that number of measurements is an analogy for
how many errors the computer can withstand and still function correctly.”

In the new paper, Noel and her colleagues probe that transition threshold and
the system’s state on either side.

Working closely with Christopher Monroe, the Gilhuly Family Presidential
Distinguished Professor of Engineering and Physics at Duke, Marko Cetina,
assistant professor of physics at Duke, and Michael Gullans and Alexey
Gorshkov at the University of Maryland and the National Institute of Standards
and Technology, the group co-designed software to run random quantum circuits
tailored to their quantum system’s abilities. The experiment was run on one of
the Duke Quantum Center’s ion trap quantum computers—one of the most powerful
quantum computing systems in the world.

“The number of qubits in the system, the fidelity of its operations and the
level of system automation combined together at the same time is unique to
this quantum computer system,” Noel said. “Other systems have been able to
achieve each individually, but never all three at the same time in an academic
system. That’s what allowed us to run these experiments.”

By averaging over many random circuits, the team was able to see how the
frequency of measurement affected the qubits. As predicted, a critical point
emerged at which the system inevitably lost its coherence and quantum
information, and by looking at how the system behaved on either side of that
phase transition, researchers will be able to build better approaches to
error-correction codes in the future.

The data also provides a unique look into how other phase changes occur in
nature that researchers have never been able to see before.

“This demonstration is a perfect example of what we do uniquely at the Duke
Quantum Center,” Monroe said. “While our quantum computers are made of atoms
that are under exquisite control with electromagnetic traps, lasers and
optics, we can deploy these systems to do something altogether different, in
this case probing the underlying quantum nature of phase transitions. This
same quantum computer can also be applied to solving vexing models in fields
ranging from chemical reactions, DNA sequencing, and astrophysics. This
requires expertise not just in atomic physics, but in systems engineering,
computer science and whatever field defines the application to be run.”

This work is supported by the Army Research Office through the IARPA LogiQ
program, the National Science Foundation STAQ Program, the Air Force Office of
Scientific Research MURIs on Dissipation Engineering in Open Quantum Systems
and Quantum Measurement/Verification and Quantum Interactive Protocols, the
Army Research Office MURI on Modular Quantum Circuits, the Department of
Energy Quantum Systems Accelerator, and the Department of Energy ASCR
Accelerated Research in Quantum Computing program (DE-SC0020312).

CITATION: “Observation of Measurement-Induced Quantum Phases in a Trapped-Ion
Quantum Computer,” Crystal Noel, Pradeep Niroula, Daiwei Zhu, Andrew Risinger,
Laird Egan, Debopriyo Biswas, Marko Cetina, Alexey V. Gorshkov, Michael J.
Gullans, David A. Huse, Christopher Monroe. Nature Physics, June 3, 2022. DOI:
10.1038/s41567-022-01619-7

## Related News

August 20, 2020

### Crystal Noel: Hot on the Heels of a Long-Lasting Qubit

April 16, 2018

### Spectator Qubits Seek to Improve Control of Four Quantum Computing Systems

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

