

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Golf Mantra ‘Grip It and Rip It’ Extends to New Club Designs

November 3, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

Duke materials scientist rethinks the future of golf clubs with the industry’s
newest player

Like most every present-day sport, the game of golf has seen dramatic changes
in its equipment and technology over time. What started hundreds of years ago
as clubs made of wood—most notably American hickory and persimmon—quickly
transformed to iron heads when drop forging allowed mass production in the
late 1800s.

Steel entered the arena first through club shafts in the early 1930s and then
into the heads of drivers in the 1990s. Meanwhile, lightweight shafts made of
graphite, originally designed for women and senior golfers, started to take
hold in the PGA.

Since then, a few new materials such as titanium have been introduced, and
designs either using weights or hollowed-out heads to balance clubs have
become popular. But that’s more or less where the world of golf club
technology has stuck in the 2000s.

Within the past few years, however, a new player in the club game called
Parsons Xtreme Golf (PXG) has been looking to make the next evolutionary
leap—and they’ve tapped Duke University materials scientists for inspiration.

“PXG is not afraid to try anything,” said Ken Gall, professor and chair of the
Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science at Duke, who was
contracted to work on the new clubs. “They’re open to innovation and any new
materials we can think of, and that has made it a fun project to work on.”

Gall was brought to the project by Brad Schweigert, who was a student of
Gall’s at the University of Colorado – Boulder in the early 2000s and one of
the first research assistants in Gall’s laboratory. Schweigert, in turn, was
brought to the project when his colleague in the golf industry, Mike
Nicolette, was asked to redesign the modern golf club by Bob Parsons, now-
billionaire founder of GoDaddy, for a new golf equipment company he was
founding.

The pair was tasked with designing clubs that looked like traditional blades
but performed like clubs with a cavity-back—two designs that are on opposite
ends of the golf club spectrum. Parsons gave them full access not only to any
material they wanted to try and the time to experiment, but to any expertise
they needed.

“I immediately thought of Ken,” said Schweigert, who had kept in touch with
his former professor over the years. “He’s been a sort of sounding board to
help us talk about different material choices and make decisions on the
configurations we eventually landed on.”

Gall’s research has traditionally focused more on biomedical applications of
materials science. As just a few examples, Gall has worked on and successfully
marketed devices for soft tissue reconstruction with shape memory polymers,
joint fusion with shape memory alloys and bunion repair with 3D-printed
titanium.

But as an expert in mechanical properties of all types of materials, the range
of projects Gall has worked on spans many fields.

“Materials scientists work on a wide variety of materials and properties,”
said Gall. “My specialization in materials is mechanical properties, and this
cuts across many different disciplines ranging from healthcare and
transportation to sporting goods and energy.”

After extensive research, the team settled on a design for their signature
irons. The club heads feature a thermoplastic elastomer that marries a high
amount of rebound energy with just enough damping and dissipation to enhance
the club’s feel. That unique interior is combined with a thin face made of one
of the strongest steels available on the market. The resulting club head
produces a trampoline-like effect that offers a long-lasting, powerful recoil
without the worry of permanent deformation.

The clubs have only been on the market for a little more than a year, but
they’ve already gained a lot of traction, being sold in 27 countries at a rate
projecting to $46 million in annual sales. The clubs were also recently picked
up by seven PGA Tour pros—including British Open champion Zach Johnson—as well
as five LPGA Tour pros and a Champions Tour player.

But there is still work to be done.

“We’re not satisfied that we’ve found the best solution yet,” said Schweigert.
“Ken is also pointing us to other specialists and is now starting to help us
model more advanced materials.”

“We are performing experiments and simulations to recreate how these complex,
advanced materials behave at such high speeds and impact rates,” said Gall.
“We are searching for an optimized combination of materials we haven’t thought
of yet. Or perhaps the addition of new materials that result in big
performance improvements

“We’re also looking into using 3D printers for rapid prototyping,” continued
Gall, who helped install a new state of the art production metal printer at
Duke that is unique to a college campus. “How fast can we build new clubs? Are
the prototypes strong enough to test? Those are the directions we’re looking
in now.”

Aside from being fun and furthering his experience in the sporting world, Gall
says the project has helped him in the classroom as well.

“My involvement has been great for my teaching,” said Gall. “It allows me to
have another unique, real world example where materials science can be used to
improve a product’s performance.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

