

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Grant Targets Quantum Computing's Error Control Challenge

January 6, 2016

University-industry consortium tackling qubit degradation with ion technology
for quantum information applications

A team of researchers led by Duke University and the University of Maryland
have been tapped by the nation’s own “Q Branch” to take quantum computing
efforts to the next level using one of the field’s leading technologies—ion
traps.

The Intelligence Advanced Research Projects Activity (IARPA) invests in high-
risk, high-payoff research programs to tackle some of the most difficult
challenges in the intelligence community. One of these challenges is dealing
with encryption. Codes considered unbreakable by today’s best supercomputers
could be handled in a matter of hours by quantum computers.

The basic building blocks of a quantum device are qubits. These are the
quantum mechanical analogue of a traditional logical bit, which can be in a
“1” or a “0” state. Quantum physics allows for qubits to take on multiple
configurations simultaneously (e.g. an equally-weighted superposition of 0 and
1), which is forbidden in conventional computing. When scientists in the 1990s
proved that this strange property could be harnessed for solving certain
tasks, such as decryption, the quantum information revolution began.

While researchers have proven that robust qubits can be built, scaling them
into large networks while detecting and correcting errors remains a challenge.

IARPA has awarded a five-year, $31.9 million grant the Duke/Maryland/Georgia
Tech partnership dubbed Error-corrected Universal Reconfigurable Ion-trap
Quantum Archetype -- or EURIQA for short . Their goal is to bring together a
large number of atomic qubits to realize modular "super-qubits" that can be
scaled up while correcting for errors. This major multi-year award is led by
Jungsang Kim (Duke University), Christopher Monroe (University of Maryland and
the Joint Quantum Institute) and Ken Brown (Georgia Tech).

The effort also includes industry partners AOSense, Inc. (Sunnyvale,
California), ColdQuanta, Inc. (Boulder, Colorado) and Harris Corporation
(Melbourne, Florida), as well as theoretical support from Andrew Childs
(University of Maryland and the Joint Center for Quantum Information and
Computer Science) and Luming Duan (University of Michigan).

“Our ion trapping approach is one of the leading technologies that can
accomplish this goal,” said Jungsang Kim, professor of electrical and computer
engineering, computer science, and physics at Duke University, and the
principal investigator on the project. “We’re excited that IARPA sees our
group as one of the leaders in the field and has entrusted this important task
to us.”

Quantum systems are fundamentally delicate, and superpositions collapse if
they are observed. In other words, before useful information can be extracted,
computational resources can be compromised and even destroyed by interactions
with the environment.

But this obstacle is not insurmountable.

One of the first steps is to construct an extremely robust physical
realization of a qubit. In this regard, physicists have demonstrated that
trapped atomic ions have quantum staying power. In this system, each qubit is
stored in the internal energy levels of a single atomic ion—the same states
that are used in atomic clocks. Such states boast coherence times unmatched in
any other physical system. The qubits are manipulated through laser and
microwave radiation to form quantum logic gates and extended circuits for
calculations.

Ion trappers have become quite adept at controlling a handful of individual
qubits. This collaboration has previously proposed and performed
demonstrations that their approach is scalable and modular, a necessity
because many qubits are needed for useful quantum computation.

“Atomic ion qubits are fundamentally scalable, because they can be replicated
with virtually identical characteristics: an isolated ytterbium atom is
exactly the same in Washington, D.C. as it is in Los Angeles,” said
Christopher Monroe, professor of physics at the University of Maryland and the
Joint Quantum Institute, and co-leader on the project.

“Quantum computing is going through the same research and design processes
that conventional computing went through decades ago,” said Kim. “Just as the
first digital computer was constructed once we had reliable switching devices,
we are ready to explore the construction of more complex quantum circuits
based on the robust multi-qubit manipulation that is possible in trapped
ions.”

But all potential quantum computing technologies still face the same problem
that is central to the new IARPA LogiQ program: quantum error correction.

“We know how to build a quantum computer with 50-100 qubits with trapped ions
right now,” said Monroe. “This is a big enough system that we cannot simulate
what happens, even with all the conventional computers in the world. But some
killer applications of quantum computing require thousands or millions of
qubits, and error correction will be crucial to getting there.”

As with a conventional computer, scientists can encode quantum systems in a
way that corrects for errors that happen along the way, such as an accidental
bit flip where a 1 becomes 0, or vice versa.

Even in record-breaking pristine ion-trapping systems, errors grow fairly
rapidly as qubits are added. Because of that sneaky rule that makes quantum
systems collapse due to measurement—intentional or otherwise—simply
interrogating the qubits directly and fixing the broken ones destroys the
quantum computation.

The idea of a modular super-qubit or logical qubit begins to address this
problem. In this system, the information stored in a logical qubit is encoded
into specialized quantum states comprising multiple physical qubits.
Distributing the information in this way not only adds protection—it allows
for errors to be detected and corrected, all without actually knowing (or
needing to know) the exact details of the quantum state as a whole.

“The engineering required to achieve the goal of stopping qubits from
degrading through error correction will go a long way toward making quantum
computers practically viable,” said Kim.

IARPA LogiQ Program: iarpa.gov/index.php/research-programs/logiq

Duke University houses Fitzpatrick Institute for Photonics, an extensively
interdisciplinary effort to advance photonics and optical sciences at the
boundary nexus of nano-bio-info-opto convergence, and the Multi-functional
Integrated Systems Technology group.

The University of Maryland is home to three quantum science research centers:
the Joint Center for Quantum Information and Computer Science (QuICS), the
Joint Quantum Institute (JQI), and the Quantum Engineering Center (QEC).

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

