

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Grill Shortlisted for IET A F Harvey Engineering Award

June 8, 2020

The £350,000 prize would help advance research on using electrical stimulation
to relieve chronic pain

Warren Grill, the Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School Distinguished Professor of
Biomedical Engineering at Duke University, is one of five researchers
shortlisted for the Institution of Engineering and Technology’s (IET)
prestigious £350,000 A F Harvey Engineering Research Prize.

The prize is awarded annually in recognition of an outstanding achievement in
engineering research in the fields of medical, microwave and radar or
laser/optoelectronic engineering, with the prize fund awarded to support
further research led by the recipient. This year’s theme is medical
engineering and technology.

“I am excited and honored by the recognition from the IET’s Search and
Selection Panel of the impact of our engineering research achievements,” said
Grill. “And I am grateful for the myriad contributions of students, staff and
collaborators to our accomplishments.”

For more than two decades, Grill’s work has focused on using various types of
electrical stimulation to restore organ function, treat movement disorders and
relieve pain. For example, he has investigated the effect different patterns
have on the efficacy of deep brain stimulation for treating motor symptoms
stemming from Parkinson’s disease. He also recently developed a method for
using light-based deep brain stimulation to try to tease out exactly how the
therapy works.

In other work, Grill has recently shown that stimulating the vagus nerve
stimulation can reduce inflammation and restore cognitive function after
injury or surgery in older adults. He has also shown that certain types of
nerve stimulation can restore bladder function.

“The A F Harvey Engineering Research Prize recognizes the outstanding research
achievements of the recipient, from anywhere in the world, who is identified
through a search and selection process conducted by a panel of international
experts from around the globe,” said Sir John O’Reilly, chair of the IET’s
Search and Selection Panel for the Prize.

“We are incredibly proud, through the generous legacy from the late Dr A F
Harvey to be able to recognize and support the furtherance of pioneering
engineering research in these fields and thereby their subsequent impact in
advancing the world around us. I’d like to congratulate our five finalists.”

The IET’s A F Harvey prize is named after Dr A F Harvey who bequeathed a
generous sum of money to the IET for a trust fund to be set up in his name to
further research in the specified fields.

The prize winner will be chosen from a shortlist of five candidates and
announced in December 2020. The winning researcher will deliver a keynote
lecture on their research at IET London: Savoy Place in spring 2021.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

