

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Gunsch Receives the 2016 Huber Research Prize

May 20, 2016

Prizes awarded to ASCE members for notable achievements in research related to
civil engineering

Claudia Gunsch, associate professor of civil and environmental engineering at
Duke, has won the 2016 Walter L. Huber Civil Engineering Research Prize from
the American Society of Civil Engineers. Gunsch was recognized for "pioneering
the development of gene silencing based water disinfection technology,
significantly contributing to genetic bioaugmentation technology for the in
situ bioremediation of organic contaminants and advancing our understanding of
the impact of emerging contaminants on biological wastewater treatment."

Gunsch's research focuses on characterizing and engineering environmental
microbiomes by applying fundamental concepts from the fields of microbiology,
genomics and bioinformatics to environmental engineering applications. Some of
her current research projects include exploring how microbes adapt and evolve
when exposed to contaminants and developing innovative water treatment
technologies for industrial and developing world applications.

Founded in 1852, ASCE is the nation's oldest engineering society and
represents more than 150,000 members of the civil engineering profession in
177 countries. Through the expertise of its active membership, ASCE is a
leading provider of technical and professional conferences and continuing
education, the world's largest publisher of civil engineering content, and an
authoritative source for codes and standards that protect the public.

The Huber Prize was founded in 1946 when Mrs. Alberta Reed Huber endowed
annual awards to stimulate research in civil engineering in honor of her
husband, Walter L. Huber, Past President, ASCE. These prizes are awarded to
members of the ASCE in any grade for notable achievements in research related
to civil engineering. Preference is given to younger members (generally under
40 years of age) of early accomplishment who can be expected to continue
fruitful careers in research. Each award includes a certificate and a cash
prize.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

