

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Aerobatics Combine Art and Aerodynamics

May 17, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

Professor Kenneth Hall takes his love of aerodynamics and aviation to the
skies in local aerobatics competitions

When Kenneth Hall first saw a photo of his future aerobatics plane, his heart
sank. At Hall’s request, a local friend and aircraft broker had quickly
located the perfect plane to learn the craft with—a nearby American Champion
Super Decathlon in excellent condition for a fair price. There was just one
problem.

It was painted Carolina blue.

For most people, this wouldn’t be an issue, but Hall is a professor at Duke
University, and the color is the exact shade made famous by Duke’s crosstown
rivals at the University of North Carolina—Chapel Hill. The airplane’s tail
number even ends with “CH.”

“I bought it anyway,” said Hall, who is now the Julian Francis Abele Professor
of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science at Duke. “But it took me more
than a year to get used to the color.”

Hall began learning how to fly in the summer of 1990, the same year he joined
Duke’s faculty. Over the years, he earned his single-engine airplane private
pilot’s certificate, followed by his instrument rating and then a multi-engine
commercial certificate. By 1998, he owned a Cessna 172 Skyhawk—the most
numerously produced aircraft ever—and was regularly flying through the skies
of North Carolina.

For Hall, flying had been a dream since building model airplanes as a kid.
It’s a love that lead him to his work in aerodynamics. His research includes
modeling the behavior of unsteady air flows in the fan, compressor and turbine
stages of gas turbine engines. These unsteady aerodynamic forces can cause
unwanted and damaging blade vibrations. Hall’s work, for which he won the 2018
AIAA Aerodynamics Award, seeks to uncover the underlying physical mechanisms
at play, and to develop computational tools to aid in the design of more
efficient and powerful gas turbine engines.

Hall became interested in a different sort of flying while teaching
undergraduate classes on aircraft performance and design around 2011. The
project he put in front of his juniors and seniors was to design and build a
lightweight single-seat cross-country airplane that could set the unrefueled
distance record for that class of aircraft.

While the airplane was never built, Hall took notice of an interesting feature
of the class’s design—it looked like a Formula 1 racer flown at the Reno
Championship Air Races, one of the few remaining venues for air racing, the
“world’s fastest motorsport.” That realization made Hall want to compete in
the races. But to qualify, he’d have to learn how to fly aerobatics, which is
why he was looking to purchase that Carolina blue airplane.

Lay people often think of Aerobatics as stunt flying or trick flying, although
strict safety regulations make actual aerobatic competitions tamer than those
descriptions suggest. Pilots are given a sequence of maneuvers to fly taken
from the Aresti Catalogue, which contains every maneuver permitted in
competition, such as rolls, spins and hammerheads. As Hall began to learn the
new form of flying, he quickly discovered he had more to worry about than the
color of his airplane.

“A typical maneuver in my plane puts four Gs on the pilot, and some can get up
to five,” said Hall. “I had bouts of motion sickness for the first few months,
but I eventually got used to it.”

As Hall became better at aerobatics, his original goal of racing in Nevada
faded. Instead, he continued practicing aerobatics and has recently started to
fly in local aerobatic contests in the lower ranks. Much like figure skating,
judges on the ground watch as pilots guide their airplanes through the
prescribed flight sequence while judging the technical merits of each figure,
such the roundness of a looping figure or the symmetry of maneuvers performed
along a vertical line.

Completing these types of maneuvers is all about knowing where to look. When
pilots can no longer see the horizon out in front of them, they look out to
the side using sighting devices mounted on their wings to keep track of their
orientation. Even then, some aspects of aerobatics just take practice.

“You can’t see a loop from inside the airplane, so getting your airplane to
make a perfectly round loop is more about knowing what it feels like to fly it
correctly,” said Hall. “So practicing requires help from people on the ground
to let you know how well you’re doing.”

> "Aerobatics has made me a better and safer pilot. The importance of
> understanding how the airplane behaves at the edges of its performance
> envelope—and how to recover if you get outside the envelope—can’t be
> underestimated."

As with any sport, there are different levels of competition. For aerobatics,
these include—from least competitive to most—primary, sportsman, intermediate,
advanced, and unlimited. The main difference is the difficulty level and the
number of different sequences a pilot flies.

In primary, the flight sequence is known beforehand and can be practiced
repeatedly. Sportsman adds an optional free sequence, designed by the pilot.
The three higher levels have both the known and free sequences, plus an
unknown sequence the pilots only see for the first time the night before they
fly it in competition.

Hall currently competes in the sportsman category and has plans to fly in two
or three events in North Carolina and Virginia this year. While he may one day
move up to the intermediate class, moving higher requires both higher
performance airplanes and pulling more Gs, which is physically demanding.

As it is, aerobatics is already an interesting and challenging hobby for Hall.

“Flying a maneuver well requires skill,” said Hall. “Aerobatics has made me a
better and safer pilot. The importance of understanding how the airplane
behaves at the edges of its performance envelope—and how to recover if you get
outside the envelope—can’t be underestimated.”

Aerodynamics Research at Duke

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

