

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Kenneth C. Hall Wins 2018 AIAA Aerodynamics Award

February 27, 2018

Award honors novel contributions to the modeling of unsteady aerodynamic flows
in turbomachinery and flight vehicles

Kenneth C. Hall, the Julian Francis Abele Professor of Mechanical Engineering
and Materials Science at Duke University, has been named the recipient of the
2018 American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics Aerodynamics Award.

The award is presented for meritorious achievement in the field of applied
aerodynamics, recognizing notable contributions in the development,
application and evaluation of aerodynamic concepts and methods. Hall is being
recognized for his “seminal contributions in the development of novel unsteady
aerodynamic theories and analysis methods for internal and external flows.”

“I’m pleased and honored to receive this award,” said Hall. “I’ve been very
fortunate in my career to have some great colleagues in the department to
collaborate with, and I’ve had exceptional Duke students who have contributed
significantly to my research.”

This summer, Hall will also be accepting the American Society of Mechanical
Engineer’s Dedicated Service Award honoring unusual dedicated voluntary
service marked by outstanding performance, demonstrated effective leadership,
prolonged and committed service, devotion, enthusiasm and faithfulness.

Much of Hall’s career has focused on understanding and modeling the behavior
of unsteady air flows in the fan, compressor and turbine stages of gas turbine
engines used in aircraft and for power generation. The resulting unsteady
aerodynamic forces can cause unwanted and damaging blade vibrations in these
engines. The methods developed by Hall and his colleagues are useful both to
understand the underlying physical mechanisms and to aid in the design of more
efficient and powerful turbines.

Early in his career, Hall led the development of a new way to model such
systems, working in the frequency domain rather than the time domain, allowing
the governing fluid dynamic equations to be solved much more quickly and
accurately. More recently, Hall has worked to develop models that incorporate
the effects of multiple rows of turbine blades. These frequency domain
approaches are now widely used in the turbomachinery industry and have been
adapted by leading CFD software companies.

In addition to his work on unsteady aerodynamics, and with the help of his
brother Steven Hall, professor of aeronautics and astronautics at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the pair have developed a method to
compute the theoretical minimum power required for helicopter flight, which
Hall has also extended to the study of the birds in flapping flight.

Hall will receive the AIAA Aerodynamics Award during the recognition luncheon
at the 2018 AIAA Aviation Forum and Exposition (AVIATION 2018), on June 26 in
Atlanta, Georgia.

For more than 80 years, AIAA has been the principal society of the aerospace
engineer and scientist. The Institute continues to be the principal voice,
information resource, and publisher for aerospace engineers, scientists,
managers, policymakers, students, and educators. AIAA is also the go-to
resource for stimulating professional accomplishment and standards-driven
excellence in all areas of aerospace for prominent corporations and government
organizations worldwide.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

