

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Hall Elected a Member of the National Academy of Engineering

February 10, 2020

Duke mechanical engineering professor recognized for three decades of
contributions to aerodynamics and aeromechanics

Kenneth Hall, the Julian Francis Abele Distinguished Professor in the
Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science at Duke University,
has been named a member of the National Academy of Engineering (NAE).

Election to the NAE is one of the highest professional distinctions for
engineers. Hall joins a class of 87 new members and 18 international members
announced by the NAE Thursday, and becomes the tenth faculty member at Duke
Engineering to hold the distinction.

Hall was cited for, “The development of unsteady aerodynamic and aeromechanics
theories and analysis for internal and external aerodynamic flows.”

“Ken is a scholar and teacher in the true sense of the word—he is a deep
thinker and loves his teaching and students, and we are thrilled that Ken has
been recognized by his peers for his significant contributions to aerospace
research and his love of teaching,” said Ravi Bellamkonda, the Vinik Dean of
the Pratt School of Engineering at Duke. “Ken’s recognition reinforces Duke
Engineering’s strength in aeroelasticity and computational fluid dynamics."

Hall’s research focuses on understanding and modeling the behavior of unsteady
air flows and their interaction with elastic aerospace structures, for example
in the fan, compressor and turbine stages of gas turbine engines used in
aircraft and for power generation. The resulting unsteady aerodynamic forces
can cause unwanted and damaging blade vibrations in these engines. The methods
developed by Hall and his colleagues at Duke are useful both in understanding
the underlying physical mechanisms and in designing more efficient and safer
gas turbine engines and aerospace vehicles.

Early in his career, Hall pioneered the development of so-called frequency
domain techniques in computational fluid mechanics (CFD) computer codes. Most
prior CFD codes used computationally expensive direct time simulations of
unsteady flows. Using frequency domain techniques, computational times can be
reduced dramatically, sometimes by two orders of magnitude, and the solutions
are in many cases significantly more accurate.

More recently, Hall and his colleagues at Duke have developed nonlinear
versions of these frequency domain techniques using a technique known as
harmonic balance. These frequency domain approaches are now widely used in the
turbomachinery industry and have also been adopted for use by leading CFD
software companies.

In addition to his work on unsteady aerodynamics, Hall and his brother, Steven
Hall, a professor of aeronautics and astronautics at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, have developed an analysis method to compute the
minimum power required for helicopter flight. They have applied a similar
analysis to study the power requirements of birds in flapping flight.

Hall is a fellow of both the American Society of Mechanical Engineers and the
American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics.

“I’m honored to join a growing number of my colleagues in the Pratt School who
are members of the NAE,” said Hall. “I’ve been very fortunate in my career to
have had great collaborators—including Earl Dowell, Bob Kielb, and Jeff
Thomas—and I’ve worked with exceptional Duke students, all of whom have
contributed significantly to my research.”

As a member of NAE, Hall will help carry out the academy’s mission of
providing engineering leadership in service to the nation. He joins more than
2,500 peer-elected members and international members in the NAE, which serves
as an advisor to the federal government and conducts independent studies to
examine important topics in engineering and technology.

Including Hall, seven Pratt School of Engineering faculty have been named to
the NAE since 2015. Other current members include Ana Barros (CEE), Robert
Calderbank (ECE), Ingrid Daubechies (Math/ECE), Earl Dowell (MEMS), Henry
Petroski (CEE), Vahid Tarokh (ECE), Jennifer West (BME/MEMS), Mark Wiesner
(CEE) and Blake Wilson (BME/ECE).

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

