

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Harnessing Supercomputers for Computational Materials Science

July 10, 2015 | By Ken Kingery

A new grant for more than $1.8 million will help materials scientists complete
time-intensive quantum mechanical calculations by connecting multiple
computational libraries

Duke University researchers and colleagues from the University of California,
Berkeley have secured more than $1.8 million from the National Science
Foundation to help materials scientists around the world solve a high school
math problem in linear algebra.

The problem in question is solving a system of many equations, a so-called
eigenvalue problem. As long as there are only a couple of variables and few
equations, the answer can be found by anyone with an undergraduate background
in linear algebra using a pencil and a piece of paper. But when the complexity
escalates to millions of variables and equations, it can take the world’s
fastest computers days to come out with a set of solutions.

This is the challenge faced by materials scientists like Volker Blum,
associate professor of mechanical engineering and materials science and of
chemistry at Duke, who want to use models of atomic structure to predict a new
material’s properties.

“We’re never going to be able to accurately model all of the atoms in a solar
cell,” said Blum, who is the lead investigator on the new grant. “But there
are ways of modeling a few thousand atoms in a system and extracting sensible
results for a material on a scale relevant to the real world.”

These methods comprise a handful of computational libraries built by
researchers around the world. With names like the EigensoLvers for Petascale
Applications (ELPA) library, the Orbital Minimization Method (OMM), or the
Pole EXpansion and Selective Inversion (PEXSI) library, these open-source
algorithms use different tricks and programming numerical techniques to reduce
the computational time required to find a decent answer.

The challenge for researchers, then, is to figure out which library will work
best for their particular problem and to plug their equations into it.

Blum and his colleagues—including Jianfeng Lu, assistant professor of
mathematics, chemistry and physics at Duke, Lin Lin of UC Berkeley, Chao Yang
of Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Alvaro Vazquez-Mayagoitia of Argonne
National Laboratory and a large group of already committed “stakeholder”
projects around the world —are looking to automate that challenge.

With the new grant, the researchers will build a platform that ties together
the different computational libraries, making it easier for materials
scientists to quickly solve their systems of linear equations.

“We'll provide the infrastructure so our colleagues around the world don’t
have to go in and adjust the nitty-gritty details each time they want to run
one of these programs,” said Blum. “Researchers can put in the system they
need solved, and our platform will determine which library will work best and
control enough of the process to make people’s lives easier.”

The project will also try to keep pace with the future of computing by
retaining the ability to add new libraries and use new technologies. By
partnering with industry leaders NVIDIA and Intel, the platform will be able
to extend to emerging computational architectures like graphic processing
units (GPU) and Many Integrated Core (MIC) processing, which should further
decrease computing times in the future.

The project will have close ties to a separate “Electronic Structure Library”
community effort, backed by Europe’s “Centre Européen de Calcul Atomique et
Moléculaire” (CECAM) organization. Through these connections and the new four-
year project, Blum hopes to bring some of this specialized computing expertise
that has shifted to Europe in the past two decades back to the United States.

“With this project, we hope that we can, to some extent, build a new leg to
stand on,” said Blum. “It won’t be the only leg by any means, but hopefully
it’s going to be an important one.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

