

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Henri Gavin Appointed Chair of Duke CEE

November 10, 2020

Gavin is an expert in structural and nonlinear dynamics, constrained control
systems, earthquake engineering and seismic hazard mitigation

Duke Professor Henri Gavin will assume the role of Department Chair of Civil
and Environmental Engineering, beginning July 2021 and extending to July 2023.
He will take over from James B. Duke Distinguished Professor Mark Wiesner,
whose term as chair ends in June 2021. A national search for the next CEE
chair will begin in the fall of 2022.

Gavin is a highly regarded scholar as well as a committed teacher and service-
oriented community member. An expert in structural and nonlinear dynamics,
constrained control systems, earthquake engineering and seismic hazard
mitigation, he has forged relationships with universities and research faculty
in Tsukuba, Japan; Christchurch, New Zealand; and Kathmandu, Nepal. His focus
on improving quality of life exemplifies Duke CEE’s mission to “engineer a
better world.”

Under Wiesner's leadership as chair over the past five years, Duke CEE hit its
highest ever rankings and reached unprecedented levels of research funding.
The department also cultivated a reputation of unmatched support for its
student scholars, both through competitive financial support packages and
unique training opportunities, including the NSF-funded Integrative
Bioinformatics for Investigating and Engineering Microbiomes (IBIEM) and
Partnership for International Research and Education (PIRE) programs.

Wiesner has directed the Center for Environmental Implications of
Nanotechnology, or CEINT, since 2008. As one of Pratt’s first major centers,
CEINT has set the pace for Duke Engineering as it has grown into a research
powerhouse. Wiesner was inducted into the National Academy of Engineering in
2015, the same year that he became chair of CEE, and he has consistently
appeared on the list of Clarivate Highly Cited Researchers, demonstrating the
breadth of his work’s impact.

The Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering thanks Wiesner for his
dedication and welcomes Gavin to his new role in the coming summer.

More News from Duke CEE

## Related News

October 25, 2018

### Ten Years In, What Has CEINT Taught Us?

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

