

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# ‘Hidden Figures No More’ Highlights Women in STEM

March 30, 2017

A panel of distinguished women in science and engineering discussed challenges
and achievements at a free public screening of 'Hidden Figures'

The achievements of women in engineering and scientific fields are more
visible now than at the time of the true story told in the film “Hidden
Figures.”

But panelists gathered for a screening at Duke on March 23 told audience
members that women today can still benefit from emulating the persistence and
drive shown by NASA pioneers Katherine Johnson, Mary Jackson and Dorothy
Vaughn.

“Today, we get credit for our work, that has definitely changed for the
better,” said panelist Adrienne Stiff-Roberts, associate professor of
electrical and computer engineering at Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering and
an advanced materials researcher. “But you need to be resilient, no matter
what happens. You must keep your mind on your goal, and always stay focused on
that.”

Stiff-Roberts was one of a panel of highly accomplished women of color working
in advanced scientific and engineering fields who spoke prior to a free
community screening of the Oscar-nominated film. “Hidden Figures” tells the
story of three black female mathematicians whose contributions were critical
to the success of first U.S. spaceflights in the early 1960s.

The event, “Hidden Figures No More: Highlighting Phenomenal Women in STEM,”
was attended by nearly 300 students, faculty, staff and community members,
including young families, who filled Griffith Film Theater. The evening also
featured a special reminiscence by Peggy Riley Robinson, an associate
professor in the Duke Physician Assistant Program and a niece of Jackson,
NASA’s first black female engineer.

Held during Women’s History Month, the evening was sponsored by the Office of
Diversity & Inclusion in Engineering at the Pratt school, the Women’s Center
at Duke, The Kate Williams Fund Benefitting Women in STEM and Freewater
Productions. Erika Moore, a PhD candidate in biomedical engineering studying
with Fitzpatrick Family University Professor of Engineering Jennifer West, was
the panel moderator.

“The chance to show ‘Hidden Figures’ presented us with an opportunity to
celebrate those figures among us today who are making highly visible and
outstanding contributions in their fields,” said Johnna Frierson, director of
diversity and inclusion in engineering at Pratt and a PhD microbiologist. “And
it was also a chance to have a conversation as a community about diversity and
inclusion in science, technology, engineering and mathematics.”

Asked by audience members about their own experiences, several panelists said
that resilience, especially through graduate school, is an important skill to
develop.

“There will be challenges – you may be told at one point, as I was, that you
might not be up to the challenge,” said Valerie Ashby, dean of the Trinity
School of Arts & Sciences, whose research has focused on synthetic polymer
chemistry. “But, you can fight your way back. Be resilient and be sure to
celebrate your successes.”

Robin Coger, dean of the College of Engineering at N.C. Agricultural and
Technical University, whose research expertise is in solving design problems
related to tissue-engineered organs, said it was important for women in
technical fields to find mentors.

“And remember: you might not find your mentor in your same field,” she said.

Going forward, the public image of the lives of people in science and
engineering needs to change, and it is the job of scientists and engineers to
lead that effort, said Kyla McMullen, a tenure-track faculty member of the
University of Florida’s Computer & Information Sciences Department and a
leader in the development of 3D audio.

“When I turn on the TV, I often see that science looks like this sterile,
uncreative endeavor – I think that deters women,” she said. “It’s the job of
every scientist to show that it is a creative and exciting profession.”

Panelists also included Fay Cobb Payton, professor of Information
Technology/Systems at N.C. State University, whose research involves health
care and digital equity in the context of information and communication
technologies, and Ayana Arce, associate professor of physics at Duke and a
member of the team that discovered the Higgs boson particle in 2012.

Jackson would have been impressed with the people attending the event, said
her niece in remarks before the film began.

“I know it would make her proud to see so many women of color making such
incredible contributions in STEM fields,” Robinson said.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

