

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Strengthened by Chaos, New Super-Hard Materials Will Stir Steel Together

February 24, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

A US Department of Defense project led by Duke will create AI tools to design
recipes for new materials tailored to super-hard, high-temperature
applications

A nationwide collaboration led by researchers at Duke University’s Center for
Autonomous Materials Design is working to synthesize inexpensive materials
hard enough to literally stir two pieces of steel together with little wear
and tear.

Funded by a five-year, $7.5 million grant through the US Department of
Defense’s Multidisciplinary University Research Initiative (MURI) competition,
the team will also develop a suite of AI-materials tools capable of on-demand
designing of similar materials with properties tailored to a wide range of
applications.

The class of so-called “high-entropy” materials derives enhanced stability
from a chaotic mixture of atoms rather than relying solely on the orderly
atomic structure of conventional materials. After first demonstrating this
approach with carbides in 2018, the researchers will now look to add borides
into the irregular self-organized structures to produce some of the hardest
materials ever made.

The MURI includes researchers from Pennsylvania State University, North
Carolina State University, the Missouri University of Science & Technology,
and the University at Buffalo.

“We’ve already developed the computational machinery needed to tell us when
this phenomenon will produce these stable, super-hard materials,” said Stefano
Curtarolo, professor of mechanical engineering and materials science at Duke
and leader of the new MURI, his second in the past eight years. “Our goal now
is to develop the necessary ‘cooking’ procedures as well as AI-materials tools
that can automate the discovery of new recipes to fit different needs.”

While high-entropy materials could be useful for many applications, one of the
priorities at the top of the DoD’s list is called friction stir welding.
Invented in the early 1990s, the technique uses drill-like bits to join two
pieces of metal without melting them.

> “We know the pieces work, we just have to put them all together. Once we
> have the high-entropy borides as well as the carbides, we can pack them
> together into a super-hard sandwich. It’s going to be killer.”
>
> **Stefano curtarolo** | professor of mechanical engineering & materials
> science

As the bits rotate, they heat and soften the metal, allowing the surrounding
material to swirl and mix as the machine moves along a line. Because neither
metal is heated to its melting point, friction stir welding produces an
extremely strong and durable joint with few defects. The technique can be used
on a wide range of materials and even multiple types of metals at once.

But it struggles with steel.

For a friction stir welding tip to make a successful joint between two pieces
of steel, it must be incredibly hard to avoid wearing too fast, thermally
stable to withstand the high temperatures, chemically inert so that it does
not pollute the weld, and inexpensive enough to mass-produce. Diamond is hard
enough for the job, but it sheds carbon atoms during the process, making the
weld brittle. Polycrystalline cubic boron nitride—the current material of
choice—wears down too quickly for how expensive it is to make.

"If the right material could make friction stir welding a viable choice for
large projects involving steel, it could revolutionize the construction of
ships and other defense equipment,” said Curtarolo. “And we’ve got the idea
for the perfect material for the job.”

The material that Curtarolo and his colleagues have in mind is a combination
of carbon, boron, nitrogen and five other inexpensive metallic elements, all
stabilized by chaotic entropy.

When students learn about molecular structures, they’re shown crystals like
salt, which resembles a 3-D checkerboard. These materials gain their stability
and strength through regular, ordered atomic bonds where the atoms fit
together like pieces of a jigsaw puzzle.

Imperfections in a crystalline structure, however, can often add strength to a
material. If cracks start to propagate along a line of molecular bonds, for
example, a group of misaligned structures can stop it in its tracks. Hardening
solid metals with the perfect amount of disorder is achieved through a process
of heating and quenching called annealing.

High-entropy materials take this idea to the next level. Jettisoning the
reliance on crystalline structures and bonds for their stability, these
materials rely on disorder at multiple length scales to enhance stability.
While a pile of baseballs won’t stand on its own, a pile of baseballs, shoes,
bats, hats and gloves just might support a resting baseball player.

In 2018, Curtarolo, Cormac Toher, assistant research professor of mechanical
engineering and materials science at Duke, and their team showed that this
approach can work with carbides when they produced a handful of recipes that
proved extremely hard and heat-tolerant.

They have also been working to produce similar boron-based materials and are
already approaching the hardness of the industry standard. The key to solving
the friction stir welding problem, Curtarolo believes, is combining the two in
an interlocking, Tetris-like maze of high-entropy carbides and borides.

“Carbides don’t usually mix with borides, but if we can get them to form
interlocking grains, we can make something that is harder than both,” said
Curtarolo. “That’s the trick.”

However, with a long list of potential ingredients and an equally long list of
potential methods for cooking them, discovering the perfect combination
through trial and error will be out of the question. Instead, the team is
turning to computer modeling and machine learning.

Curtarolo’s team already knows how to model and predict the formation of high-
entropy carbides, and they are getting close to figuring out high-entropy
borides. For help on that front, Curtarolo is turning to William Fahrenholtz,
distinguished professor of ceramic engineering at the Missouri S&T, and an
expert on borides and other high-temperature materials.

With a firmer handle on high-entropy borides, the group can generate large
amounts of data on their potential recipes and turn them over to Eva Zurek,
professor of chemistry at the University at Buffalo, and expert computational
and theoretical chemist, who will develop AI algorithms to more quickly zero
in on target concoctions. Adding to these algorithms by investigating how
regions of compression and tension will be affected by the different
properties of the carbides and borides will be Donald Brenner, department head
and distinguished professor of materials science and engineering at NC State.

Testing their concoctions will require specialized equipment that can take
elemental powders, heat them at several thousand degrees under high pressures
(without melting them) for days, and then slowly let them cool. Overseeing and
characterizing the formation of these structures will be handled by Penn State
professors of materials science and engineering Jon-Paul Maria and Douglas
Wolfe, the latter of whom is also the head of the Department of Metals,
Ceramics and Coatings Processing at Penn State’s Applied Research Laboratory.

When all is said and done, Curtarolo and his team hope to not only have
produced a super-hard, high-entropy, carbide-boride capable of friction stir
welding steel but to have devised a system for designing similar materials to
fit other needs as well.

“We know the pieces work, we just have to put them all together,” said
Curtarolo. “Once we have the high-entropy borides as well as the carbides, we
can pack them together into a super-hard sandwich. It’s going to be killer.”

## Related News

November 26, 2018

### Disordered Materials Could Be Hardest, Most Heat-Tolerant Ever

March 25, 2016

### Curtarolo Wins Humboldt Foundation's Bessel Research Prize

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

