

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# The High-Stakes Game of Geoengineering

March 30, 2021

With NSF support, risk scientist Mark Borsuk and colleagues are using a
combination of an experimental game and mathematical modeling to understand
and predict when and why nations might choose to enact politically risky
“quick fix” solutions to climate change

Rising sea levels, wildfire seasons that are the worst on record, parched
cropland—in spite of all the evidence that human civilization is losing its
game of chicken with the climate, no one is flinching.

Until world leaders can agree to hit the brakes on carbon emissions, humanity
needs some safeguards. And the urgency of that need has some scientists
seriously considering a climate change amelioration strategy—intentionally
reducing the sun’s incoming radiation—that might have been dismissed as
outlandish in less dire times.

“This strategy of solar radiation management, or SRM, isn’t trying to reverse
climate change,” said Mark Borsuk, Duke professor of civil and environmental
engineering. “It is changing the climate further, but in a way intended to
counteract some of the warming effects of greenhouse gases. Responsible
scientists are looking at it not as a permanent solution, but as a way to
avoid some of the worst consequences of global warming while society
transitions to carbon-free energy solutions.”

Some SRM strategies seem a little wild; one idea is to construct a giant
umbrella between our planet and the sun to shield us from a bit of its heat.
Another idea is to use a fleet of planes to continuously discharge inexpensive
fine sulfate particles into the stratosphere. The idea is that these particles
would reflect some of the sun’s light and cool the earth in the same way that
volcanic eruptions have in the past.

“By reducing incoming sunlight by only a very small percentage, you could
offset the warming effects of greenhouse gases almost entirely, and it is
certainly cheaper than suffering the impacts of climate change. There’s little
reason to think it wouldn’t work, so it’s a tempting proposition—an apparent
quick fix,” said Borsuk.

Of course, like any quick fix, such a technological intervention affecting the
entire planet comes with abundant uncertainty and risk—the assessment of which
happens to be Borsuk's specialty. More specifically, Borsuk is an expert at
mathematically modeling complex decision-making processes as they relate to
the environment and human well-being.

Scientists have hypothesized many potential risks associated with SRM, Borsuk
noted. Solar shading’s effects on crop growth and influence on animal behavior
are unknown. As they settle out of the atmosphere, sulfate particles might
acidify the oceans and worsen coral bleaching and the death of reefs. The
heat-absorbing particles could change weather patterns in unexpected ways. And
if the constant infusion of particles into the stratosphere were interrupted
by an unforeseen event—a pandemic, say—the earth could very suddenly warm to
pre-SRM levels, which could be catastrophic.

There are also geopolitical risks to consider. “It’s cheap and easy enough
that one country, or even one wealthy individual or organization who thinks
they might benefit, could implement it by themselves,” said Borsuk. “It may
sound like the plot of a Bond movie, but some nefarious actor could
theoretically take control of global climate, or even some well-intentioned
organization that thinks it's doing the right thing.”

> “It may sound like the plot of a Bond movie, but some nefarious actor could
> theoretically take control of global climate, or even some well-intentioned
> organization that thinks it's doing the right thing.”
>
> Mark Borsuk, Duke Associate professor of Civil and environmental engineering

This is where Borsuk’s expertise in modeling complex decisions comes into
play. With support from a new National Science Foundation grant, Borsuk is
working with an interdisciplinary team of colleagues at Duke, NC State,
University of Wyoming, University of Waterloo and Appalachian State University
to investigate when people might choose to adopt an individual “quick fix”
strategy to a problem that would otherwise require long-term social
cooperation. The team is designing an experimental game that seeks to
understand when and why a party to a social problem might try to take
individual control of the solution instead of cooperating with others—or doing
nothing at all.

In the first stage of this game, each player has a pile of red and green
chips. An impending disaster threatens the red chips of the whole group, but
the green chips can be contributed to a common pool to protect a portion of
everyone’s red chips. This represents cooperative greenhouse gas mitigation.
In a second stage, players have the opportunity to spend green chips to
exclusively protect their own red chips.

The catch is that any green chips spent in excess of an unknown threshold will
threaten other players’ red chips. This represents, in a highly simplified
way, unilateral solar geoengineering. As subsequent rounds of the game
progress, players must make increasingly complex decisions about how much to
spend on their own protection versus the protection of the group. The
influence of each player is varied, and the heavyweights are sometimes able to
force the hands of others, much as wealthy entities in the real world might.

In cooperation with Durham, NC’s Museum of Life and Science, the team won a
Catalyst Program grant from the Nicholas Institute that will help translate
the experiment into a fun-to-play board game, via the Duke Game Lab.

“Climate change is a classic example of a social dilemma,” said Borsuk. “No
one country wants to cut emissions unless everyone else is doing it, and if
everyone else is doing it, you could then reap the benefits without
acting—something called the ‘free-rider effect.’”

But SRM with reflective particles is so cheap and easy to implement that some
actors might pull the trigger even if no one else supports taking action,
essentially becoming a “free-driver.”

“Then the problem becomes one not of cooperation, but rather of control, or
regulation,” said Borsuk.

The outcomes from the team’s experiments could certainly deepen understanding
of the social dimensions of geoengineering decision making—a priority
highlighted in a recent report from the National Academies. The findings might
also be extrapolated to similar scenarios where problem-solving has
traditionally involved the cooperation of entire communities, but for which
technological solutions are becoming more readily available. (Consider, for
example, how we might employ gene editing, rather than public health measures,
to confront disease; surveillance cameras, rather than neighborhood watch
programs, to thwart break-ins; and smart guns, rather than enhanced training,
to avert accidental shootings.)

Eventually, the team intends to invite game players who know more about the
high stakes of the real-life scenario—people such as climate negotiators—once
the details of the game are worked out and some more specific hypotheses are
formulated.

“We hope that our research will reveal ways to move beyond current thinking in
the negotiation of international agreements and illuminate paths to
cooperative solutions that benefit everyone,” he said.

More News from Duke CEE

## Related News

November 25, 2019

### When a 'Pros and Cons' List Won't Cut It

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

