

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# High Impact

November 16, 2016 | Mark Schreiner

Duke Engineering students report on their community development projects at
home and around the world

A rainwater catchment system in Madagascar. Water treatment beds in Honduras.
New school buildings in Uganda. A litter collection system for a creek in
Durham.

The challenges and accomplishments of these high-impact projects were detailed
during presentations by Pratt School of Engineering student members of Duke
Engineers for International Development (DEID) on Nov. 2 and 4.

DEID is a student-run organization that works with community partners on
projects that improve the lives of people in communities all over the world,
said Karyn Saunders, DEID co-president and environmental engineering major.

After working with communities to identify their needs, DEID collaborates with
professors and professional mentors during the school year to design solutions
that are then implemented in the following summer. Teams spend anywhere from a
few weeks to two months on-site. Many projects are completed over several
summers. David Schaad, Professor of the Practice of Civil and Environmental
Engineering at Duke, is the group's faculty advisor.

Students benefit along with their community and funding partners, learning
real-world design experience and finding solutions to engineering challenges
in developing communities.

During their presentations, DEID members detailed four recent projects.

Civil engineering major Charlie Pearlman explained how the DEID team worked
with local builders to create a concrete system for storing rainwater, to
improve life for the people of Manintenina, Madagascar. The new system creates
a clear source of water and reduces the time community members spend
collecting water.

As part of continuing work in El Pital, Honduras, Saunders showed how the
students fixed tropical storm damage to the community’s system for managing
wastewater from washing and installed new drainage beds.

In Kaihura, Uganda, in 2015, explained civil engineering majors Grace Park and
Rebecca Rothstein, a DEID team overcame technical and logistical challenges to
help a school build new brick classroom buildings to replace older wood
structures weakened by termite infestation.

Mechanical engineering major Ziad Elarab detailed a project located just 10
minutes from the Duke campus, in Durham’s Ellerbe Creek. It was important to
DEID, Elarab said, to have a project in the community that hosts Duke and its
students. The group is designing, in partnership with the Ellerbe Creek
Association, simple and cost-effective litter traps to collect trash without
disturbing the ecosystem along the urban creek.

Find out more about DEID at its website, sites.duke.edu/deid.

Videos of the presentations can be found below and on YouTube:

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

