

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# How to Make Nanoparticles

August 25, 2014

Duke's Stella Marinakos lives nanoparticles—producing and characterizing a
wide variety for researchers to use

One of the keystones of the scientific method is reproducibility. Without the
ability to check your own work—or others’ results—under the exact same
conditions with the exact same materials, findings become almost meaningless.
And you can forget about colleagues building on previous results.

That’s why Stella Marinakos’s job is so vital. She lives and breathes
nanoparticles, producing and characterizing a wide variety for researchers to
use in environmental experiments both here and abroad.

“Some researchers are conducting experiments with nanoparticles over the
course of several years,” says Marinakos, who works out of the laboratory of
Mark Wiesner, professor of civil and environmental engineering, on the campus
of Duke University. “Ideally, they need to use nanoparticles in year three
that are virtually identical to those they used in year one. My job is to get
them as close to perfection as possible.”

The Center for the Environmental Implications of NanoTechnology (CEINT) ties
together researchers around the world in an effort to explore the relationship
between the vast array of nanomaterials and their potential environmental
effects. And with scientists from six cornerstone universities, collaborators
from more than a half-dozen others, and partners from government laboratories
and industrial corporations, there’s always the need for more nanoparticles.

Marinakos produces silver- and gold-core nanoparticles of a variety of
parameters such as shape, size, concentration, stability, charge and coating.
At any given time, she has a catalogue of roughly a dozen different types that
CEINT researchers can request for their research as well as taking special
orders. In addition, she is often characterizing nanoparticles produced by
industrial companies so that the scientists using them know exactly what they
are dealing with.

“Sometimes it takes a few hours and sometimes, if it’s a nanoparticle I’ve
never dealt with before, it can take up to a week,” says Marinakos. “And if
I’m producing a nanoparticle I’ve never synthesized before and it turns out to
be demanding, it can take longer than that.”

So how exactly does one make nanoparticles? Marinakos explains that it
requires dissolving metal salts, adding reducing agents and stabilizers mixed
in a particular ratio, and often throwing in a heating session to get the
process rolling. Follow along to learn more about each step and, while you’re
at it, make the choices that will lead to your own designer nanoparticles.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

