

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# HTC Vive: A New Dimension of Creativity

November 13, 2015 | By Olivia Zhu

The HTC Vive, a 360 degree room-size virtual reality experience created by
Steam and HTC, offered demos on the Duke campus.

_Originally posted on theDuke Research Blog_

“I just threw eggs at the robot!” grad student , a fellow biomedical
engineering master’s student.

“He just said, ‘Thank you for the egg, human. Give me another one.’ It was
really fun.”

In what world does one throw eggs at grateful robots? In the virtual world of
the HTC Vive, a 360 degree room-size virtual reality experience created by
Steam and HTC that is now offering demos on the Duke campus from November 9 –
13. There is a noticeable buzz about Vive throughout campus.

I stepped in to the atrium of Fitzpatrick CIEMAS expecting a straightforward
demonstration of how to pick up objects and look around in virtual reality.
Instead, I found myself standing on the bow of a realistic ship, face to face
with a full-size blue whale.

Peering over the side of the shipwreck into a deep ravine, I seriously
pondered what would happen if I jumped over the railing –even though both my
feet were planted firmly on the ground of CIEMAS.

Armentrout observed that the Vive differentiates itself from other VR devices
like Oculus by allowing a full range of motion of the head: “I could actually
bend down and look at the floorboards of the ship.”

In Valve’s Aperture Science demo, based on their game Portal, I attempted to
repair a broken robot so real it was terrifying. I was nearly blown to bits by
my robot overseer when I failed at my task. In total, I progressed through
four modules, including the shipwreck, robot repair, a cooking lesson, and
Tiltbrush, a three-dimensional drawing experience.

Game developers naturally are pursuing in virtual reality, but technologies
like HTC Vive have implications far beyond the gaming realm. One of the
applications of the Vive, explained one of the Vive representatives, could be
virtual surgeries in medical schools. Medical schools could conserve cadavers
by assigning medical students to learn operations on virtual bodies instead of
human bodies. The virtual bodies would ideally provide the same experience as
the operating room itself, revolutionizing the teaching of hands-on surgical
skills.

Gade brainstormed further potential applications, such as using robots
controlled by virtual reality to navigate search-and-rescue situations after a
crisis, reducing danger to rescue crews.

The first time I tried the HTC Vive was not at Duke; it was at a Tiltbrush art
show in San Francisco.

On the stage, an artist was moving her limbs in grand arcs as she painted the
leaves of trees and brushing the ground to create a sparkling river. A large
screen projected her virtual 3-D masterpiece for the audience.

Gilded frames on stands emphasized the interactive Vive devices, each of which
housed a Tiltbrush masterpiece created by a local artist trained in the
technique. Well-dressed attendees marvelled at seemingly invisible waterfalls
and starry skies in the virtual reality paintings. Clearly, the Vive, by
opening another dimension of artistic creation, is changing our notions of
space and pushing the bounds of creativity.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

