

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Huang Wins 2019 ASME Mow Medal

February 4, 2019

Award recognizes Huang’s contributions to the field of bioengineering through
his pioneering work on acoustofluidics

Tony Jun Huang, the William Bevan Professor of Mechanical Engineering and
Materials Science at Duke University, has been awarded the 2019 Van C. Mow
Medal by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME).

The Van C. Mow Medal is bestowed upon an individual who has demonstrated
meritorious contributions to the field of bioengineering through research,
education, professional development, leadership in the development of the
profession, mentorship to young bioengineers, and with service to the
bioengineering community.

Huang was cited for his “pioneering work on acoustofluidics which leads us to
understand the interplays among acoustic waves, fluids and particles in the
micro/nano scale as well as enables us to probe intriguing biological
processes, pathogen-host interactions, cancer immunotherapy, developmental
biology and biomarker discovery.”

A leader in the fields of microfluidics, acoustofluidics and lab-on-a-chip
technologies, Huang explores ways of using sound waves to precisely manipulate
and detect fluids and particles—such as cells, extracellular vesicles and
proteins—inside fluids. His goal is to develop these technologies into new
diagnoses and treatments for various diseases such as cancer, Alzheimer’s
disease, placental health and traumatic brain injury.

Since joining Duke’s faculty in 2016, Huang has made important strides toward
realizing these goals. He has used soundwaves to create tiny whirlpools to
concentrate proteins and other biological structures from biological fluids,
to gently separate circulating tumor cells from blood samples to one day
provide ‘liquid biopsies,’ and to create a microfluidic platform that avoids
contamination for reusable lab-on-a-chip devices.

Huang has been elected a fellow of five professional societies: the American
Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering (AIMBE), the American Society
of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers (IEEE), the Institute of Physics (IOP), and the Royal Society of
Chemistry (RSC). His research has been recognized through several awards and
honors such as a 2010 National Institutes of Health (NIH) Director’s New
Innovator Award, the 2014 IEEE Sensors Council Technical Achievement Award,
and the 2017 Analytical Chemistry Young Innovator Award.

The ASME is a not-for-profit membership organization that enables
collaboration, knowledge sharing, career enrichment, and skills development
across all engineering disciplines, toward a goal of helping the global
engineering community develop solutions to benefit lives and livelihoods.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

