

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Hurricane Season

September 28, 2022

Hurricane season is here. Here’s what you should know about flooding,
floodwater contaminants, and those baffling spaghetti models

**Are hurricanes going to get worse?**

Most projections say that our climate is on a trajectory that will continue to
grow wetter and warmer. According to scientists at the National Center for
Atmospheric Research, that suggests that future hurricanes could dump even
more rain where they hit.

How can vulnerable areas prepare? How well can we estimate where flooding will
occur the next time around? And why can't we make better predictions about
where hurricanes will hit?

Experts in Duke University’s Civil and Environmental Engineering department
answer some of these critical questions.

Andrew Bragg: Predicting Hurricanes

Nathaniel Chaney: Inland Flooding

Heileen Hsu-Kim: Toxic Contaminants

* * *

## Q&A: Why Hurricanes are So Unpredictable

Andrew Bragg, Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

### In this day and age, why can’t we accurately predict where a hurricane
will make landfall, or how strong it will be?

There are basically two answers to this: the first is associated with our
imperfect knowledge of the initial hurricane conditions, and the second is our
imperfect hurricane models.

When you try to predict a hurricane, one of the things you need to know is the
initial conditions of the system. You take those initial conditions and run
them with the model, and then try to predict the future state of the
hurricane.

In predicting the path of a hurricane, you need to know information about,
say, the initial humidity, temperature, wind speed and so on—and you can never
know those perfectly, because measurements that come from instrumentation
always have some kind of uncertainty associated with them.

Now—if you’re trying to make predictions for a simple system, this is really
not an issue, because a small error in your initial conditions will just lead
to a small error in the final prediction. Think about firing a cannonball, for
example. If you make a tiny miscalculation in the angle of the cannon, that
will lead to a very small error in predicting where the cannonball will land,
and so the small error in the initial condition is not very consequential.

However, weather systems like hurricanes are not at all like that, because
they are chaotic. For a chaotic system, tiny errors in the initial conditions
are amplified with time, so that your prediction for the long-term behavior of
the system can be in enormous error, despite the fact that errors in your
initial conditions were miniscule.

Since we can never know exactly what the initial conditions are for
hurricanes, then even in principle it's impossible to perfectly predict the
behavior of hurricanes, including their path and strength.

The second thing that makes hurricanes so difficult to predict is that they
are incredibly complex and therefore very difficult to model. Hurricane models
are very imperfect since they do not fully capture all of the complex physics
associated with this kind of weather system. So even if we did know the
initial conditions perfectly—which we don't—we still would not be able to
perfectly predict hurricanes, because of imperfections in the models we have.

### With every hurricane, forecasters show “spaghetti models” that show a
number of projected paths. How are we supposed to interpret all of these
possible outcomes?

Let's suppose you represent the initial state or condition of the weather
system not with a single point, but with a region—the region representing the
fact that you don't know exactly what the initial conditions are. Then you run
a model with different initial conditions drawn from this region of
uncertainty. Each time you run the model you'll get a slightly different
prediction, because you've used a different initial condition—different
initial temperature, humidity, or wind speed. You run the model many times
using the different initial conditions, and that creates an ensemble of
predictions. These predictions allow you to say, "I don't know _exactly_ where
the hurricane is going to make landfall, but I can say statistically, within a
certain amount of _probability,_ where it's going to land and what category
it's going to be when it makes landfall."

You could also make an ensemble using a single set of initial conditions, but
using a multiplicity of weather models.

The key point is that hurricanes are so complex that we can never make
perfect, precise predictions, but using these ensemble predictions we can make
meaningful and important probabilistic predictions.

### Can the models be engineered to improve accuracy?

Yes, one of the ways models can be engineered to improve accuracy is to
improve the representation of the so-called "unresolved physics."

Numerical weather models are solved on a computational grid, and you’d like
the grid resolution to be as small as possible to resolve all of the relevant
physics. But the problem is that the finer the grid, the more grid points you
have, and then the more grid points you have, the longer it takes to run the
model on a computer.

A typical weather model will be solved on a grid whose resolution is several
kilometers, which is a million times larger than the scale at which some of
the key hurricane processes take place. For example, one of the things that
drives the behavior of hurricanes is the condensation of water vapor, and
that's a process that takes place on a scale of micrometers and is affected by
really complex phenomena such as small-scale air turbulence.

The small-scale processes that are not resolved in the simulation therefore
have to be parameterized, and the parametrizations are, quite frankly, often
very crude.

The more powerful the computer, the smaller the grid resolution you can use,
and therefore the less reliant you are on these parameterizations. So, the
development of computational resources is one of the things that will improve
the degree to which hurricanes can be accurately modeled.

However, it's going to be a long time before computers are powerful enough for
us to be able to resolve all of the physical processes governing hurricanes.
As a result, improving the parametrizations in the models is crucial. A key
point here is that in order to model something faithfully, you really have to
first understand it, and the fact is that many of the key processes that
happen on the small scales aren’t understood very well at all. For example,
the air in the atmosphere is very turbulent at the small scales, and that can
cause large fluctuations in the temperature of the air, which affects the rate
at which these condensational processes take place. But that process is not
very well understood, and the current model parametrizations used for it
therefore may be very imprecise—we just don't know. This is one of the areas
that my lab focuses on: understanding and modeling turbulent flows.

So, another way we can develop better improve the models is by understanding
these fundamental, small-scale processes better, and that will then allow us
to parameterize them more faithfully. And then the goal is that we can use
these improved parameters in large-scale weather forecasting, with the end
goal that we improve the predictions from the models.

**Andrew Bragg** is an assistant professor of civil & environmental
engineering at Duke and runs the Duke Theoretical and Computational Fluid
Dynamics Group, which works to better understand and model the motion of
turbulent fluids in the environment.

* * *

## Q&A: Why We Flood Inland, Too

Nathaniel Chaney, Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

### It seemed that every time it rained in Durham in the fall of 2018, long
after the hurricanes had passed, there was another flash flood warning. Why?

Overall, (2018) was very wet in Durham. What made matters worse was that
Hurricane Florence thoroughly soaked the soils, setting the stage for what
seemed to be the incessant storms that followed. Here in North Carolina,
especially in the Piedmont, our soils are mostly clay, and water infiltrates
at a much slower rate through clay than through sand. Basically, the soil
doesn’t soak up water as well. The water runs into streams, the streams
overflow their banks and rush into the floodplains, thus enhancing the flood
risk. Add onto that the ever-increasing urbanization in the Triangle and the
region’s high clay content soils and you had all the ingredients for the
persistent flood risks that we faced.

### Are urban areas more or less likely to flood?

In general, urbanization will increase the chances of flooding since paved
areas are not nearly as effective at absorbing rainwater as soils are. As a
result, it is much easier for the falling rain to make it into the stormwater
drainage system and streams in a shorter time period, thus enhancing the flood
risk. That being said, this is one of the reasons why flood control
infrastructure such as retention ponds is built—since it helps slow down the
release of rainwater into the streams and thus decreases flood risk. For
example, in my own home, we have a rain garden that helps temporarily hold the
water that runs off from our driveway, roof, and lawn into the local stream.

### Is there a way to predict how badly different areas will flood?

Scientists use computer models to predict flooding, but the models rely on
detailed maps that describe the types of soils in a given region, where the
streams run, and where paved areas lie. Knowing that information is necessary
for computer models to be able to take the predicted rainfall from weather
models to help determine where flooding might occur. One of the areas of my
research focuses on compiling all the different types of environmental data,
such as soil, vegetation, and elevation—information that can be used for these
computer models. And then I use machine learning algorithms and available
satellite information to merge all these different data sources to provide the
best possible spatial maps that describe the land characteristics—for example,
the clay content in the soils. These data are necessary to predict where and
when it is going to flood.

**Nathaniel Chaney** is an assistant professor of civil and environmental
engineering at Duke University. His research group uses numerical modeling,
satellite remote sensing, machine learning, and high-performance computing to
better understand the terrestrial water cycle.

* * *

## Q&A: Why Floodwaters Pose Unseen Risks

Heileen Hsu-Kim, Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

### After significant flooding from hurricanes, we’ve seen soil and water in
affected areas become contaminated with toxic materials. How exactly does
flooding cause contamination?

The soil at active or closed industrial sites can be contaminated with toxic
metals or organic compounds that don’t degrade. When there’s a flooding event,
like a hurricane, the water can pick up the contaminated soil and move it to
other places, and then the contaminants leach out. Basically, flooding
distributes pollution. It brings contaminants out of isolation, to places
where they could be a danger to people and animals. Those contaminants can
travel as far as the soil particles travel—so, as far as the floodwater goes.

When Hurricane Harvey came through Texas we saw this happen. There are a lot
of petrochemical industries in that area of the country, and some closed sites
are contaminated with chemicals, like hydrocarbons and other kinds of
solvents, and metals, like chromium, mercury, or lead, that could be hazardous
to people.

### Doesn’t boiling water make it safe to drink?

Boiling water can kill microbes and pathogens, but it can’t get rid of
chemical contaminants, or make them less hazardous.

### Won’t the floodwaters wash away the contaminants as they recede?

With a flooding event, everything is diluted. With the flooding that occurred
with Florence last year, the water overtopped a coal ash dam and mixed coal
ash into the surrounding environs. From what I remember of seeing some of the
measurements taken, the contaminants associated with coal ash—let’s take
arsenic, for example—was very really low in concentration because it was
diluted by water. The problem is that the flooding brought all this coal ash
out of the storage basin and into the environment, and we don’t know how much
ash is now in an uncontrolled place, re-depositing and re-concentrating in
other locations.

Over the long term, that is a problem because when the floodwaters recede, the
volume of water goes away but the mass of the contaminant is still there. It
becomes more concentrated.

In my lab, we have done a lot of work looking at coal ash storage ponds and
release of contaminants, focusing on what chemical forms they take. For
example, we ask what form of arsenic is in coal ash? The answer really matters
because how much of the contaminant leaches off depends on the chemical form
the arsenic takes. Some forms are more toxic than others.

### What effects could these contaminants have?

The chemical exposure risks are not limited to people. They also create risks
to wildlife. For example, coal ash contains a lot of selenium, and selenium is
an ecotoxin. It isn’t as much of a problem for us, as humans, but it’s a
teratogen for fish, meaning it causes embryos to be malformed. Selenium from
coal ash ponds can affect fish populations in neighboring bodies of water—this
has been known for decades. And when you disrupt a major component of the food
web, you cause a lot of damage to the ecosystem. It takes a while for that
ecosystem to recover.

**Heileen Hsu-Kim** is an environmental engineer who specializes in
environmental aquatic chemistry and geochemistry. She is an expert on
pollutant metals and the biogeochemical processes that alter their
distribution in water, soil and air. She has performed extensive research on
coal ash, studying its environmental impacts and developing techniques for
rare earth metals extraction.

Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics at Duke

> "When there’s a flooding event, like a hurricane, the water can pick up the
> contaminated soil and move it to other places, and then the contaminants
> leach out. Basically, flooding distributes pollution."
>
> Heileen Hsu-KIm, Associate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

## Related News

October 28, 2021

### Including Small, Sharp Landscape Contrasts Refines Weather Forecasts

February 04, 2021

### Re-Engineering the Consumer Product Life Cycle

December 16, 2019

### Understanding How Energy Travels Through Turbulence

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

