

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Researchers Create Artificial Organelles to Control Cellular Behavior

August 3, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

New form of synthetic biology for controlling cellular behavior uses
intrinsically disordered proteins

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have demonstrated a method for
controlling the phase separation of an emerging class of proteins to create
artificial membrane-less organelles within human cells. The advance, similar
to controlling how vinegar forms droplets within oil, creates opportunities
for engineering synthetic structures to modulate existing cell functions or
create entirely new behaviors within cells.

The results appear online on August 3 in the journal Nature Chemistry.

Proteins function by folding into specific 3-D shapes that interact with
different biomolecular structures. Researchers previously believed that
proteins needed these fixed shapes to function. But in the last two decades, a
large new class of intrinsically disordered proteins (IDPs) have been
discovered that have large regions that are “floppy”—that is, they do not fold
into a defined 3-D shape. It is now understood these regions play an
important, previously unrecognized role in controlling various cellular
functions.

IDPs are also useful for biomedical applications because they can undergo
phase transitions—changing from a liquid to a gel, for example, or from a
soluble to an insoluble state, and back again—in response to environmental
triggers, like changes in temperature. These features also dictate their phase
behavior in cellular environments and are controlled by adjusting
characteristics of the IDPs such as their molecular weight or the sequence in
which the amino acids are linked together.

“Although there are many natural IDPs that show phase behavior in cells, they
come in many different flavors, and it has been difficult to discern the rules
that govern this behavior,” said Ashutosh Chilkoti, the Alan L. Kaganov
Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering at Duke. “This paper
provides very simple engineering principles to program this behavior within a
cell.”

“Others in the field have taken a top-down approach where they’ll make a
change to a natural IDP and see how its behavior changes within a cell,” said
Michael Dzuricky, a research scientist working in the Chilkoti laboratory and
first author of the study. “We’re taking the opposite approach and building
our own artificial IDPs from simple thermodynamic principles. This enables us
and others to precisely tune a single property—the shape of the IDPs phase
diagram—to better understand how this parameter affects biological behavior”

In the new paper, the researchers begin by looking to nature for examples of
IDPs that come together to form “biomolecular condensates” within cells. These
weakly-held-together structures allow cells to create compartments without
also building a membrane to encapsulate it. Using one such IDP from the common
fruit fly as a basis, the researchers draw from their extensive history of
working with IDPs to engineer a molecularly simpler artificial version that
retains the same behavior.

This simpler version allowed the researchers to make precise changes to the
molecular weight of the IDP and amino acids of the IDPs. The researchers show
that, depending on how these two variables are tweaked, the IDPs come together
to form these compartments at different temperatures in a test tube. And by
consistently trying various tweaks and temperatures, the researchers gained a
solid understanding of which design parameters are most important to control
the IDP’s behavior.

A test tube, however, is not the same as a living cell, so the researchers
then went one step further to demonstrate how their engineered IDPs behave
within _E. coli_. As predicted, their artificial IDPs grouped together to form
a tiny droplet within the cell’s cytoplasm. And because the IDP’s behavior was
now so well understood, the researchers showed they could predictably control
how they coalesced using their test tube principles as a guide.

“We were able to change temperatures in cells to develop a complete
description of their phase behavior, which mirrored our test tube
predictions,” said Dzuricky. “At this point, we were able to design different
artificial IDP systems where the droplets that are formed have different
material properties.”

Put another way, because the researchers understood how to manipulate the size
and composition of the IDPs to respond to temperature, they could program the
IDPs to form droplets or compartments of varying densities within cells. To
show how this ability might be useful to biomedical engineers, the researchers
then used their newfound knowledge, as nature often does, to create an
organelle that performs a specific function within a cell.

The researchers showed that they could use the IDPs to encapsulate an enzyme
to control its activity level. By varying the molecular weight of the IDPs,
the IDPs hold on the enzyme either increased or decreased, which in turn
affected how much it could interact with the rest of the cell.

To demonstrate this ability, the researchers chose an enzyme used by _E. coli_
to convert lactose into usable sugars. However, in this case, the researchers
tracked this enzyme’s activity with a fluorescent reporter in real-time to
determine how the engineered IDP organelle was affecting enzyme activity.

In the future, the researchers believe they could use their new IDP organelles
to control the activity levels of biomolecules important to disease states. Or
to learn how natural IDPs fill similar cellular roles and understand how and
why they sometimes malfunction.

“This is the first time anybody has been able to precisely define how the
protein sequence controls phase separation behavior inside cells,” said
Dzuricky. “We used an artificial system, but we think that the same rules
apply to natural IDPs and are excited to begin testing this theory.”

“We can also now start to program this type of phase behavior with any protein
in a cell by fusing them to these artificial IDPs,” said Chilkoti. “We hope
that these artificial IDPs will provide new tool for synthetic biology to
control cell behavior.”

This research was supported by the National Institutes of Health (R35GM127042)
and the National Science Foundation (DMR-17-29671, CHE-1709735).

“De Novo Engineering of Intracellular Condensates using Artificial Disordered
Proteins.” Michael Dzuricky, Bradley A. Rogers, Abdulla Shahid, Paul S.
Cremer, Ashutosh Chilkoti. Nature Chemistry, 2020. DOI:
10.1038/s41557-020-0511-7

## Related News

October 15, 2018

### Biomaterials with "Frankenstein Proteins" Help Heal Tissue

January 30, 2017

### Engineered "Spaghetti-Ball" Proteins Provide Biomedical Insights

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

