

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Inaugural Precision Medicine Conference Held at Duke

November 5, 2019

Hosted by the Woo Center for Big Data and Precision Medicine, the new
conference brought together leaders in data-driven approaches to improving
health

When the Sherry and John Woo Center for Big Data and Precision Medicine (DAP)
was launched at Duke University in 2018, director Xiling Shen knew he wanted
the center to convene innovators working in the emerging field of precision
medicine––no matter where in the world they do that work—by brining top-notch
researchers from multidisciplinary backgrounds, ranging from clinicians,
biologists, engineers, and computer scientists.

This idea became a reality on October 24, when DAP hosted its first annual
symposium on big data and precision health. Featuring presentations by leading
researchers from universities and research institutions across the globe, the
day-long symposium highlighted work spanning wearable technology, machine
learning, new approaches to improve cancer therapies and ways to address
ongoing health disparities.

“Our hope was to provide both researchers at Duke and visiting innovators a
chance to hear and generate new ideas and create new collaborations, leading
to scientific and technological breakthroughs in precision medicine and
ultimately, to a healthier world,” said Shen.

“This was truly a fantastic event,” said Dr. Jenny Chang, the director of the
Houston Methodist Cancer Center, who gave a presentation covering breast
cancer research and enhancing response rates to cancer therapies. “The
symposium topics transcended data science, biology, patient care outcomes and
health disparities––it was a really great overview of important work in the
field.”

The event brought together researchers from across Duke, with presentations
from Vice President for Research Lawrence Carin, Department of Biomedical
Engineering chair Ashutosh Chilkoti and professors Jessilyn Dunn and Charles
Gersbach, and Duke Health physician-scientists Drs. Jatin Roper and Neil
Surana.

“It was fascinating to see the level of collaboration across Duke in relation
to these different projects,” said Dr. Hans Clevers, director of the Hubrecht
Institute for Developmental Biology and Stem Cell Research at Utrecht
University in the Netherlands. “That’s not something you see everywhere, and
these presentations showed a unique mix of the most modern technologies and
approaches in health data and precision medicine.”

The event was also packed with innovative guest speakers from far-flung
locations, including Clevers, who delivered the keynote address on the use of
organoids, or mini-organs, to better model human disease; Dr. Steven Lipkin,
vice chair for research and director of the Cancer Genetics Clinic at Cornell
University; Luis Saraiva, director of the Metabolism and Diabetes Program at
Sidra Medicine in Doha, Qatar; and Jessie Tenenbaum, chief data officer at the
NC Department of Health and Human Services.

Dr. Calvin Kuo, vice chair of research and leader of the Cancer Biology
Program at Stanford University, delivered the symposium’s plenary lecture,
describing his own work with organoids and personalized medicine.

“The symposium showed the really incredible diversity of extremely
translational science in this field, and how we can start to bridge the gap to
use precision medicine to improve patient care,” said Kuo. “It was an
excellent event, and I was thrilled to be a part of it.”

Although most speakers hailed from academia, a lunch session also highlighted
organizations that support innovative research in precision medicine. During
his talk, Jonah Cool, director of the Human Cell Atlas of the Chan-Zuckerberg
Initiative and a Duke alum, discussed various collaborative projects and
funding opportunities available through the initiative.

“I was really impressed with the diversity of speakers working at the
intersection of precision medicine and health data,” said Cool. “It was also
interesting to see people take a pragmatic and critical approach to data,
which you don’t always see--such as the discussion in Dr. Tenenbaum’s
presentation regarding bias potential problems with data collection. It was a
highly informative event.”

In addition to these presentations, the conference included talks and a poster
session highlighting recent successes from DAP. Students, post-doctoral
fellows and other researchers from the center discussed various projects
pertaining to the three focuses of DAP: artificial intelligence in medical
imaging, health data science and precision medicine.

“Duke is already at the forefront of bringing big data and precision medicine
into clinical practice,” said Shen. “The Woo Center has given us the
opportunity to transform health data into actionable health insights, and we
were thrilled to share some of that work with our collaborators and attendees
during the inaugural DAP symposium.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

