

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# The Physics of Wealth Inequality

March 28, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

Law of physics explain natural drivers of wealth inequality

A Duke University professor has proposed an explanation for why the income
disparity in America between the rich and poor continues to grow. It is, he
says, part of the laws of physics.

"The laws of physics govern how things move, and nothing moves unless it is
pushed," said Adrian Bejan, professor of mechanical engineering and materials
science at Duke University. "Pushing requires power, and power requires fuel,
whether it is food that powers the human body or gasoline that powers cars.
And the amount of fuel consumed by a nation is directly related to its
economic growth. So really, physics and economics are two sides of the same
coin."

The physics law dictating income disparity and a variety of other phenomena is
one that Bejan discovered in 1996. The constructal law states that in order to
survive, any flowing system must evolve to increase its access to flow. For
example, the human vascular system has evolved to provide blood flow access
through a few large arteries that branch into many small capillaries. River
systems and trees show the same evolution, he says.

In a new paper published on March 28, 2017, in the Journal of Applied Physics,
Bejan argues that the same natural tendency governs the flow of goods,
services and money in the world's economies.

All movement, he says, is naturally hierarchical. Our highway systems operate
through a few large, high-capacity highways and many smaller, local roads. The
fleet of vehicles upon them shows the same trend, with fewer large semis and
busses moving big loads over long distances while many smaller passenger cars
carry local individuals. Even the animal kingdom exhibits this design, with
enormous species containing few individuals that travel long distances and
tiny species with many individuals who stay relatively in the same place, all
living together on the same finite area.

"If movement is hierarchical, naturally, then so is the wealth," said Bejan.

Society began, Bejan says, as little more than a group of huts, with everyone
being more or less equally poor. As communities built paths and became more
connected, movement began to increase, as did their economies -- and wealth
inequality. This never-ending trend is alive and well today with
globalization, where the ever-expanding movement of goods continues to create
greater nonuniformity in the distribution of wealth over the population.

As time moves forward and societies evolve, movement and energy consumption
grow and economic disparities naturally become greater. There is, however, a
caveat.

"As wealth inequalities grow, the population demands more equality," said
Bejan. "With developed representative governments, laws are passed to push the
line back toward more equality. But as time moves on, the inequality begins to
grow again and people are always curious as to why inequality is difficult to
erase. This phenomenon is a natural law of physics, and as such it cannot be
avoided."

"Indeed, some governments have tried to impose equality overnight, leading to
tragic results," Bejan said. "Just look at the Bolshevik Revolution. Within
days of trying to install universal equality, there were already government
insiders and party leaders who had enormous power and wealth. Today in Russia
oligarchs have the wealth. Physics always wins."

This research was supported by the National Science Foundation.

"Wealth inequality: The physics basis." A. Bejan and M.R. Errera. JAP, 2017.
DOI: 10.1063/1.4977962

###

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

