

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Reinvented Toilets to Debut In Two Indian Cities

November 19, 2018 | By Mara Shurgot

Plan includes densely populated Warangal in Telangana and Narsapur in Andhra
Pradesh

The Indian cities of Warangal in Telangana and Narsapur in Andhra Pradesh will
be the first two densely populated urban cities in the world to showcase an
innovative reinvented toilet designed and engineered by the Duke University
Center for WaSH-AID and their partners at Biomass Controls, LLC.

The reinvented toilet requires no sewer hook-up and processes liquid and solid
waste on-site. Liquid waste is treated through active filtration, activated
carbon and electrochemical disinfection, resulting in pathogen-free water that
can be reused for flushing, irrigation or washing. The solid waste is
homogenized, pelletized and dried—creating a pathogen-free solid that can be
combusted on-site, burned as fuel or used as an agricultural supplement.

For the past few years, the reinvented toilet has undergone field testing in
smaller communities in India and South Africa. This will be the first time the
system will be located in urban areas, each with several million people.

The Center for WaSH-AID and the Administrative Staff College of India (ASCI)
have signed a memorandum of understanding to bring the reinvented toilet to
these two communities as part of a new Sanitation Innovation Hub. Established
in 1956, ASCI is a think tank that informs public policy and increases
capacity at the intersection of government and industry across India.

Srinivas Chary, the director of ASCI's Centre for Energy, Environment, Urban
Governance and Infrastructure Development, and his team have worked with
Narsapur and Warangal over the past five years to design city-wide sanitation
models. Through the partnership, these cities have adopted a number of
innovative approaches that involve key stakeholder feedback, new technologies,
regulatory advances, extensive public-private partnerships, and significant
investments in shared public toilets and households.

"These cities want to leapfrog and set new benchmarks in urban sanitation by
adopting disruptive processes and technologies," said Chary. "Partnership with
Duke University and Biomass Controls is a welcome opportunity and we are very
excited to work with Dr. Brian Stoner and the research team at the Center for
WaSH-AID."

ASCI will identify appropriate sites in Warangal and Narsapur in the first
quarter of 2019 and WaSH-AID will install the reinvented toilets by the end of
the second quarter. Chary and his team will work closely with WaSH-AID and
Biomass to evaluate water re-use of treated discharge and evaluate any other
bi-product outputs, such as biochar charcoal, for potential commercial
applications.

As part of ASCI's effort to insure that the needs of women and girls are met,
the reinvented toilet will include menstrual hygiene management, the S.H.E.
module—a thermal treatment unit that incinerates sanitary pads without
emitting hazardous gases or particulates. The team will also explore potential
Biomass Biogenic Refinery sites—a community-scale solid waste processing unit
that could process waste from a large number of reinvented toilets—a hub and
spoke approach to sanitation without sewers.

"This is an exciting opportunity for our team to showcase the new reinvented
toilet technologies, to solicit user feedback and to attract public and
private partnerships necessary to accelerate the impact of non-sewered
sanitation technologies in India and around the world," said Brian Stoner,
director of the Center for WaSH-AID and research professor of electrical and
computer engineering at Duke. "We are honored to be working with Professor
Chary and his team at ASCI to make this technology part of the growing
Sanitation Innovation Hub they are building."

Throughout the project, the partners will provide maintenance and educational
materials in support of the toilets, solicit feedback from stakeholders, and
disseminate this new knowledge by offering capacity-building programs for
practitioners and other interest groups.

The Center for WaSH-AID is a translational research team that works closely
with more than 20 academic, non-profit, and private industry partners to
facilitate the development and sustainable deployment of novel technology-
based health solutions for resource-constrained communities around the world.

Biomass Controls, LLC, is a U.S.-based company with offices in Durham, North
Carolina, focused on developing solutions, including decentralized
technologies with remote monitoring software, in response to water and
sanitation challenges around the world.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

