

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Machine Learning Company Infinia ML Partners with Duke to Prepare the Next
Generation of Entrepreneurs to Make Business Impact

September 5, 2018

Innovative undergraduate instruction will equip future engineers,
entrepreneurs and startups to strategically leverage machine learning in
business

_Posted by Infinia ML_

Infinia ML, an advanced machine learning company that delivers automation
solutions and predictive analytics to enterprise businesses, today announced a
partnership with Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering to integrate
machine learning into the school’s entrepreneurial instruction.

Starting in the 2018-2019 school year, engineering students will attend
lectures on machine learning from Infinia ML leaders including CEO Robbie
Allen and executive chairman Mike Salvino. In addition, Infinia ML will work
with Duke startups to implement machine learning in their businesses. Infinia
ML’s endeavors will support the work of Steve McClelland, Duke Engineering’s
entrepreneur in residence leading undergraduate entrepreneurship efforts.

“Machine learning is an evolving and important tool that’s changing how
businesses approach and solve problems,” says McClelland. “Understanding its
strengths, limitations and opportunities helps entrepreneurs deliver unique
solutions, value and services to customers. Duke students will benefit from
access to Infinia ML’s experience in applying these tools to solve real-world
problems.”

With this partnership, supported by a $25,000 contribution from Infinia ML,
the company builds on its significant Duke University connections. The company
is a spin-out from the machine learning lab of Lawrence Carin, PhD, professor
of electrical and computer engineering and vice provost for research at Duke.
Other Blue Devils on the Infinia ML team include assistant professor Ricardo
Henao, visiting faculty member Hongteng Xu, PhD graduate Ya Xue, and
postdoctoral associate Ikenna Odinaka.

“Machine learning is driving business value across a wide variety of
industries and use cases, but we believe the most exciting applications are
yet to come,” said Infinia CEO Robbie Allen. “We’re excited to help the next
generation of Duke entrepreneurs build the next generation of machine learning
solutions, products, and businesses.”

“The opportunities this partnership will provide dovetail perfectly with our
strategy to increase student interactions with industry practitioners so that
they are well exposed to real-world situations and problems while at Duke
Engineering,” said Ravi Bellamkonda, the Vinik Dean of the Pratt School of
Engineering.

**About Infinia ML**

Infinia ML is a team of advanced machine learning experts focused on making
business impact. The company helps enterprise clients reduce costs, increase
efficiency, and achieve breakthroughs with data science. Infinia ML serves
industries from manufacturing and healthcare to marketing and human resources.
The company's capabilities include natural language processing, recommendation
engines, object detection, 3D image modeling, and anomaly detection.

The Durham, North Carolina company is led by CEO Robbie Allen, an experienced
AI entrepreneur, Chief Scientist Lawrence Carin, one of the world's most
published machine learning experts and Duke University's vice provost for
research, and Executive Chairman and Carrick Capital Partners Managing
Director Mike Salvino. Together, the Infinia ML team holds seven PhDs and has
produced 31 patents, 11 books, and more than 575 published papers.

InfiniaML.com

**About** **Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering**

The Pratt School of Engineering at Duke University is a vibrant teaching and
research institution dedicated to training the next generation of leaders and
exploring the frontiers of engineering to develop solutions to the world’s
greatest challenges. Ranked among the top 20 engineering schools in the nation
by _U.S. News & World Report_, the school seeks to prepare engineers with the
intellectual agility and motivation to make a positive impact on society while
leading productive, ethical, and rewarding lives. With more than $70 million
in annual research expenditures, Duke Engineering is home to faculty ranked
among the top in the nation in research productivity. More than 40 companies
based on Duke faculty technology have been launched to date, including five in
the past year.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

