

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Innovative Scholars

April 1, 2018

An overview of faculty startups in Duke BME

**Charlie Gersbach:** **Launching a Platform for Genomics-Based Drug
Development**

Prior to starting his own company, Charles Gersbach sought advice from a
number of Duke BME faculty entrepreneurs on the best way to get started. But
what he learned was surprising.

“When we asked people what process they went through to found a business,
basically everyone told us something different,” says Gersbach. “Initially our
idea was just to learn from their formula, but it was clear that there wasn’t
just one path to success.”

When he first started at Duke in 2009, Gersbach wasn’t focused on
entrepreneurial work. But as he began to win grants and publish research in
the field of genome editing and genome engineering, it drew the attention of
several pharmaceutical companies who wanted to use his technology for improved
drug development.

“I was working on characterizing the non-coding genome, which is essentially
the 98 percent of our genome that we don’t fully understand, and there was
evidence that it plays a large role in drug response and disease
susceptibility.

I was developing tools for perturbing that portion of the genome, and that
process opened up a whole new class of drug targets for common diseases,” says
Gersbach. “Through our discussions with several pharmaceutical companies we
realized the technology was something that could go beyond our academic lab.”

In August of 2015, Gersbach approached Barry Myers in the Duke-Coulter
Translational Partnership, which had supported Gersbach’s research at Duke,
for help to form a startup. Within 48 hours, Gersbach and his collaborators
Tim Reddy and Gregory Crawford had formed Element Genomics, Inc. The team
received further support from Duke in the form of John Oxaal, who was then
working as the Entrepreneur-in-Residence at Duke BME. Oxaal, an alumnus of
Duke Engineering and a serial entrepreneur himself, worked with the team to
finalize licenses and find space in an incubator in Durham, eventually serving
as CEO of the company.

The company is up and running with 12 employees and is currently located in
the Chesterfield building to take advantage of the entrepreneurial culture
created by other co-located BME-based startups in Durham. Today, the team
continues to refine and develop their high-throughput platform to identify new
drug targets for common diseases while they pursue more funding opportunities.
“There’s a growing culture for entrepreneurial work in the BME department,”
says Gersbach. “I’m one of many faculty who have been influenced by that.”

**Mike Lynch: From Entrepreneurship to Academia**

Michael Lynch was a postdoctoral researcher at the University of Colorado when
he founded his first company, OPX Biotechnologies, in 2007, but he soon threw
himself into working full-time to build the startup’s footprint in functional
genomics technology. But prior to the company’s acquisition in 2015, Lynch
decided to return to his academic roots.

“By the time the board was ready to sell the company we had been scaling up
and doing a few small improvements here or there, but it wasn’t as exciting
for me from a technology standpoint,” Lynch says. “I knew I wanted to get back
into biomedical work and be more involved in the technology development, and I
also wanted to launch more companies, and for me, academia is a better place
to do that.”

By November of 2014, he was working as an assistant professor in Duke
University’s Department of Biomedical Engineering, drawing upon his expertise
in genomics to engineer microbes to produce useful chemicals. It wasn’t long
before Lynch founded DMC, based on a novel process that will allow researchers
to scale up and streamline the production of molecules used in flavors,
fragrances, agricultural chemicals and other commercial products.

“If you think about it from an entrepreneurial perspective, there are lots of
molecules you’d never make because they don’t cater to a large market or you
can’t commercialize them easily,” says Lynch. “For example, you can get
genetically modified E. coli to make what you want, but it traditionally takes
tens of millions of dollars to get the research and development done, so
earning any return on R&D investments is difficult. With DMC, we’re trying to
democratize access to these molecules.”

Lynch’s entrepreneurial perspective extends beyond his business. In his Duke
BME design classes, he encourages students to think strategically about the
needs of the marketplace and a product’s value to a customer when developing
their own technology. His lab will also become more entrepreneurial when it
moves next to BRiDGE, a space in the Chesterfield building in downtown Durham
for Duke BME students and faculty to grow new startups and ideas.

“Coming back to academia has allowed me to pursue riskier ideas, and even if
it doesn’t pay off I get to learn something new,” says Lynch.

**Warren Grill: Neuroengineering and Entrepreneurship**

For Warren Grill, running a small business isn’t much different than running a
research lab—and he’s had plenty of experience doing both.

In 2002, Grill founded NDI Medical based on technology his lab had developed
to use electrical stimulation to treat overactive bladder. Grill and his
partners sold the company to Medtronic in 2008, but by the next day they had
launched their next company, also called NDI Medical.

“We had assembled a really spectacular team, from engineering to regulatory to
clinical to legal, and we didn’t want those people to fly to the wind,” says
Grill. “We told them that they still had a job, we just didn’t know exactly
what we’d be doing yet.”

The second generation of NDI quickly became an incubator, where Grill and his
collaborators hunted for “medium-rare ideas” in electrical stimulation systems
that they could develop into products. To further their efforts, the team also
started the NDI Healthcare Fund, a small venture fund that raised money to
support the incubator.

Three companies were eventually ‘hatched’ from the incubator. The first,
Checkpoint Surgical, currently sells two FDA-approved products, including a
hand-held, disposable intraoperative stimulator that surgeons use to identify
and protect nerves in the surgical field. The second is SPR Therapeutics,
which develops devices to relieve chronic pain. Its main product is the
Sprint, which recently received FDA approval and includes an electrode that
goes through the skin and delivers electrical stimulation over the course of
several weeks to achieve durable pain relief.

Grill co-founded and acts as the CTO of the third company, Deep Brain
Innovations, or DBI. Based on intellectual property developed in his Duke lab,
the company is improving the efficacy of deep brain stimulation by changing
the temporal pattern of stimulation, or the timing between pulses, so it
requires less energy, provides superior symptom relief and the implant lasts
longer.

“Right now if you have one of these devices implanted for Parkinson’s, it
lasts about four years before you need to come back to the medical center to
have it replaced,” says Grill. “With the DBI technology, the device would last
closer to ten years.”

**Nimmi** **Ramanujam: Developing Tools to Improve Cancer Care**

Nimmi Ramanujam founded Zenalux Biomedical to make it easier for cancer
researchers to perform real-time, non-destructive analysis of biological
tissue and tumors. Based on novel technology Ramanujam developed while a
professor at the University of Wisconsin–Madison, and launched with support
from the Duke-Coulter Translational Partnership, Zenalux is one part of
Ramanujam’s larger goal to improve cancer therapy.

The company’s flagship tool is the Zenascope, a visible spectroscopy device
that rapidly measures biomarkers, like tissue oxygenation levels, without the
need to biopsy tissue. This technology allows doctors and scientists providing
patient care and conducting cancer research to characterize key cancer
hallmarks that differentiate aggressive from indolent disease. Using the
Zenascope, researchers can also examine the effectiveness of therapy by
monitoring changes in the tumor microenvironment.

Zenalux is currently working on head and neck cancer diagnostics and
treatment. The company successfully implemented pressure sensing and automated
self-calibration, in addition to customization of several probe designs for
the diagnosis of clinical head and neck tumors in collaboration with Dr.
Walter Lee at Duke University Medical Center. Further supporting the market
focus on head and neck cancer, Zenalux has worked with Roswell Park Cancer
Institute, University of Minnesota and the University of Rochester on a multi-
site study to guide photodynamic therapy (PDT) for head and neck cancer.

A newer version of the Zenascope measures additional hallmarks related to
tumor metabolism—specifically, glycolysis and mitochondrial metabolism such
that both the vascular biology and metabolism can all be measured with one
system.

Ramanujam is also introducing entrepreneurial work in global health to
students at Duke on the latest product her team has developed, the Pocket
Colposcope, a low cost cervical cancer-screening device. Through her Bass
Connections course (currently in year 2), students traveled to Lima, Peru to
engage stakeholders to identify strategies for adoption of the Pocket
Colposcope in the community setting to improve access to early screening.
Additionally, she has created a post baccalaureate program in which fellows
work with industry partners on product development and regulatory activities.
Hadleigh Health Technologies in San Rafael, California, will commercialize the
Pocket Colposcope for global cervical cancer screening.

“My core motivation is to improve cancer care, whether it is developing a
research tool to evaluate the effectiveness of cancer therapies in the
laboratory setting or to develop a clinical device for screening,” says
Ramanujam. “Thinking about opportunities for innovation in the entire cancer
care continuum is important and engaging students in that holistic process is
highly rewarding.”

**Ashutosh Chilkoti: The Serial Entrepreneur**

Since 2002, Ashutosh Chilkoti has founded five companies based on research
from his lab at Duke University, ranging from drug delivery to diagnostics—a
string of companies he never would have anticipated at the outset of his
academic career.

“I’m an accidental entrepreneur,” Chilkoti says. “I happened to meet a venture
capitalist named Clay Thorp at a large meeting at Duke, and we were sitting
together and we started talking about my work and that quickly led to the
launch of my first company, PhaseBio.”

Chilkoti founded PhaseBio Pharmaceuticals in 2002 after  
he discovered a new way to purify and capture proteins and deliver drugs using
elastin-like polypeptides, or ELPs. Today, the company develops ELP fusions to
improve the stability, bioavailability, activity and ease of administration of
proteins and peptides to achieve greater potency, reduce side effects, and
improve patient compliance. So far, PhaseBio has launched and completed
multiple clinical trials of ELPs for use in the treatment of diabetes and
heart disease.

In 2012, Chilkoti and Angus Hucknall, then a graduate student working on his
PhD with Chilkoti, founded Sentilus, based on a unique nonfouling polymer
brush developed in Chilkoti’s lab. The polymer coating acts like Teflon to
prevent non-target protein analytes from sticking to a surface, essentially
eliminating background noise in sandwich immunoassays. In a streamlined tech-
transfer deal, Sentilus was acquired by Immucor in 2014.

Shortly after, Immucor returned all fields of use of the technology outside of
human in vitro diagnostics. Chilkoti and Hucknall then co-founded BioStealth
to develop and commercialize the nonfouling coating technology for other areas
of interest, including research diagnostics and tools, veterinary diagnostics,
and biomaterials.

Now, Chilkoti has two additional startups moving into the new BRiDGE incubator
in the Chesterfield building in downtown Durham. GatewayBio, again founded
with Angus Hucknall, will focus on the next generation of polymer conjugates
of protein and peptide drugs that improve their efficacy. Isolere Bio will
develop technology to purify monoclonal antibodies for therapeutics.

Despite his serendipitous path to the entrepreneurial world, Chilkoti is
pleased with the results and the knowledge that he can impart to BME students.
“It’s been an interesting journey,” he says. “I’ve learned a lot about
entrepreneurship the hard way, and now I hope to pass on what I have learned
to our students.”

**Ken Gall: The Forces Behind a Spinal Implant Startup**

Ken Gall, the chair of Duke University’s Department of Mechanical Engineering
and Materials Science and a secondary faculty member in BME, founded Vertera
Spine in 2013 after his team discovered a new way to create a high strength
spinal implant from a porous polymer. When Gall moved to Duke from the Georgia
Institute of Technology in 2015, he continued to grow the company with support
from both schools, leading to a successful and highly collaborative startup.

Vertera Spine is based on a novel process to create porous PEEK  
(polyether ether ketone), a high-strength biopolymer that allows for better
bone attachment and repair following spinal surgery. Gall and his team
invented a way to form a highly porous, interconnected network on the
polymer’s surface without adding or subtracting material and without
negatively impacting the mechanical properties of the material.

During lumbar or cervical spinal fusion procedures, physicians insert a spinal
cage implant between vertebrae to provide stability and support while the
segments fuse. More than three-quarters of the spinal market uses PEEK
technology for implants, but porous spinal cages were only available in
metals, which do not show up as well in medical imaging.

“Our porous PEEK is the first FDA-approved load-bearing porous plastic implant
in the human body, and it’s the first porous implant that has the potential to
be tracked for bony attachment by CT scan,” says Gall. “Surgeons wanted to use
this plastic implant, so we happened to create the right product at the right
time.”

In the four years since its inception, the company has already progressed
through significant milestones. In 2015, the team published their first paper
on porous PEEK and the implant was approved by the Food and Drug
Administration. The following year, the technology was clinically introduced
when Vertera launched its COHERE implant, which has subsequently been used in
more than 2,000 successful spinal surgeries. But the most significant change
for the company occurred in September of 2017, when Vertera was acquired by
NuVasive, Inc., a leading medical device company with a focus on spinal
surgery.

Although Gall continued to rely on aid and technical expertise from the
Georgia Research Alliance and Bob Guldberg, the executive director of the
Parker H. Petit Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience at Georgia Tech,
he was also able to use entrepreneurial resources available at Duke after
moving to the university. Among them was the Duke Angel Network, an
organization within the Duke Innovation  
& Entrepreneurship Initiative (I&E) to help Duke startups grow by facilitating
the flow of capital and support from Duke-affiliated angel investors.

“The Duke I&E and the Duke Angel Network have provided us with capital
investment and key guidance during the last two years of Vertera’s growth into
the market,” says Gall. “We are extremely fortunate at Duke to have this
incredible resource for faculty, students and alumni entrepreneurs.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

