

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# IonQ Raises $20M to Advance Quantum Computing for Commercial Applications

July 28, 2017

Company aims to bring quantum computers to market using differentiated ion-
trapping approach

IonQ, an early-stage company developing quantum computing for commercial
applications, today announced completion of a $20 million series B round led
by New Enterprise Associates (NEA) and GV (formerly Google Ventures), with
participation from new strategic investors. Building on the pioneering work of
world-renowned experts at the University of Maryland and Duke University, IonQ
plans to bring general-purpose quantum computers to market by late 2018.

"Efforts to harness quantum mechanics to accelerate computation have gained
tremendous momentum in recent years, fueled by significant scientific progress
and growing interest—and investment—by some of the world's largest
governments, organizations and technology companies," said David Moehring,
PhD, CEO of IonQ. "While there is much yet to be discovered about specific
applications, there is a massive market clamoring for practical quantum
computers. Building on the groundbreaking work of Chris Monroe and Jungsang
Kim, IonQ's mission is to make reliable, scalable quantum computing a
reality."

IonQ's team comprises some of the world's foremost experts in the field of
quantum computing. Co-founders Chris Monroe of University of Maryland and
Jungsang Kim of Duke University are longtime collaborators, well-known for
their pioneering work in ion-trap experiments. Ion trapping is the hallmark of
IonQ's approach and a key differentiator from other efforts underway.
Moehring, who joined as CEO in 2016, was most recently at U.S. Intelligence
Advanced Research Projects Activity (IARPA), charged with oversight of
government-sponsored quantum computing initiatives.

"There is simply no team in the world with more expertise in trapped ion
technology, or with greater understanding of the broader quantum computing
landscape," said Ron Bernal, Venture Partner at NEA and a member of IonQ's
board of directors. "We are incredibly excited to partner with Dave, Chris and
Jungsang as they advance the field of quantum computing and develop a platform
for its commercial applications."

IonQ's trapped ions represent one of multiple approaches being explored to
power a quantum computer. Most large technology companies initiating quantum
computing research attempt to leverage their core semiconductor technology by
developing superconducting qubits. IonQ believes trapped ion technology, which
uses lasers to cool and isolate individual ions, will prevail because trapped
ions are identical, more stable, can be better controlled, and are therefore
likely to scale with better performance and greater predictability.

"Quantum computers are the next giant leap in the ability to process
information, and IonQ's promising approach builds on nearly two decades of
research by highly regarded physicists and engineers in the field," said Blake
Byers, General Partner at GV and a member of IonQ's board of directors.
"Quantum computers have the potential to solve data-intensive problems in
areas like healthcare, machine learning, and cryptography, and we're excited
to partner with IonQ as it accelerates development."

IonQ has raised approximately $22 million in total, with an earlier $2 million
invested by NEA in 2016. The company has demonstrated significant momentum
over the last year, adding several new board members and strategic advisors,
expanding its product development team, and attracting growing interest from
both the scientific and startupcommunities. In addition to Bernal and Byers,
new board members include Jeong Kim, former president of Bell Labs, and Andrew
Schoen, Principal at NEA. John Preskill, the Director of the Institute for
Quantum Information at Caltech, and Jagdeep Singh, founder and CEO of
QuantumScape, Lightera Networks, and Infinera, are serving as advisors to the
company.

**About IonQ**

IonQ is developing world-leading general-purpose quantum information
processors. Our unique trapped ion approach combines unmatched physical
performance, perfect qubit replication, optical networkability, and highly-
optimized algorithms to create a quantum computer that is as scalable as it is
powerful, and that will support a broad array of applications across a variety
of industries. IonQ is headquartered in College Park, MD and backed by New
Enterprise Associates (NEA) and GV (formerly Google Ventures). Co-founders
Christopher Monroe and Jungsang Kim are leading experts in the field of
trapped-ion quantum computing. Professors Monroe and Kim also maintain large
academic research groups at the University of Maryland and Duke University,
respectively, with a combined government funding of roughly $10M per year.
This pioneering work is the cornerstone of IonQ's uniquely scalable
technology.

**About Quantum Computing**

Quantum computing represents a radical departure from classical computing and
has the potential to overcome these limitations by embracing uniquely quantum
phenomena, such as superposition and entanglement, that emerge at atomic
scale. Quantum computers' ability to perform incredibly complex calculations
and data processing exponentially faster than classical computers opens up a
world of possible commercial and scientific applications. The potential is
staggering, and though we are still in the early days of quantum computing, we
anticipate that the technology will transform industries and facilitate
breakthroughs in areas as disparate as machine learning, molecular interaction
simulation, cryptography, financial analysis, logistics optimization, and big
data search.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

