

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Technology Powers First Pure-Play Quantum Computing Company to Wall
Street

March 9, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

With a market capitalization valued around $2 billion, IonQ will become the
first publicly traded company focused solely on quantum computing

Born from a 15-year-long collaboration between Duke University faculty members
in engineering and physics, IonQ will become the first publicly traded company
focused solely on quantum computing.

The company on March 8 announced it had entered into a merger agreement with
dMY Technology Group, Inc. III (NYSE: DMYI.U), a publicly traded special
purpose acquisition company (“dMY III”). Upon closing of the transaction, IonQ
shares will trade on the NYSE under the symbol “IONQ.” Pro forma implied
market capitalization of the combined company is approximately $2 billion.

The company, founded on a promising approach to quantum computing that uses
trapped ions to store and manipulate data, has a licensing agreement to
translate Duke innovations into IonQ technology. Its founders believe this
translation will only accelerate with the newly established Duke Quantum
Center—a 20,000-square-foot space in downtown Durham, North Carolina that will
offer programmable, reconfigurable quantum computing capability to engineers,
physicists, chemists, mathematicians or anyone who comes forward with a
complex optimization problem they’d like to try on a powerful quantum
computing system.

“I am excited about this critical milestone on the path to commercializing
quantum computing technology that started out at Duke,” said Jungsang Kim,
professor of electrical and computer engineering and physics at Duke
University and a co-founder of IonQ. “It is a great opportunity for Duke to
stay at the forefront of quantum computing technology.”

> “Jungsang and I have been working together for 15 years to build and use
> quantum computers based on engineering the best quantum components. IonQ’s
> announcement is a critical milestone in this path. Now that we are both at
> Duke, we expect things to go into high gear with the new Duke Quantum
> Center.”
>
> \- chris monroe

In the classical computers that people use every day, information is stored as
bits in transistors as either a “1” or a “0” and must be manipulated
sequentially. In quantum computers, information is stored in components called
“qubits” that, thanks to quantum mechanics, can be both a 1 and a 0 at the
same time while having a statistical preference for one or the other. With
multiple qubits, the number of possible values grows enormously, allowing a
quantum computer to process huge amounts of information in ways that are
impossible using a classical computer.

“Jungsang and I have been working together for 15 years to build and use
quantum computers based on engineering the best quantum components,” added
Chris Monroe, professor of electrical and computer engineering and physics and
the other co-founder of IonQ, who recently joined Duke from the University of
Maryland – College Park. “IonQ’s announcement is a critical milestone in this
path. Now that we are both at Duke, we expect things to go into high gear with
the new Duke Quantum Center.”

For straightforward tasks such as the trajectory of a cannonball, a quantum
computer is not likely to ever be able to compete with a classical computer.
But for fields such as cryptography, modeling chemical reactions and
predicting the future of climate change, a quantum computer isn’t just a
better option, it’s a necessity.

Industry giants including Microsoft, IBM and Google are also pursuing quantum
computing technologies, but through different means. Their technologies use
superconducting solid-state circuits that are controlled electronically. IonQ
uses trapped ions—atoms stripped of a single electron, giving it a positive
electric charge so that they can be suspended in a vacuum and manipulated with
lasers.

Their approach has thus far produced the first and only quantum computer
available via the cloud on both Amazon Braket and Microsoft Azure, leading
IonQ to define what it believes to be the best path forward to scaling quantum
computing power. By 2023, IonQ plans to develop modular quantum computers
small enough to be networked together, which could pave the way for systems
that can outperform conventional computers on a broad range of topics by 2025.
IonQ believes the twenty-first century will be defined by quantum computing
and that this technology will have an even greater impact than classical
computing had over the last 100 years.

“This transaction advances IonQ’s mission, to solve critical problems that
impact nearly every aspect of society,” said Peter Chapman, CEO & President of
IonQ. “We look forward to leveraging the power of quantum computing in the
fight against climate change and to solve vexing problems from materials
design to logistics that impact the transportation industry.”

Read more about quantum computing at Duke

## Related News

August 20, 2020

### Chris Monroe: Realizing Ion-Trap Quantum Computers to Solve Unsolvable
Problems

August 07, 2018

### Duke to Lead $15 Million Program to Create First Practical Quantum
Computer

February 11, 2016

### Building the World’s First Quantum Computer

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

