

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Izatt Named Chair of Biomedical Engineering at Duke

October 21, 2022 | Mark Schreiner

Joseph A. Izatt, a globally recognized expert in medical imaging, will lead
Duke BME through 2025 with a focus on research and educational excellence and
innovation

Joseph A. Izatt has been appointed chair of Duke’s Department of Biomedical
Engineering. An internationally recognized expert in medical imaging
innovation, respected student mentor and advisor, and faculty leader, Izatt
has served as interim chair since July and will now lead Duke BME until June
2025.

“After seeing the energy and dedication he brings to the position, even in a
temporary capacity, I quickly concluded that Joe would be an excellent choice
for chair,” said Jerome P. Lynch, Vinik Dean of Engineering at Duke. “His
first-hand experience in translation of innovation from lab to clinic makes
Joe a fantastic resource to lead Duke BME into its next phase of growth, which
will emphasize deepening its positive impact on society.”

> “Providing the best possible educational experience for our students and
> professional development opportunities for our staff, all in the context of
> an inclusive and equitable environment, will be a top departmental
> priority.“
>
> **Joseph A. Izatt** | Chair, Duke BME

Izatt, the Michael J. Fitzpatrick Distinguished Professor of Engineering, has
been a member of the Duke BME faculty since 2001.

He is a pioneering researcher and inventor who played a foundational role in
optical coherence tomography (OCT). The non-invasive medical imaging technique
uses optical interferometry to peer through layers of soft tissue, such as the
retina at the back of the eye.

OCT aids medical professionals and patients by providing richly detailed
images that guide diagnosis and treatment decisions.

The Izatt Biophontics Lab continues to seek further innovations with the
promise of improving human health—including new methods of non-invasive
medical diagnostics, _in vivo_ tomographic microscopy, and real-time, image-
guided robotic surgery. The lab’s expertise in OCT technology has also allowed
it to expand beyond the realm of biomedical imaging, such as investigating how
OCT could help autonomous robots and vehicles to see better.

Izatt is a partner in a decades-long interdisciplinary collaboration with
Cynthia Toth, a medical doctor and Duke professor of ophthalmology. Their work
to improve the accuracy of examination and surgery of the eye has led to
handheld OCT systems for infants and the first intraoperative OCT-guided
system for eye surgery.

“Duke BME was the first accredited undergraduate BME program in the US, and is
one of the world’s premier biomedical engineering programs—I am honored to
serve as its chair,” Izatt said. “I can think of nothing more vital or more
inspiring than the work Duke BME faculty, staff and students do, which is
designing solutions to some of the biggest challenges facing human society.”

> “Joe's first-hand experience in translation of innovation from lab to clinic
> makes him a fantastic resource to lead Duke BME into its next phase of
> growth, which will emphasize deepening its positive impact on society.”
>
> **Jerome P. Lynch, PhD, F.EMI** | Vinik Dean of Engineering at Duke

Izatt’s vision for the future of Duke BME, he says, centers on the
continuation of its trajectory of success to become widely recognized as both
the top destination for faculty and trainees at all levels seeking cutting-
edge biomedical engineering research and pedagogy, and as a vibrant, inclusive
and welcoming home for all members of the departmental community.

Work toward this vision will include continuing to recruit and retain the most
outstanding faculty widely recognized as thought leaders across all of the
major traditional and emerging areas of BME research, as well as building upon
and supporting Duke BME's remarkable cadre of teaching-focused faculty who are
recognized leaders in innovation within engineering education.

Izatt would also like to increase Duke BME’s connectivity with its thousands
of successful alumni, especially those in positions of leadership in BME
education and industry across the globe. As well, he said, Duke BME should
expand its outreach and involvement in the incredibly exciting expansion of
life-science industries in the Research Triangle Region of North Carolina,
especially ventures working in gene and cell therapy.

Holding 75 US patents, Izatt is a fellow of the National Academy of Inventors
(NAI) and the American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering
(AIMBE). He is also the recipient of honors for excellence in mentoring and
advising, including the 2008 Pratt School’s Capers and Marion McDonald Award
for Excellence in Mentoring and Advising and the 2017 Duke Graduate School
Dean’s Award for Excellence in Mentoring.

Beyond his classroom, laboratory, and faculty duties, Izatt has contributed
leadership to the school and university. He served as chair of a landmark
organizational visioning exercise, Pratt 2039, and served as chair of the
Search Committee for Duke's Vice President for Research and Innovation. For
service to his profession, Izatt received the Fantone Distinguished Service
Award from Optica (formerly the Optical Society of America) earlier this year.

“Our Duke BME community encompasses some 800 individuals on campus, including
Duke’s largest graduate program, one of its largest undergraduate majors, and
our incredibly talented and devoted research and administrative staff,” Izatt
said. “Continuing to provide the best possible educational experience for our
students and professional development opportunities for our staff, all in the
context of an inclusive and equitable environment, will be a top departmental
priority."

## Biomedical Engineering at Duke

  * Duke’s Department of Biomedical Engineering was created in 1971. A year
    later, it offered the first accredited undergraduate BME program in the
    United States
  * For 50 years, Duke BME has been a highly-ranked global leader— in 2022,
    Duke BME has the #3 undergraduate program and the #7 graduate program in
    biomedical engineering in the country, as ranked by _US News_
  * New research awards for its faculty are $48 million annually
  * The department is the home of the NIH-funded research and PhD training
    Center for Biomolecular and Tissue Engineering, and additional centers
    focused on global women's health technologies, genomic and computational
    biology, and advanced genomic technologies
  * Faculty innovation at Duke BME has spun off more than 20 new companies
  * Duke BME educational offerings include master’s degrees in biomedical
    engineering and medical technology design, and a dual MD-Master of
    Engineering for Duke medical students

More about Duke BME

## Related News

October 14, 2022 | Magnify

### An Engineer at Heart: Cynthia Toth’s 25 Years of Revolutionizing Eye
Surgery

March 29, 2022

### How Eye Imaging Technology Could Help Robots and Cars See Better

March 03, 2022 | Optica

### Duke BME's Joseph A. Izatt Receives Optica's 2022 Stephen D. Fantone
Distinguished Service Award

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

