

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Nan Jokerst Named Associate Dean for Strategic Initiatives

October 13, 2017

New position will initially focus on enhancing undergraduate experience,
support for women in STEM

Nan Jokerst, the J. A. Jones Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
at Duke University, has been named Associate Dean for Strategic Initiatives of
the Pratt School of Engineering.

The new position was created by Engineering Dean Ravi Bellamkonda to provide a
dedicated focus on short- and long-term initiatives that strengthen, renew and
build the school as a community of scholars. To begin her new appointment,
Professor Jokerst will lead conversations and planning initiatives to assist
and advise our department chairs and faculty search committees in
strengthening Duke Engineering’s recruitment, retention and advancement of
women tenure track faculty (as a particular emphasis), and enhancing the
undergraduate student experience by leveraging relevant Duke-wide programs.

“Pratt has a history of innovation and leadership around women in STEM and our
undergraduate experience that I am excited to build on,” said Jokerst. “Our
goals are to make Duke the destination for women in STEM at all levels of
engineering and to provide a distinctive experience for our undergraduates as
they take advantage of what greater Duke has to offer. I think we can
accomplish both goals by building a community and culture that encourage and
value the contributions of everyone.”

“We are on a journey to truly explore excellence in scholarship and impact
while partnering with colleagues across Duke to create the best possible
learning opportunities for our students,” said Bellamkonda. “I am very pleased
that a scholar and leader like Professor Jokerst will help lead our
conversations on, and fashion solutions to, our strategic priorities.”

A self-described “people person,” Jokerst says she is excited about
strengthening the Pratt community through personal engagement. She plans to
begin her new role by assessing what programs are available both at Duke and
beyond, and to understand the level of involvement of Pratt individuals in
those programs. She will also be listening to women in STEM at all levels in
Pratt—and to all Pratt undergraduates—in comfortable, friendly settings to
understand the school’s current status and aspirations.

“Pratt has an opportunity to lead Duke, the Triangle and the nation in these
kinds of innovative programs that support women in STEM and our
undergraduates,” said Jokerst. “Through the focus that Dean Bellamkonda and
the Duke upper administration have placed upon these topics, we can aspire to
serve as a model for Duke and for other institutions.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

