

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Kathy Nightingale Wins IEEE Hertz Ultrasonics Award

September 20, 2021 | Michaela Kane

Award recognizes significant contributions to the field of ultrasonic imaging

Kathy Nightingale, the Theo Pilkington Distinguished Professor of Biomedical
Engineering, received the IEEE Carl Hellmuth Hertz Ultrasonics Award from the
IEEE Ultrasonics, Ferroelectrics, and Frequency Control Society.

This award celebrates researchers who have made significant contributions to
the field of ultrasonics. Nightingale was recognized for her, “pioneering
contributions to the field of radiation force imaging and measurements.”
Candidates are nominated by their peers, and they must demonstrate an
excellent track record of publications, technical reports or patents. The
award was named for Carl Hellmuth Hertz to honor his pivotal role as both a
researcher and as an advisor to others working in the field of medical
diagnostic ultrasound imaging.

Nightingale has been a key figure in Duke BME’s ultrasound group, where she
helped pioneer the development of Acoustic Radiation Force Impulse (ARFI)
elasticity imaging. This technique uses ultrasound to assess the elasticity of
target tissues. Her lab also designed the algorithms and the pulse sequences
that form the basis of shear wave imaging techniques, which assess the
stiffness of tissues and have been integrated into numerous commercially
available ultrasound systems.

Shear wave imaging is primarily used to study liver stiffness, which is
helpful for tracking liver fibrosis. In certain countries, these imaging tools
have been so successful that they have been able replace invasive and
uncomfortable liver biopsy procedures––the current standard for fibrosis
staging. Nightingale is now pursuing projects that explore how the imaging
modality could be used to guide prostate cancer biopsies and focal therapies.
Her lab is also studying how the technology could be expanded to assess
skeletal muscle.

"The IEEE Ultrasonics Symposium is the premier technical conference of our
field, and I am truly honored to have been selected by this community to
receive the Ultrasonics Carl Hellmuth Hertz Award,” says Nightingale. “It
would not have been possible without the support and effort of the many people
comprising the research team in the Duke Ultrasound group and our wonderful
clinical collaborators at Duke Health."

Awardees receive a plaque, certificate and a $1000 honorarium. The award was
presented at this year’s virtual IEEE International Ultrasonics Symposium on
September 12, 2021.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

