

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# World Records, Drone Surveillance Systems and Falling Upwards

December 17, 2019

After spending nearly five years as Duke’s first Defense Advanced Research
Projects Agency (DARPA) program manager, Jeffrey Krolik, professor of
electrical and computer engineering, talks about the position, the projects he
managed and what he took away from the experience

## How did you become a DARPA project manager?

I’ve been engaged in DARPA projects throughout my career—most of them focused
on sonar and radar signal processing—and so people who knew me there asked me
about coming to DARPA to be a program manager. At this stage in my career, I
thought it would be a way to have a greater impact on solutions to some
important national defense challenges, so I expressed interest and I was
selected. The Dean and the ECE Chair at the time agreed that it would be very
worthwhile public service, so I was granted a government service leave from
Duke to take the position.

I moved to Washington DC because my job involved constant interaction with
industrial, government and military officials, often in secure facilities.

## What exactly does it mean to be a DARPA program manager?

DARPA program managers are selected because they often bring new ideas to
solve difficult defense-related problems. Almost everyone at DARPA is there
for a limited term, typically three to five years, so in order to see results
while you’re there, you feel pushed to have projects progress as fast as
possible. Program managers develop ideas for projects with the help of experts
all over the country and present them to the Director for approval.

One of the best things about being at DARPA is that virtually everyone you
reach out to wants to help you develop ideas for projects. Once the project is
approved, a solicitation is published and proposals from teams are evaluated
based on formal selection criteria, often with an emphasis on the novelty of
their solution. In the Strategic Technology Office of DARPA, where I was
employed, the focus is on the development of large systems beyond fundamental
research.

Because everyone at DARPA is there for a limited time, quite often the
execution of a project extends beyond the tenure of the original program
manager, so the management transitions to someone new. During my time at
DARPA, I started four programs and took over two programs started by others.
At one point, I was managing four projects at once, which was incredibly
intense, especially since most involved field experiments executed by
different teams.

## What was the most interesting project you worked on?

One of the most interesting projects I initiated involved putting up a series
of nanosatellites to improve the performance of over-the-horizon radar.
Nanosatellites typically weigh less than 25 pounds and are measured in size by
the number of four-inch “cubes” they occupy. Our so-called “CubeSats” were the
first of their kind for this application and posed many unexpected challenges
with respect to spacecraft attitude control. I attended the launch of our
first spacecraft on a Minotaur rocket from Cape Canaveral which was very
exciting. Watching a rocket launch is a lot more fun knowing that your payload
is going into orbit!

I also started a drone surveillance program whose aim is to detect and track
small drones in urban environments. The program involves a fusion of multiple
sensors. The project is aimed at drone surveillance for troops operating
outside the US, but there has also been a lot of interest for using these
systems for drone surveillance in the US.

## What would you say was the most successful program you pursued?

Probably the most successful program I managed was one that I finished but
didn’t start. Its goal was to achieve wireless data transfer from an aircraft
to a ground station at fiber-optic data rates, which are speeds of at least
10s of gigabits per second. Compared to the fastest commercial mobile wireless
data rates of less than 100 megabits per second, that’s insanely fast. We
easily broke the previous world record by demonstrating data transfers at more
than 40 gigabits per second at distances greater than 30 km using large
bandwidths at millimeter-wave frequencies, many bits per symbol, and multiple-
input-multiple-output (MIMO) antennas and waveforms.

## How about the most headache-inducing program?

The most unusual program I managed had a goal to provide the US Navy with the
ability to pre-position assets underwater. For the assets to survive until
needed, the idea was to store them at the bottom of the ocean in pressure
vessels. When needed, a command would be sent to release the pressure vessel,
which would then float to the surface and deploy its payload.

Besides there being all kinds of issues with how to ensure the vessels could
withstand the intense pressure at depths of over 4,000 meters and the
challenges of communicating with it, we attracted some crazy media coverage.
The program also appeared to inspire an NCIS television series episode about
“pre-positioned assets or PPA’s.” The TV script was a murder mystery involving
deeply submerged Navy pressure vessels supposedly used to store illegal drugs!
The fictional program was much more sensational than the real program.

## What were your biggest takeaways from your time at DARPA?

I learned that there are a lot of very dedicated and talented people in the
defense department and the military. Overall, I was very impressed by the
professionalism of the people who choose to serve their country in this way.

I also learned to appreciate the importance of teams and what it takes to be
both a good team leader and team member. As a program manager, I was
responsible for program leadership and was also held accountable as a
government team member. Developing complex new systems is hard. I found that
just getting a lot of smart people together isn’t enough. They all must be
able to work effectively together, which requires leadership and
accountability.

## What are your research plans now that you’re back at Duke, and did your
time at DARPA influence them at all?

I’m hoping to branch out beyond traditional military applications of radar and
sonar. In the last few years, new commercial millimeter-wave radar and
acoustic sensor arrays have opened up a whole host of new sensing
possibilities for signal processing research. Right now, we’re looking at
everything from radar signal processing for human health assessment to sensor
array processing for coherently combining a set of widely distributed
microphones, e.g. in smart speakers, to improve speech processing in noisy
environments. In addition, I look forward to initiating new collaborations and
starting new projects with some of the great faculty we have at Pratt.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

