

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Li Named Chair of Electrical & Computer Engineering at Duke

October 17, 2022 | Mark Schreiner

Hai “Helen” Li, a world-renowned scholar working on next-generation computers,
will lead Duke ECE through 2025 focused on research excellence and education
innovation

Hai “Helen” Li has been appointed chair of Duke’s Department of Electrical &
Computer Engineering. A world-renowned scholar working across hardware and
software applications in the development of next-generation computing
machinery, Li has served as interim chair since spring and will now lead the
department until June 2025.

“Even before her appointment as acting chair, Helen was a highly visible
leader of Duke's brain-inspired computing research and a tireless advocate for
Duke ECE,” said Jerome Lynch, Vinik Dean of Engineering at Duke. “Helen’s
leadership and vision for the future of the electrical and computer
engineering disciplines will be instrumental to the department over the coming
years. I look forward to our continued partnership as the department and our
school continues to explore the frontier spaces of advanced computing.”

> "Duke ECE will work to enrich and innovate undergraduate and graduate
> curricula to prepare next-generation workforce and future leaders for
> engineering and entrepreneurship, strengthen its commitment to diversity in
> faculty and student recruitment, and expand an inclusive and engaging
> community."
>
> **Hai "Helen" Li** | Chair, Duke ECE

Li, the Clare Boothe Luce Professor of Electrical & Computer Engineering,
pursues broad research interests in hardware and software co-design to bridge
the gap between the hardware and deep learning communities. Rather than
building general processors not optimized for any specific task, co-design
puts hardware engineers and software designers together to create new
architectures tailored to fulfill specific needs. Depending on the task at
hand, for example, this could make the operation simpler and more power-
efficient or give it more power and higher performance.

She is globally renowned for her pioneering research in neuromorphic computing
systems—next-generation computer hardware designs based on the human brain. Li
is a global leader in the field, possessing a deep knowledge of machine
learning techniques and applications. She and her students have won numerous
awards and recognitions, including nine best-paper awards.

Li brings extensive experience in both academics and industry to her new role,
with stints at New York University and the University of Pittsburgh, as well
as industry leaders Qualcomm, Intel, and Seagate. She is a 2022 fellow of
Drexel University’s Executive Leadership in Academic Technology, Engineering
and Science (ELATES), the national academic STEM leadership development
program for women.

“It’s an honor to be appointed to lead the remarkable and talented faculty,
staff, and student community at Duke ECE and to facilitate and deepen our
relationships with collaborators across Duke,” Li said. “It will take teams to
solve the biggest challenges facing our society. I am proud that Duke ECE has
a deep interdisciplinary culture and serves as an important meeting place for
the applied sciences at Duke.“

> “Helen’s leadership and vision for the future of the electrical and computer
> engineering disciplines will be instrumental to the department over the
> coming years."
>
> **Jerome P. Lynch, PhD, F.EMI** | Vinik Dean of Engineering at Duke

With 58 tenure-track faculty and more than 570 PhD and master’s students and
230 undergraduate students, Duke ECE is home to 10 major externally funded
research centers in AI/machine learning, quantum computing, acoustic and
optical metamaterials, and environmental protection.

Among Li’s chief priorities as chair will be to showcase and expand the
department’s strengths in crosscutting research areas as well as to advance
Duke ECE to the next level of excellence.

“We’re fortunate to have outstanding students and faculty, and will continue
to focus on recruiting the best and brightest talent,” said Li. "The
department will work to enrich and innovate undergraduate and graduate
curricula to prepare next-generation workforce and future leaders for
engineering and entrepreneurship, strengthen its commitment to diversity in
faculty and student recruitment, and expand an inclusive and engaging
community."

At Duke, Li is the co-founder of the first National Science Foundation (NSF)
IUCRC center dedicated to computing hardware of AI with two dozen affiliated
industrial collaborators. Li is also the co-leader of the NSF  AI Institute
for Edge Computing Leveraging Next-Generation Networks (ATHENA), with a $20
million total investment.

She is a fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
(IEEE) and a fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM)—a high
honor bestowed on the foremost leaders of the field.

## Electrical & Computer Engineering at Duke

  * Duke ECE ‘s faculty research groups are designing creative solutions to
    pressing challenges in human health, physical and digital security, and
    automation
  * Signature research themes include AI and machine learning, metamaterials,
    quantum computing, nanoelectronics, sensing and imaging technologies, and
    trustworthy computing
  * New research awards are $40 million annually
  * Faculty innovation has spun out more than 20 startups
  * Educational offerings include master's degree concentrations in software
    development, hardware design, data analytics, machine learning and quantum
    computing

More about Duke ECE

## Related News

June 12, 2022 | HiPEAC Blog

### Duke ECE's Hai "Helen" Li: Machine Learning Should Consider Vertical
Integration

November 19, 2021

### Duke Engineering Launches ‘Athena’ Center for AI and Edge Computing

December 21, 2016

### Hai “Helen” Li: Modeling the Future of Computing After the Human Brain

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

