

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Light-Based Deep Brain Stimulation Relieves Symptoms of Parkinson’s Disease

April 27, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

Fast-acting, light-reactive genetic tools could reveal how deep brain
stimulation works

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have used deep brain stimulation based
on light to treat motor dysfunction in an animal model of Parkinson’s disease.
Succeeding where earlier attempts have failed, the method promises to provide
new insights into why deep brain stimulation works and ways in which it can be
improved on a patient-by-patient basis.

The results appear online on April 20 in The Journal of Neuroscience.

“If you think of the area of the brain being treated in deep brain stimulation
as a plate of spaghetti, with the meatballs representing nerve cell bodies and
the spaghetti representing nerve cell axons, there’s a longstanding debate
about whether the treatment is affecting the spaghetti, the meatballs or some
combination of the two,” said Warren Grill, the Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School
Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering at Duke.

“But it’s an impossible question to answer using traditional methods because
electrical deep brain stimulation affects them both as well as the peppers,
onions and everything else in the dish. Our new light-based method, however,
is capable of targeting just a single ingredient, so we can now begin teasing
out the individual effects of activating different neural elements.”

In Grill’s metaphor, the meatballs are the neurons that make up the
subthalamic nucleus, a small component of the basal ganglia control system
that is believed to perform action selection. While its exact function remains
unknown, research suggests that it holds muscular responses in check. The
spaghetti in the bowl represents long nerve fibers called the hyperdirect
pathway that extend into the region from neurons in the cerebral cortex, the
thin outer layer of neurons responsible for most of the brain’s information
processing. And the peppers, onions and other ingredients are the various
types of support cells found throughout the brain.

As Grill suggests, teasing out the role all of these various types of cells
plays in mediating the effects of deep brain stimulation is nearly impossible
using traditional methods. Individual types of cells cannot be singled out by
electrical stimulation, and the electric pulses blind researchers’ sensors for
a crucial millisecond directly after firing.

In 2006, a team of researchers attempted to use optogenetics to skirt these
issues. Optogenetics is a method of genetically modifying specific cells to
express light-sensitive ion channels, allowing researchers to control their
activity with flashes of light. The researchers embedded these light-sensitive
ion channels into the subthalamic nucleus “meatballs” in rats and flashed
pulses of light at the same rate used in deep brain stimulation. The
treatment, however, failed to alleviate any of the rats’ physical symptoms,
leading the researchers to conclude that stimulating the subthalamic nucleus
on its own is an inadequate treatment approach.

But the study never sat quite right in Grill’s mind.

“Neurons being stimulated with optogenetics don’t generally respond very
quickly, and it seemed to me that the researchers were flashing their lights
faster than the neurons could keep up with,” said Grill. “The data bore this
out, as the neurons appeared to be responding randomly rather than in sync
with the flashes. And previous research that we conducted showed that random
patterns of deep brain stimulation are not effective at relieving symptoms.”

It took more than a decade for Grill to be able to test his theory, but two
recent developments allowed him to follow his hunch. Researchers developed a
faster form of optogenetics called Chronos that could keep up with the speeds
traditionally used in deep brain stimulation. And Chunxiu Yu, a research
scientist with expertise in optogenetics, joined Grill’s laboratory. Also
contributing to the work in Grill’s laboratory were Isaac Cassar, a biomedical
engineering doctoral student, and Jaydeep Sambangi, a biomedical engineering
undergraduate.

In the new paper, Yu embedded the Chronos optogenetics machinery into the
subthalamic nucleus neurons of rats that have been given Parkinson’s disease-
like conditions in one-half of their brains. This model helps researchers
determine when a treatment is successful because the resulting physical
movement symptoms only occur on one side of the rat’s body. They then
delivered deep brain stimulation using light flashes at the standard 130
flashes per second.

As Grill first suspected nearly 15 years ago, the technique worked, and the
rats’ physical symptoms were substantially alleviated.

According to Grill, their result has several important implications. One is
that researchers need to consider the kinetic properties of how rapidly
optogenetic approaches can act when designing their experiments and pay close
attention to performance in their studies. Another insight was the way that
other neurons outside of the subthalamic nucleus responded to the treatment.
While there was not a large difference in their average activity levels, there
was a dramatic shift in the pattern in which those neurons fired, which offers
clues as to how deep brain stimulation works.

But perhaps the most important result is simply that the technique worked at
all. Besides offering a much clearer look at neural activity by removing
electrical artifacts, the ability to deliver deep brain stimulation to precise
subsets of neurons should allow researchers to begin probing exactly which
parts of the brain need to be stimulated and how therapies might be tailored
to treat different motor control symptoms on a case-by-case basis.

As their next experiment in this line of research, Grill and his colleagues
plan to recreate this same study but in the hyperdirect pathway—the spaghetti
instead of the meatballs —to see what its individual contribution to relieving
symptoms might be.

“This is very important because somewhere in that big bowl of spaghetti are
some elements that are responsible for treating symptoms and some elements
that generate side effects,” said Grill. “And if we can figure out which is
which, we can design electrode stimulation geometries and patterns to target
the elements that suppress symptoms while leaving the others alone.”

This research was supported by the National Institute of Neurological
Disorders and Stroke (R01 NS091236, R37 NS040894).

CITATION: “Frequency-Specific Optogenetic Deep Brain Stimulation of
Subthalamic Nucleus Improves Parkinsonian Motor Behaviors,” Chunxiu Yu, Isaac
R. Cassar, Jaydeep Sambangi, and Warren M. Grill. Journal of Neuroscience,
April 20, 2020. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3071-19.2020

###

## Related News

January 04, 2017

### Evolving Deep Brain Stimulation Patterns

June 23, 2015

### Understanding Deep Brain Stimulation

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

