

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Machine Learning Microscope Adapts Lighting to Improve Diagnoses

November 20, 2019 | By Ken Kingery

Prototype microscope teaches itself the best illumination settings for
diagnosing malaria

Engineers at Duke University have developed a microscope that adapts its
lighting angles, colors and patterns while teaching itself the optimal
settings needed to complete a given diagnostic task.

In the initial proof-of-concept study, the microscope simultaneously developed
a lighting pattern and classification system that allowed it to quickly
identify red blood cells infected by the malaria parasite more accurately than
trained physicians and other machine learning approaches.

The results appear online on November 19 in the journal Biomedical Optics
Express.

“A standard microscope illuminates a sample with the same amount of light
coming from all directions, and that lighting has been optimized for human
eyes over hundreds of years,” said Roarke Horstmeyer, assistant professor of
biomedical engineering at Duke.

“But computers can see things humans can’t,” Hortmeyer said. “So not only have
we redesigned the hardware to provide a diverse range of lighting options,
we’ve allowed the microscope to optimize the illumination for itself.”

Rather than diffusing white light from below to evenly illuminate the slide,
the engineers developed a bowl-shaped light source with LEDs embedded
throughout its surface. This allows samples to be illuminated from different
angles up to nearly 90 degrees with different colors, which essentially casts
shadows and highlights different features of the sample depending on the
pattern of LEDs used.

The researchers then fed the microscope hundreds of samples of malaria-
infected red blood cells prepared as thin smears, in which the cell bodies
remain whole and are ideally spread out in a single layer on a microscope
slide. Using a type of machine learning algorithm called a convolutional
neural network, the microscope learned which features of the sample were most
important for diagnosing malaria and how best to highlight those features.

The algorithm eventually landed on a ring-shaped LED pattern of different
colors coming from relatively high angles. While the resulting images are
noisier than a regular microscope image, they highlight the malaria parasite
in a bright spot and are correctly classified about 90 percent of the time.
Trained physicians and other machine learning algorithms typically perform
with about 75 percent accuracy.

“The patterns it’s picking out are ring-like with different colors that are
non-uniform and are not necessarily obvious,” said Horstmeyer. “Even though
the images are dimmer and noisier than what a clinician would create, the
algorithm is saying it’ll live with the noise, it just really wants to get the
parasite highlighted to help it make a diagnosis.”

Horstmeyer then sent the LED pattern and sorting algorithm to another
collaborator’s lab across the world to see if the results were translatable to
different microscope setups. The other laboratory showed similar successes.

“Physicians have to look through a thousand cells to find a single malaria
parasite,” said Horstmeyer. “And because they have to zoom in so closely, they
can only look at maybe a dozen at a time, and so reading a slide takes about
10 minutes. If they only had to look at a handful of cells that our microscope
has already picked out in a matter of seconds, it would greatly speed up the
process.”

The researchers also showed that the microscope works well with thick blood
smear preparations, in which the red blood cells form a highly non-uniform
background and may be broken apart. For this preparation, the machine learning
algorithm was successful 99 percent of the time.

According to Horstmeyer, the improved accuracy is expected because the tested
thick smears were more heavily stained than the thin smears and exhibited
higher contrast. But they also take longer to prepare, and part of the
motivation behind the project is to cut down on diagnosis times in low-
resource settings where trained physicians are sparse and bottlenecks are the
norm.

With this initial success in hand, Horstmeyer is continuing to develop both
the microscope and machine learning algorithm.

A group of Duke engineering graduate students has formed a startup company
SafineAI to miniaturize the reconfigurable LED microscope concept, which has
already earned a $120,000 prize at a local pitch competition.

Meanwhile, Horstmeyer is working with a different machine learning algorithm
to create a version of the microscope that can adjust its LED pattern to any
specific slide it’s trying to read.

“We’re basically trying to impart some brains into the image acquisition
process,” said Horstmeyer. “We want the microscope to use all of its degrees
of freedom. So instead of just dumbly taking images, it can play around with
the focus and illumination to try to get a better idea of what’s on the slide,
just like a human would.”

“Learned Sensing: Jointly Optimized Microscope Hardware for Accurate Image
Classification,” Alex Muthumbi, Amey Chaware, Kanghyun Kim, Kevin C. Zhou,
Pavan Chandra Konda, Richard Chen, Benjamin Judkewitz, Andreas Erdmann,
Barbara Kappes, and Roarke Horstmeyer. Biomedical Optics Express, Vol. 10, No.
11, 1 November 2019. DOI: 10.1364/BOE.10.006351

# # #

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

