

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# The Atomic Dynamics of Rare Everlasting Electric Fields

January 10, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

Confirming a theoretical model required blasting a sample at 3,000 degrees
with neutrons

By ricocheting neutrons off the atoms of yttrium manganite (YMnO3) heated to
3,000 degrees Fahrenheit, researchers have discovered the atomic mechanisms
that give the unusual material its rare electromagnetic properties. The
discovery could help scientists develop new materials with similar properties
for novel computing devices and micro-actuators.

The experiment was conducted as a collaboration between Duke University and
Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL) and appeared online in Nature
Communications on January 2, 2018.

Ferromagnetism is the scientific term for the phenomenon responsible for
permanent magnets like iron. Such materials exist because their molecular
structure consists of tiny magnetic patches that all point in the same
direction. Each patch, or domain, is said to have a magnetic dipole moment,
with a north and a south pole, which, added together, produce the magnetic
fields so often seen at work on refrigerator doors.

Ferroelectricity is a similar property, but more rare and difficult to
conceptualize. In much the same way as a permanent magnet, a ferroelectric
material consists of domains with electric dipole moments aligned with one
another. This produces a naturally occurring permanent electric field, like a
collection of microscopic balloons with a long-lasting charge of static
electricity.

Yttrium manganite is one of the very few materials that combine both the
ferroelectric property and also magnetic ordering at extremely cold
temperatures. This rare combination presents the interesting possibility of
controlling the material’s magnetic properties with electricity and vice
versa. Harnessing this ability could let scientists create more efficient
computers based on four digit-states rather than just today’s 1s and 0s by
flipping both electrical and magnetic states, as well as new types of sensors
and energy converters.

“These so-called multi-ferroic materials are very rare,” said Olivier Delaire,
associate professor of mechanical engineering and materials science and of
physics at Duke. “But if we can understand the mechanisms of what is happening
at the atomic level, we have a better chance of designing and discovering more
materials enabling new technologies.”

Because the ferroelectric behavior of yttrium manganite only turns off above
3000 degrees Fahrenheit, researchers have never been able to probe the atomic
vibration waves that yield the desired arrangement of microscopic electric
dipoles. While the molecular underpinnings of yttrium manganite’s
ferroelectric properties have been theorized, there have never been direct
measurements to prove them.

> “This material was never previously understood on such a fine atomistic
> level. Our experimental results will allow researchers to refine theories
> and create better models of these materials so that we can design even
> better ones in the future.”

To determine how the property arises, researchers must probe the wave-like
vibrations of the stacking of atoms in the material, which oscillate at
frequencies over a thousand billion times per second. They also must do this
both above and below the 3000 degree ferroelectric switching temperature,
which is a tall task, to say the least. But that’s precisely what the
researchers did.

“It was challenging to measure the atomic oscillations above 3000 Fahrenheit,”
said Dipanshu Bansal, a postdoctoral scholar in the Delaire research group at
Duke and the lead author on the study. “It required high-intensity neutron
beams, special high-temperature materials and a controlled atmosphere furnace
heating the sample in the air to avoid decomposing the sample, which would
otherwise happen in a more standard vacuum furnace.”

The experiments involved shooting the extremely hot sample of yttrium
manganite with neutrons. By detecting where the neutrons ended up after
colliding with the sample’s atoms, the researchers could determine where the
atoms were and how they were collectively oscillating. There are very few
places in the world that have such capabilities, and the Oak Ridge National
Laboratory, a few hours’ drive from Duke, happens to host both the High-Flux
Isotope Reactor and the Spallation Neutron Source, the most powerful source of
neutron beams in the world.

The researchers probed the material using neutrons at various energies and
wavelengths, giving an overall picture of its atomic behaviors. They found
that above the transition temperature, a certain group of atoms were free to
move around and vibrated together in a particular way. But as the material
cooled and shifted phases, those atoms froze into the permanent crystalline
arrangement that is responsible for the ferroelectric properties.

And to confirm the neutron results, the researchers also used the ultra-bright
X-ray beams at the Advanced Photon Source at Argonne National Laboratory and
performed large-scale quantum simulations of atomic behavior with the
supercomputers of the National Energy Research Scientific Computing Center at
Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory.

“This material was never previously understood on such a fine atomistic
level,” said Bansal and Delaire. “We’ve had theories about the importance of
atomic oscillations, but this is the first time we’ve directly confirmed them.
Our experimental results will allow researchers to refine theories and create
better models of these materials so that we can design even better ones in the
future.”

This research was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy (DE-SC0016166),
the National Science Foundation (DMR-1350002), Oak Ridge National Laboratory,
Argonne National Laboratory, the National Energy Research Scientific Computing
Center and UT-Battelle, LLC.

“Momentum-Resolved Observations of the Phonon Instability Driving Geometric
Improper Ferroelectricity in Yttrium Manganite.” Dipanshu Bansal, Jennifer L.
Niedziela, Ryan Sinclair, V. Ovidiu Garlea, Douglas L. Abernathy, Songxue Chi,
Yang Ren, Haidong Zhou and Olivier Delaire. Nature Communications 9, 15
(2018). DOI: 10.1038/s41467-017-02309-2

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

