

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Making the Next Wave of Imaging Tools for Cancer Diagnosis

May 9, 2019

Motivated by her mother’s death from breast cancer, Muyinatu Bell (Duke BME
PhD’12) is now advancing medical imaging as a faculty member at Johns Hopkins

With a joint appointment in the departments of biomedical engineering and
electrical and computer engineering, Muyinatu A. Lediju Bell uses her position
as an assistant professor at Johns Hopkins University to push the boundaries
of medical imaging. Bell’s research is centered on ultrasound and
photoacoustic imaging, building off the work she completed as a PhD student at
Duke University’s Department of Biomedical Engineering.

As a graduate student in Gregg Trahey’s lab, she studied acoustic clutter––a
type of noise artifact in ultrasound images that can make it difficult to
distinguish different features in the images. One of Bell’s primary projects
involved developing a method to reduce acoustic clutter using spatial
coherence information, which measures the similarity of ultrasound echoes from
tissue when recorded from slightly different locations. This new process
allowed researchers to better distinguish borders between blood and tissue,
especially in organs like the heart, which was the topic of Bell’s PhD
dissertation.

“This was the first time that someone had directly displayed the spatial
coherence of ultrasound waves to reduce noise, and it was especially promising
because it led to several patents, the first of which I’m credited on as a co-
inventor,” says Bell. “At Johns Hopkins, I’m building on that previous work to
aid in the diagnosis of breast cancer, as my lab is the first to apply this
new technique to breast images.”

If a lump is discovered during a breast exam, physicians need to conduct more
tests to make an accurate diagnosis. Typically, this involves using ultrasound
to image the lump and determine if it’s benign or cancerous. Benign cysts are
filled with fluid, so they should appear very dark in comparison to
surrounding tissue. But breast tissue is highly variable, so artifacts can
appear where there should be no signal at all. This signal reduces the
radiologist’s confidence about making a conclusive diagnosis, so they’ll often
need to perform a biopsy to ensure that the tissue isn’t cancerous.

“With my method, we’d be able to improve the detection of cysts in the breast
by cutting out that noise,” says Bell. “Our goal is to ultimately decrease the
number of false positives, which would reduce the need for invasive biopsies
and some of the patient anxiety that accompanies inconclusive diagnoses with
ultrasound alone.”

For Bell, the push to improve the diagnostic tools for breast cancer was a
personal one.

“I lost my mother to breast cancer when I was an undergraduate student, which
fueled my long-standing interest in and motivation to study cancer. I also
knew that I wanted to pursue research that used my mechanical engineering
background to impact ultrasound imaging technology,” says Bell. “When I
started to consider graduate school, I went to Google and typed in keywords
like imaging, cancer, ultrasound and mechanics, and Gregg Trahey’s lab was the
top hit. He was developing new ultrasound technology to image the mechanical
properties of tissue. I instantly knew that his lab was the right choice for
me.”

At Duke, Bell was a fellow in the NIH-funded Duke Medical Imaging Training
Program, which gave her wide-ranging exposure and experience across the field.
With this training, she is well equipped to teach the gateway Medical Imaging
Systems course at Johns Hopkins University, where she has introduced new
hands-on imaging modules that her students consistently rate as one of the
best aspects of her course.

“I’m grateful that I was able to connect with a program and research lab at
Duke that aligned well with my passions,” says Bell. “Gregg’s lab is widely
recognized and respected, and I’m proud to have him as part of my academic
family tree. “During my time at Duke I learned a lot about the experimental
design process, how to ask the right questions and how to go after those
questions,” she adds. “It was a great place to learn the critical skills I
need to be a successful researcher and effective educator today.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

