

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Mapping Complex Variability onto Intricate Virtual Models

December 7, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

String of papers shows how advanced modeling algorithms can enable and improve
statistical models for individualized heart care, biomedical devices,
transcranial magnetic stimulation and more

Anybody who has ever seen a picture of a brain knows that it’s not a simple
smooth oval; it’s more like a tangle of fat worms. But when researchers seek
to predict and understand its physical and electrical behavior, they have to
describe fields on that complicated shape and often use simplified geometrical
models, such as an ellipsoidal shape, for that purpose. It’s not that they’ve
never seen a brain before, it’s that the twists, turns and valleys of a
brain’s surface substantially complicate the modeling of parameters on it.

For simulations involving brain geometries, errors can be generated by a
process called segmentation, which essentially assigns pixels to particular
matter, such as cerebrospinal fluid and gray or white matter. For pixels
located at the physical interface between these regions, the decision to
assign a particular label can generate errors for small contrasts, and these
uncertainties can propagate in subsequent analyses.

Johann Guilleminot, assistant professor of civil and environmental engineering
at Duke University, has developed a technique to overcome these obstacles. And
he’s using it to help researchers model a wide range of objects, such as
stresses within an individual’s arteries, the effects of transcranial magnetic
stimulation on a brain, and the forces at work within surgically implanted
3D-printed orthopedic devices.

“In most works related to uncertainty quantification, brains are often
approximated by ellipsoids and arteries are often approximated by hollowed
cylinders, because the geometry and coordinate systems are easier to handle in
terms of stochastic modeling,” Guilleminot said. “But as soon as you try to
account for real-world, patient-specific objects, the usual techniques begin
to fail. We’re providing people who need to model these complex shapes and
their complex properties and behaviors the ability to do so efficiently on the
fly.”

Guilleminot’s method has two parts. The first generates a complex virtual
model of most any shape desired and technically operates in the same way from
object to object. The second takes a set of application-specific
characteristics—the properties at work within a titanium leg implant or the
patient-specific tissue stiffness within an artery—and maps them onto the 3D
model.

The result is not only a complex, realistic virtual model of the object in
question, but also a range of behaviors that it might exhibit. By
incorporating variability into the computations, the models provide a glimpse
into a spectrum of responses an object might have to certain loads, stresses
and strains—hence enabling better classification, design and prognosis.

“If you run the same experiment on 10 real titanium implants, all processed
under seemingly similar conditions, you won’t get the same results every
time,” Guilleminot said. “You get variability, up to 20%, and sometimes it’s a
huge difference because it can impact the durability and performance of an
implant over the first few years.”

Guilleminot is helping get a more accurate and detailed view of the brain for
researchers working with Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS), which
applies electromagnetic fields from outside of the head to induce neural
activity. In this image, blue represents geometrical perturbation inwards,
while red represents geometrical perturbation outwards. By creating these
virtual perturbations in brain models and solving them, Guilleminot can
approximate and account for errors created during MRI scans.

Orthopedic surgical implants are often used to help heal and strengthen broken
bones. Engineers are developing more complex shapes that help the bone grow
into the implant and make the junction stronger, but the advanced geometry
makes it more difficult to model stresses and strains on the device. In this
image, the red and blue highlights show spatial fluctuations created by
accounting for both geometrical features and the manufacturing process. This
not only helps on the mechanical and clinical sides, but also provides a
feedback loop on material processing.

This picture shows the average field of Von Mises stresses—a quantity that is
typically used to asses failure of a structure—within a specific human artery.
The field results from a coupling between the geometry, the material model and
the way the statistical fluctuations are prescribed in the artery wall. The
research could eventually underpin patient-specific simulations to help
physicians develop non-invasive techniques for early diagnosis and identify
potential pitfalls before performing medical procedures.

This is joint work with PhD students P. Chen, S. Chu, and H. Zhang. TMS are
conducted as part of a collaboration with L. Gomez at Purdue University.

The support of the National Science Foundation under awards CMMI-1726403,
CMMI-1942928, and DGE-2022040, is gratefully acknowledged.

## Related News

March 31, 2020

### Guilleminot Receives NSF CAREER Award to Develop Modeling Frameworks and
Tools

October 11, 2016

### Johann Guilleminot: Accounting for Variabilities That Matter

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

