

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Math + Art + Engineering = Beauty

September 30, 2013 | by Minnie Glymph

Duke community help construct a new multi-part sculpture permanently installed
in the Fitzpatrick Center at Duke University

You might not expect a pair of mathematicians to be at the root of Duke’s
newest art installation. But why not? The new sculpture—a series of four
origami-esque hanging orbs to be installed in the atrium of the Fitzpatrick
Center on October 20—is a celebration of the beauty of geometry.

“In my mind, math and art go together,” says George Hart, the New York-based
mathematical sculptor and computer science professor who created the work.
“People often don’t realize that math is very creative—they think of fixed
rules for addition and multiplication, but that’s just arithmetic. Once you
get to be a professional mathematician, you can be very creative. You make new
proofs and theorems, and they’re judged by how beautiful and elegant they are.
Both math and art are about enjoying seeing things and understanding what you
are looking at. There are deep fundamental connections there.”

## Geometry Ascending a Staircase

####

Four Orbs: 4, 5, 6 and 7 feet in diameter, progressing in the openness of
weave and lightness of color so that the sculpture “blossoms” as it rises

  * 400 pounds of laser-cut aluminum
  * 1,400 screws
  * 1440 nuts
  * 2880 washers

Artist: George Hart (georgehart.com)

Patron: Ingrid Daubechies

Location: Fitzpatrick Center, Duke University

Ingrid Daubechies appreciates that. The James B. Duke Professor of Mathematics
and professor of electrical and computer engineering at Duke, Daubechies
constructed the mathematical wavelets used to process signals for image
compression—making possible the jpeg2000 image format, for example. She is now
employing “big data” to analyze artwork, and decorates her office with museum
postcards of paintings. When she recently won the handsomely endowed Nemmers
Prize for her work in theoretical signal processing, she saw it as an
opportunity to realize an idea she’d been mulling for a while —to commission a
sculpture by Hart for Duke University.

“I think his work is beautiful,” she says. “The way the pieces fit together,
the variation and repetition—when you see it you get a ‘wow’ feeling that’s
common to both math and art.”

On a Sunday afternoon, October 20, the entire Duke community is invited to
help to piece together the multi-part sculpture before it is hoisted into the
air, where it will hang from the FCIEMAS ceiling into the atrium stairwell.
There will be snacks, tools and tables ready for anyone who drops in to help
bolt together some of the laser-cut aluminum components that will form the
four orbs.

“I really like the idea of a whole group of people coming to work together and
have fun together," says Daubechies. “The Fitzpatrick Center is the perfect
space to house a sculpture like this, both because of its architecture and its
interdisciplinary nature.”

George Hart will be there to oversee the effort, which he likens to an old-
fashioned barn-raising. He’s led several similar group installations before,
including at Albion College (see video). “I like this way of installing the
sculpture because it creates a sense of community,” he says. “People who
participate feel a sense of ownership—‘I helped build that sculpture.’ Even if
they just put in one screw, it ties them to the work and gets them engaged in
the world of art.”

As a computer science professor with a doctoral degree in electrical and
computer engineering, he also appreciates that the work is being installed in
a space frequented by engineers. “The design is inspired by math, but the
sculpture has to hold together and not fall apart,” he says with a laugh.
“That’s where the engineering comes in.

“I hope when people view it they will be curious—about the angles, about how
the shape changes from one orb to the next, from a geometric to an organic
form,” he says. “The ultimate goal is to get people to think about math. The
professor in me never sleeps.”

## Orb in Progress

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

