

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Matthew Cornwell

May 1, 2013

Actor

**Graduation Year:** 2000

**Degree at Duke:**  
Bachelor of Science

**Major/Program:**  
Mechanical Engineering

> As an engineer, you’re learning how to think creatively. You’re accessing
> both sides of your brain much more than the layperson would assume.

Getting a Duke engineering degree as preparation for becoming an actor? For
Matthew Cornwell, it wasn’t the most direct path, but it’s worked just fine.

“Whether it’s ever expressly stated or not, as an engineer, you’re learning
how to think creatively,” he points out. “You’re accessing both sides of your
brain much more than the layperson would assume.”

Similarly, actors don’t get by on raw talent, emotion, and passion alone. They
use a series of disciplines and techniques – a process, a framework – if they
practice their art at a high level. “To succeed and be versatile, you can’t
just sort of survive on raw talent,” Cornwell says.

Cornwell was a sophomore in high school in Tampa, Florida, when the halves of
his brain began vying to influence the direction of his life. He excelled at
science in school, and when he went to the dollar theater by himself and
watched Jim Carrey play Ace Ventura, Cornwell remembers, it was a revelation.

“I thought, yeah, that’s what I want to do,” he remembers. “I was always
funny, but I was nonchalant. I was more likely to be a teacher’s pet than a
cutup. But I thought, ‘This thing that I have inside? People do actually make
a living letting that thing out.’ What kept me from totally focusing at that
point was the idea of a real-world job and a real-world career and that what I
should be focusing on was education and college.”

So, Cornwell accepted early admission at Duke, “a no-brainer, because it was
really the only top-tier school I had applied to,” and after arriving in
Durham, he was pleased to find himself on a campus with something to offer
both his cranial hemispheres.

Though he was majoring in mechanical engineering, he relished the opportunity
to take any course that interested him. And at Duke, many did.

“Whether the creative side of me or the engineer side of me, I craved all the
disciplines.” He remembers selecting and being fascinated by a course in
cognitive psychology: “The more random class I could take, the better.” And he
took an introduction to acting class with Jeffery West, who encouraged
Cornwell to audition for the fall show, “Arcadia.”

Cornwell made a mistake: He declined the offer.

“I used the excuse that engineering was going to take far too much time with
classes and homework, so I wouldn’t be able to do it,” he remembers with
regret. “But there was also the fear that I would be such an outsider, and
honestly, I hadn’t really done anything at that level before.”

He graduated still unsure about which career direction to take. And so he did
what many students before and since have done: He enrolled in a master’s
program, to study acoustics at Georgia Tech.

That degree would eventually be his ticket to two years with an architectural
consulting firm. And while at Georgia Tech, he overcame his fears and
auditioned for parts in plays being produced on campus. He got those parts,
and performing was as wonderful as he had imagined all those years before.

“Hilariously enough, Georgia Tech has a really good theater, although they
don’t have a theater program,” he says. “But the theater that they run is one
of the longest running theaters in Atlanta. We put on some really good
productions, and that really exposed me to doing some theater at the next
level.”

It also led him to join The Professional Actors Studio in Atlanta, which helps
actors learn and master the disciplines that can make them better through
ongoing classes, “like joining a gym.” During a performance showcase with the
studio, a talent agent signed him, and “that was when the snowball started
rolling down the hill,” Cornwell remembers. Cornwell quit his consulting gig
and accepted an offer to begin teaching at the studio, a role he still holds
today more than a decade later. He is earning his living as an actor.

Cornwell has landed several recurring roles in TV dramas and sitcoms,
including “The Gates,” “Nashville” and “Reed Between the Lines.” He’s hoping
to build on that momentum and become a starring cast member in a series. In
the meantime, he and his wife, Brooke Jaye Taylor, whom he met on the set of a
Longhorn Steakhouse commercial, have launched a Web series called Becky &
Barry (watch at beckyandbarry.com) about two actors and the trials and
tribulations of show business.

And whenever he acts in stage productions, he notices that his engineering
expertise is never far beneath the surface.

“If I’m in a space that is acoustically horrible, it definitely haunts me all
that could be done to make the space better,” he says. “Everything from what
seats they’ve installed, how they shaped the walls, the audiovisual systems,
and whether they’ve carefully chosen building systems to make sure they were
quiet. That’s definitely where the education comes back to help me or haunt
me.”

He pauses and laughs at himself. “But it was really helpful in setting up a
home studio.”

_Originally published Summer 2013. Written by Bryan Gilmer._

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

