

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Measuring the Lightest Touch Your Body Responds To

February 23, 2023 | By Ken Kingery

Duke engineers and neuroscientists put four touch-sensitive, electrically
responsive proteins to the test

It’s a well-established fact that every cell in your body responds to physical
touch. They don’t all react in exactly the same way—a cell in your spleen
won’t jump like a frightened cat if it gets poked by a needle. But throughout
the human body, the physical materials and structures that envelop and support
cells as they grow and go about their daily tasks play a large role in their
health and behavior.

For example, it’s impossible to get complex biological structures like blood
vessels and nerves to grow in a Petri dish; they need the right combination of
external structures for support. The hairs inside your ears that translate
vibrations to electrical signals sent to your brain are sensitive to even
nanoscale movements. And various cells within the gut sense when your stomach
is full to fulfill their digestive duties.

Despite knowing that touch and physical force play an important role in so
many aspects of biological processes, little is known about how it all works.
Different cells have different pathways for sensing and transmitting signals
generated by touch. And growing cells outside of the body that can be placed
in some sort of experimental setup capable of measuring these inputs and
outputs is not easy.

In a paper published online February 16 in the journal Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences, mechanical engineers and neurobiologists from
Duke University make a dent in that knowledge gap. Using atomic force
microscopy and electrophysiology, the researchers measure the upper and lower
limits of the functions of four proteins that emit electric signals in
response to physical stimuli. The results show a wide breadth in their
abilities, opening new questions about how specialized touch-sensitive cells
manage to operate as well as they do.

“Every sensory system is limited by the amount of background noise it has to
overcome to detect a signal. Our eyes can sense light energy very close to
this limit, making them extremely sensitive to even single photons,” said
Michael Young, a research scientist at Myrobalan Therapeutics who conducted
the research as a PhD student at Duke. “But even with cells loaded up with
these proteins, I needed to add up to a billion times more energy than that
threshold to generate any detectible signal. It was pretty surprising,
actually.”

The four proteins that Young investigated were members of two cellular
families—Piezo1 and Piezo2, and TREK1 and TRAAK. Piezo2 is found mostly in
sensory cells, like those in the skin that generate touch-sensitive signals
for neurons to carry to the brain, while it’s close relative Piezo1 is found
in low levels in cells that help regulate automated biological processes like
blood pressure and cell migration. TREK1 and TRAAK are both found mostly in
the nervous system, playing an unknown role that help transmit signals, and
can be activated by many different types of stimuli other than touch.

To measure the boundaries of these cells’ abilities, Young worked with Jörg
Grandl, professor of neurobiology at Duke, to grow cells filled to the brim
with one of the proteins in question. He then went to Stefan Zauscher,
professor of mechanical engineering and materials science at Duke, to figure
out how best to measure their response when poked and prodded.

Zauscher set the team up with an atomic force microscope. With a cantilever
beam barely visible to the naked eye, the machine can apply forces as small as
10 piconewtons—a force on the order of 10 million times less than a feather
resting on the back of your hand.

> “Every sensory system is limited by the amount of background noise it has to
> overcome to detect a signal. Our eyes can sense light energy very close to
> this limit, making them extremely sensitive to even single photons. But even
> with cells loaded up with these proteins, I needed to add up to a billion
> times more energy than that threshold to generate any detectible signal."
>
> michael young

For each protein-filled cell, Young measured the minimum amount of force
required to elicit a detectible signal, the most amount of electrical activity
it could generate and the general behavior of the signal. For example, whether
it was short and intense or long and mild.

Surprisingly, Young found a large range in their reactions, despite the
proteins’ similarities. Some cells emitted electrical responses almost
instantaneously while others had a delay more than 10 times longer. There was
also a wide range of sensitivities, begging the question of what other factors
might play a role in how these proteins help regulate the body’s biochemical
activities.

“We simply loaded these cells up with proteins to ensure we got a response,
but their specific placement on the cell might be more important to how they
work, or their structural environment might play an important role,” Young
said. “It would be interesting to compare these results to cells that already
feature these proteins, because they might have evolved to have the right
number of them in exactly the right places to optimize their responses.”

This research was supported by the National Institutes of Health
(5R01NS110552), The Ruth K. Broad Biomedical Research Foundation and the Duke
Institute for Brain Sciences (DIBS).

“The energetics of rapid cellular mechanotransduction.” Michael N. Young,
Michael J. Sindoni, Amanda H. Lewis, Stefan Zauscher, and Jörg Grandl. PNAS,
120 (8) e2215747120, February 16, 2023. DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2215747120

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

