

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Mechanical Engineering, Biology Intertwined

May 21, 2013

At Stanford, Katrina Wisdom E'12 is combining her love of mechanical
engineering, biology and dance

Several months into her Pratt Undergraduate Fellowship, Katrina Wisdom (E’12)
was handed a mailer by her faculty advisor, Chuan-Hua Chen, Alfred M. Hunt
Faculty Scholar and assistant professor of mechanical engineering.

Inside were dozens of cicada wings, freshly arrived from Australia.
Researchers at James Cook University had read about Chen’s work, and suspected
that the same phenomenon of jumping drops he recently discovered could also be
occurring on the surfaces of cicada wings.

As it turned out, Wisdom would spend more than a year perfecting a strategy
for capturing the jumping drops on film. The results of all that hard work
would end up being published in the prestigious journal Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences

Now a first-year graduate student at Stanford University in mechanical
engineering, she said that the experience in Chen’s lab as a Pratt Fellow, and
the all the obstacles she had to overcome, prepared her well for research at
the next level.

"It can be very difficult to image wings,” Wisdom said. “Biology is messy. We
tried many different setups to capture the droplets. Over time, we found
creative solutions to the imaging challenges. It was important to me to learn
as an undergraduate how to methodically work through a problem in a way that
leads to a solution.”

At Stanford, she is combining her love of mechanical engineering with biology.
While she has left behind cicada wings, she is now focused on humans and their
muscles, which also ties into another of her passions, dancing.

“I’m looking at applying mechanical engineering principles to understand
complex biological systems, especially muscles,” she said. “We want to know
how changing mechanical forces influence muscles to change, for example, in
bedridden hospital patients or in astronauts. By learning more about the
effects of mechanical loads on muscles, we hope to develop computational
models of the process and enable more effective treatments for patients with
muscular disorders.

“My Pratt Fellows experience taught me not only how to conduct research, but
also how to become a good problem solver,” Wisdom continued. “Dr. Chen teaches
each of his students the skills and practices necessary to being an effective
researcher. These are skills undergraduates don’t often learn through normal
coursework, so I am grateful to have learned them through Pratt Fellows.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

