

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Media Coverage

Check out the latest media coverage of Duke engineering research and
education.

The Chronicle | May 24, 2021

### ‘Our Time is Finite’: Pratt Dean Ravi Bellamkonda Talks Success, the
Undergraduate Experience and Living a Good Life

Featuring Ravi Bellamkonda

Dean Ravi Bellamkonda talks about how he's reshaped the undergraduate
engineering experience during his time at Duke.

National Science Foundation | May 19, 2021

### Researchers Develop Mathematical Model to Predict Disease Spread Patterns

Featuring Gaby Katul

New CEE Professor Gaby Katul works with colleagues to use COVID-19 data to
develop a model that can predict where, in what patterns and how quickly
disease will spread.

Discover Magazine | May 17, 2021

### Why Scientists Don’t Want Our Poop To Go To Waste

Featuring Marc Deshusses

CEE Professor Marc Deshusses discusses a number of evolving technologies aimed
at making better use of human waste, including his own startup, 374Water.

Endpoints | May 10, 2021

### Startup Sets Out to Tackle the Gene Therapy Manufacturing Crisis

Featuring Ashutosh Chilkoti

BME Chair and Professor Ashutosh Chilkoti has helped his former PhD student
Kelli Luginbuhl secure $7 million in seed funding to launch a start-up aimed
at increasing the manufacturing efficiency of the adeno-associated viruses
(AAVs) used to deliver gene therapies to cells.

The Verge | May 7, 2021

### The Autonomous World is Shrinking - It's Overdue

Featuring Missy Cummings

ECE Professor Missy Cummings has long been critical of claims that self-
driving cars are in our near future. It's a view that is now coming to be seen
as reality.

Los Angeles Times | May 3, 2021

### The (Near) Future of Driving: Cars That Watch You Watch Them Steer

Featuring Missy Cummings

ECE Professor Missy Cummings comments on the technologies that monitor
drivers' attentions in transit.

Federal Drive with Tom Temin | April 30, 2021

### FDIC Partners With Duke Engineering to Work on the Next Round of
Innovation

Featuring Jimmie Lenz

Jimmie Lenz talks about the FDIC's strategic partnership with Duke Engineering
that will allow students to work with the FDIC on innovation in topics like
finance and risk management.

IEEE Spectrum | April 29, 2021

### For The First Time, Electronics Printed On Paper Can Be Fully Recycled

Featuring Aaron Franklin

ECE Professor Aaron Franklin has developed long-lasting devices written with
carbon nanomaterial inks that can be remade into new ones when their work is
done.

BBC News | April 20, 2021

### Could Electric Tattoos Be the Next Step In Body Art?

Featuring Nick Williams

Nick Williams, an ECE PhD student in the laboratory of Aaron Franklin,
comments on the technological advances behind electrically active tattoos.

NBC News | April 19, 2021

### Solar Panels Are Reaching Their Limit. These Crystals Could Change That.

Featuring David Mitzi

MEMS Professor David Mitzi calls an emerging class of materials "one of the
most exciting opportunities for solar cells in the immediate future."

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * …
  * 11
  * 12
  * 13
  * 14
  * 15
  * 16
  * 17
  * 18
  * 19
  * …
  * next ›
  * last »

## News from Duke Engineering

March 29, 2023 | The News & Observer

### That Selfie You Posted on Instagram? Companies Are Using it in Unethical
Ways

March 28, 2023 | Duke Institute for Brain Sciences

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

View all news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

