

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Media Coverage

Check out the latest media coverage of Duke engineering research and
education.

IEEE Spectrum | March 11, 2021

### Duke University and Facebook’s Connectivity Lab Bring Better Optical
Communications to Light

Featuring Maiken Mikkelsen

ECE Professor Maiken Mikkelsen is working with the Facebook Connectivity Lab
to develop a technique that could eventually lead to terabit per second laser
links.

PBS North Carolina | March 10, 2021

### Coded Bias Panel Discussion

Featuring Helen Li

ECE Professor Hai "Helen" Li joins a panel discussion of bias in algorithms
and machine learning in conjunction with a preview of the upcoming Independent
Lens film, "Coded Bias."

The Wall Street Journal | March 8, 2021

### Quantum-Computing Startup IonQ Plans Public Debut in $2 Billion SPAC
Merger

Featuring Jungsang Kim, Chris Monroe

Founded by ECE Professors Jungsang Kim and Chris Monroe, IonQ is set to be the
first publically traded company focused entirely on quantum computing hardware
and software.

Fox Business | March 8, 2021

### US Crowd-Safety Firm Evolv to Go Public in $1.7 Billion SPAC Deal

Featuring David Smith

Founded through metamaterials technology developed by ECE Professor David
Smith, Evolv is going public. The company uses AI technology and sensors to
screen people in public spaces such as stadiums, hospitals, schools and
entertainment venues among others.

IEEE Spectrum | March 8, 2021

### COVID's Unlikely Offspring: The Rise of Smartwatch as Illness Detector

Featuring Jessilyn Dunn

BME Professor Jessilyn Dunn is testing the role of smartwatches as another
tool to use to detect physical signs of COVID-19.

Digital Trends | March 1, 2021

### Wearables Don’t Work the Same on Dark Skin. It’s Time to Change That

Featuring Jessilyn Dunn

BME Professor Jessilyn Dunn adds her expertise to an article discussing how
well the wearable technology industry is addressing issues of accuracy of
wrist-worn heart rate monitors with dark skin tones.

The New York Times | February 23, 2021

### Engine Maker Under Scrutiny After Series of Aircraft Mishaps

Featuring Robert Kielb

MEMS Professor Robert Kielb comments on a recent string of failures in the fan
blades of Pratt & Whitney airplane engines.

Discover Magazine | February 8, 2021

### The Taj Mahal: Can India Save This Corroding Beauty?

Featuring Michael Bergin

CEE Professor Mike Bergin helps explain why India's Taj Mahol is browning over
the years and what kinds of local efforts can be done to combat the issue.

Smithsonian Magazine | January 28, 2021

###  Can Smartwatches Be Adapted to Help Detect Covid-19 Infections?

Featuring Jessilyn Dunn

New Atlas | January 25, 2021

### Exercise Drives Muscles to Fight Chronic Inflammation on Their Own

Featuring Nenad Bursac

BME Professor Nenad Bursac uses his lab-grown human muscle platform to show
that muscle has an innate ability to ward off damaging effects of long-term
inflammation when exercised

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * …
  * 13
  * 14
  * 15
  * 16
  * 17
  * 18
  * 19
  * 20
  * 21
  * …
  * next ›
  * last »

## News from Duke Engineering

March 29, 2023 | The News & Observer

### That Selfie You Posted on Instagram? Companies Are Using it in Unethical
Ways

March 28, 2023 | Duke Institute for Brain Sciences

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

View all news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

