

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Media Coverage

Check out the latest media coverage of Duke engineering research and
education.

The Herald Sun | June 21, 2022

### Water in Raleigh, Durham, Chapel Hill Contains Pfas Above New EPA Health
Advisory Levels

Featuring Lee Ferguson

Lee Ferguson runs a state-of-the-art lab that can detect PFOA and PFOS
compounds as low as one part per trillion (ppt) - but even that is still too
high for the new EPA guidelines of .02 ppt for PFOA and .004 ppt for PFOS.

Tech Times | June 21, 2022

### Physics for AI: Venture to Help Artifical Intelligence to Make Own
Discoveries, But Is It Ideal?

Featuring Willie Padilla

Is it a good idea to teach physics to AI to help it make novel discoveries, as
ECE Professor Willie Padilla recently demonstrated with metasurface
technology?

New Scientist | June 16, 2022

### Why Does Time Fly or Drag? How Emotions Warp Our Temporal Perceptions

Featuring Adrian Bejan

MEMS Professor Adrian Bejan says the brain’s processing speed slows as we age
– caused by the greater complexity of our neural networks that means signals
travel greater distances.

Science | June 14, 2022

### Better Than Crispr? Another Way To Fix Gene Problems

Featuring Charlie Gersbach

BME Professor Charlie Gersbach talks about how editing the epigenome might be
an even more exciting prospect than editing DNA with CRISPR-based tools.

HiPEAC Blog | June 12, 2022

### Machine Learning Should Consider Vertical Integration

Featuring Hai "Helen" Li

HiPEAC 2022 keynote speaker Hai "Helen" Li is the Clare Boothe Luce Professor
of Electrical & Computer Engineering at Duke. HiPEAC Blog caught up with Li in
advance of the HiPEAC conference to delve into the fascinating—and now
ubiquitous—topic of machine learning.

Carnegie Climate Governance Initiative (C2G) Blog | June 8, 2022

### Would Solar Radiation Modification Increase or Decrease Overall Risk?

Featuring Tyler Felgenhauer, Mark Borsuk

Duke risk engineers write that a key consideration in deciding whether to
pursue solar radiation modification (SRM) to offset global warming should be a
comparison of the extent of climate risk that the technology is able to reduce
against the severity of any countervailing risks that it may engender.

SustainabilityNext | June 8, 2022

### A New Paradigm for the Water and Sanitation Crisis

Featuring Marc Deshusses

Clean-tech has enormous potential to shift the waste management paradigm from
treatment and disposal to resource recovery and pollutant elimination, writes
Duke Engineering's Marc Deshusses.

Architect | June 7, 2022

### Graphene: A 'Supermaterial' Future

Featuring Po-Chun Hsu

Boston 25 News | June 6, 2022

### Manhole Explosions Add Chaos to Morning Rush

Featuring Cynthia Rudin

ECE/CS Professor Cynthia Rudin explains why New York City might have been a
special case in being able to predict which manhole covers were in danger of
exploding after an incident in Boston.

The Economic Times | June 3, 2022

### The Building Blocks of Transformational Leadership

Featuring Sanyin Siang

In this exclusive interview, the renowned executive coach and Duke Engineering
Management faculty member shared in-depth insights.

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * …
  * 3
  * 4
  * 5
  * 6
  * 7
  * 8
  * 9
  * 10
  * 11
  * …
  * next ›
  * last »

## News from Duke Engineering

March 29, 2023 | The News & Observer

### That Selfie You Posted on Instagram? Companies Are Using it in Unethical
Ways

March 28, 2023 | Duke Institute for Brain Sciences

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

View all news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

