

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Media Coverage

Check out the latest media coverage of Duke engineering research and
education.

The Australian | December 7, 2020

### Thirty Expats Initially Feared ‘Stranded’ After Plane Malfunction Touch
Down on Home Soil

Featuring Alanna Manfredini

First-year MEMS student Alanna Manfredini touts Duke's COVID-19 testing
procedures as making her feel safe despite moving to a new country amidst a
pandemic.

ASCE Civil Engineering Source | December 3, 2020

### Duke Researchers Ask: Can Soil Temperature Predict a Landslide?

Featuring Manolis Veveakis

CEE Professor Manolis Veveakis has developed a new mathematical model that
uses temperatures within a deep-seated landslide to help predict the sudden,
catastrophic failure of the moving land mass.

Microsoft The AI Blog | December 1, 2020

### ‘All hands on deck’: How Duke University and AI for Health Raced to Create
a COVID-19 Solution for Patients

Featuring Amanda Randles

BME Professor Amanda Randles and Microsoft recently teamed up to make a
ventilator splitter resistor system that can make it safer for patients to
share the life-saving devices.

Psychology Today | November 30, 2020

### Why Time Goes By Faster As We Age

Featuring Adrian Bejan

MEMS Professor Adrian Bejan hypothesizes that, over time, the rate at which we
process visual information slows down, and this is what makes time "speed up"
as we grow older.

WHQR | November 19, 2020

### CoastLine: Water Contamination By PFAS Still Plagues NC And The Cape Fear
Region

Featuring Lee Ferguson

Nature Communications | November 16, 2020

### The Once and Future Gene Therapy

Featuring Charles Gersbach

BME Professor Charlie Gersbach co-pens an article that summarizes recent
advances in gene therapy and expectations for the near future.

Science Magazine | November 13, 2020

### Photon-Engineered Radiative Cooling Textiles

Featuring Po-Chun Hsu

MEMS Professor Po-Chun Hsu co-pens a perspective article on innovative
textiles that help to better cool the person who wears them.

Current Science Daily | November 5, 2020

### The Promise of Design Evolution: Adrian Bejan's New Look at Life and
Machines

Featuring Adrian Bejan

An essay from MEMS Professor Adrian Bejan suggests engineers look at design
with an understanding of "the limit between the possible and the impossible,
and how to push the limit, if possible."

Physics Today | November 3, 2020

### Quantum Computing Ramps Up in Private Sector

Featuring Jungsang Kim

ECE Professor Jungsang Kim lays out what is needed for quantum computing to
take off before quantum supremacy is achieved.

ASME | October 29, 2020

### The Promise of Design Evolution

Featuring Adrian Bejan

Understanding why designs get stuck in a basic form can help engineers pursue
fruitful avenues of design.

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * …
  * 15
  * 16
  * 17
  * 18
  * 19
  * 20
  * 21
  * 22
  * 23
  * next ›
  * last »

## News from Duke Engineering

March 29, 2023 | The News & Observer

### That Selfie You Posted on Instagram? Companies Are Using it in Unethical
Ways

March 28, 2023 | Duke Institute for Brain Sciences

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

View all news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

