

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Media Coverage

Check out the latest media coverage of Duke engineering research and
education.

Materials Today | March 21, 2022

### Model Predicts New Dimension for Metal Oxides

Featuring Stefano Curtarolo

Methodspace | March 21, 2022

### Years After Graduating, I Still Rely on Skills Gained from
Interdisciplinary Research

Featuring Sarah Diringer

Former CEE PhD student Sarah Diringer writes about how working with Bass
Connections and the Duke Global Health Institute teams helped her see water as
part of an intricate web of people and the environment.

Motherboard | March 11, 2022

### Eye-Tracking Tech Is Another Reason the Metaverse Will Suck

Featuring Maria Gorlatova

ECE Professor Maria Gorlatova has developed a set of "virtual eyes" that can
help train metaverse platforms to respond to users' eye movements.

Ars Technica | March 7, 2022

### Ionq’s New Ions Have Lower Error, Great Performance on a New Benchmark

Featuring Jungsang Kim

ECE Professor Jungsang Kim talks about a new way to compare the performance of
quantum computers operating with different underlying technologies.

Science | March 2, 2022

### The Toll of White Privilege

Featuring Adrienne Stiff-Roberts

ECE Adrienne Stiff-Roberts adds personal insights into an exploration of the
struggles Black physicists face in bringing more Black students into the
field, and why diversity advocates agree that lasting change won’t happen
until the existing dominant white male culture becomes fully engaged in
finding solutions.

Newsweek | February 21, 2022

### Why Your Kitchen Sponge Is the Ideal Breeding Ground for Bacteria

Featuring Lingchong You

BME Professor Lingchong You has shown that it's not just leftovers that make
dish sponges breeding grounds for bacterial cultures—the structure of the
sponge itself plays a role.

Forbes | February 10, 2022

### Can Quantum Battery Research Extend Electric Vehicle Range? IonQ And
Hyundai Intend To Find Out

Featuring Chris Monroe, Jungsang Kim

IonQ quantum computing, co-founded by Duke ECE Professors Jungsang Kim and
Chris Monroe, and Hyundai Motor Company recently announced a partnership
focused on using quantum computing to study lithium compounds and battery
chemistry.

WRAL | February 2, 2022

### Duke Researchers Using Smart Watches to Detect Early Signs of COVID-19
Infection

Featuring Jessilyn Dunn

WRAL TechWire  | February 2, 2022

### Duke Biomedical Engineers Report Potential Advance in Fighting Kidney
Disease

Featuring Samira Musah

Physics World | January 26, 2022

### Angled Light Beams Allow OCT to Image Deeper Into Skin

Featuring Adam Wax

Duke BME Professor Adam Wax has developed a new dual-axis optical coherence
tomography (DA-OCT) system that increases the imaging depth by almost 50%
compared with conventional OCT.

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * …
  * 5
  * 6
  * 7
  * 8
  * 9
  * 10
  * 11
  * 12
  * 13
  * …
  * next ›
  * last »

## News from Duke Engineering

March 29, 2023 | The News & Observer

### That Selfie You Posted on Instagram? Companies Are Using it in Unethical
Ways

March 28, 2023 | Duke Institute for Brain Sciences

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

View all news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

