

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Media Coverage

Check out the latest media coverage of Duke engineering research and
education.

Brave New Planet | October 27, 2020

### Robots and the Future of War

Featuring Missy Cummings

ECE Missy Cummings joins a panel of experts on a podcast to talk about a wide
range of topics regarding the moral and technical challenges of autonomous
lethal weapons.

Forbes | October 19, 2020

### Missionary Misfits: Meet A Former Fighter Pilot, Current Autonomous
Vehicles Road Warrior

Featuring Missy Cummings

A profile of ECE Professor Missy Cummings, who is dubbed a "Missionary
Misfit," someone who is supremely talented, endlessly curious, fanatically
committed, and who is unconstrained by disciplinary boundaries.

Severna Park Voice | October 12, 2020

### Severn School Senior Modifies Surgical Helmets To Protect Against
Coronavirus

Featuring Duke COVID-19 Engineering Response Team

Severn School senior Regan King uses open-source plans for 3D-printed adaptors
that can be used to retrofit helmets to help protect her father and his
coworkers at the local hospital.

STAT | October 7, 2020

### With ‘Nutrition Labels’ and an Anthropologist’s Eye, Duke Pioneers a New
Approach to AI in Medicine

Featuring Dan Buckland

Dan Buckland, assistant professor of surgery and mechanical engineering, is
working with colleagues to develop tools that use AI in health care while
making sure they're easy to use for frontline workers.

San Francisco Estuary | October 5, 2020

### Match Points in Stormwater Soup

Featuring Lee Ferguson

NOVA  | September 29, 2020

### Finding My Voice

Featuring Khari Johnson

Biomedical engineer, Khari Johnson, explains how underrepresentation in STEM
fields is not due to lack of interest, aptitude or talent, but instead due to
a number of systemic barriers.

The New York Times | September 28, 2020

### At the French Open, Cold Weather and a Ball That Will Not Behave

Featuring Adrian Bejan

MEMS Professor Adrian Bejan helps explain how temperature and weather are
affecting how tennis balls bounce at the French Open this year.

National Geographic | September 23, 2020

### How You Perceive Time May Depend on Your Income

Featuring Adrian Bejan

MEMS Professor Adrian Bejan weighs in on whether or not how the brain
processes memories suggests that people who can afford more novel experiences
will recall having lived longer lives.

The Washington Post | September 23, 2020

### The New Apple Watch Says My Lungs May Be Sick. Or Perfect. It Can’t
Decide.

Featuring Jessilyn Dunn

BME Professor Jessilyn Dunn is excited that the new Apple Watch includes a
pulse oximeter, but wants to know how accurate it actually is before people
begin relying on its data.

Atlas Obscura | August 27, 2020

### The Electrifying Science of Jellyfish Sprites, Explained

Featuring Steve Cummer

ECE Professor Steve Cummer helps explain how why it sometimes looks like red
tentacles are dangling in the sky.

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * …
  * 16
  * 17
  * 18
  * 19
  * 20
  * 21
  * 22
  * 23
  * 24
  * next ›
  * last »

## News from Duke Engineering

March 29, 2023 | The News & Observer

### That Selfie You Posted on Instagram? Companies Are Using it in Unethical
Ways

March 28, 2023 | Duke Institute for Brain Sciences

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

View all news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

