

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Media Coverage

Check out the latest media coverage of Duke engineering research and
education.

Boston Globe | May 1, 2020

### Smartwatches Could Help Find Early Signs of Coronavirus by Tracking Heart
Rate

Featuring Jessilyn Dunn

BME Professor Jessilyn Dunn's grant to use questionnaires and smartwatch data
to search for biometric warning signs of COVID-19 is featured in a roundup of
similar efforts.

Forbes | May 1, 2020

### Duke Engineer Focusing on Robotics Sees Oil and Gas at the Forefront of
Technology

Featuring Dianna Liu

Dianna Liu (ME, BME '12) is featured for her startup ARIX Technologies, Inc.,
which among other projects, is creating a robot crawler to help inspect oil
pipelines.

CNN Business | April 28, 2020

### Tesla's Latest Autopilot Feature Is Slowing Down for Green Lights, Too

Featuring Missy Cummings

ECE Professor Mary "Missy" Cummings warns of a newly released Tesla feature
that may lead to traffic crashes, especially as other drivers may not expect a
Tesla in front of them to slow at a green light.

News & Observer | April 24, 2020

### Hundreds of Duke Students Have Lost Internships. Now They’re Creating
Their Own.

Featuring Steve McClelland

Executive In Residence Steve McClelland helps get "Project Phoenix" off the
ground, a program that will place teams of technology-minded students together
to work remotely over the summer on projects for businesses, government
organizations and academic institutions.

WUNC | April 24, 2020

### Battered by Matthew and Florence, North Carolina Must Brace for More
Intense Hurricanes

Featuring Ana Barros

A new report on climate change also forecasts rising temperatures, increased
precipitation, disruptive sea-level rise and longer droughts.

Scientific American | April 20, 2020

### Engineers Offer DIY Solutions to Coronavirus Equipment Shortages

Featuring Duke COVID-19 Engineering Response Team

The Duke COVID-19 Engineering Response Team's efforts to 3D-print face shields
for Duke Health is included in a roundup article about DIY solutions emerging
around the country.

The Toronto Star | April 6, 2020

### The COVID-19 Time Warp: Why It Feels Like Time Has Slowed During This
Pandemic

Featuring Adrian Bejan

MEMS Professor Adrian Bejan suggests that the first month of social distancing
due to COVID-19 seems to have dragged on so long to some people because they
are experiencing many new things and their brains are working hard to take
them all in.

ABC11 | April 6, 2020

### Duke Makes 3D-Printed Face Shields for Duke Health, UNC Health to Ease
Equipment Shortage During COVID-19 Pandemic

Featuring Ken Gall

The Covid Engineering Response Team led by Ken Gall works with peers across
Duke and UNC to tweak 3D-printed face shield designs for mass production.

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * …
  * 16
  * 17
  * 18
  * 19
  * 20
  * 21
  * 22
  * 23
  * 24

## News from Duke Engineering

March 29, 2023 | The News & Observer

### That Selfie You Posted on Instagram? Companies Are Using it in Unethical
Ways

March 28, 2023 | Duke Institute for Brain Sciences

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

View all news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

