

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Media Coverage

Check out the latest media coverage of Duke engineering research and
education.

The Washington Post | May 29, 2020

### Wearable Tech Can Spot Coronavirus Symptoms Before You Even Realize You’re
Sick

Featuring Jessilyn Dunn

In a feature detailing several studies looking to see if wearable fitness
trackers can spot COVID-19 infections, BME Professor Jessiliyn Dunn talks
about one such study underway at Duke and how previous work has shown that all
smartwatches her laboratory has tested can provide usable data that does not
differ greatly depending on skin tone.

The Conversation  | May 29, 2020

### Gold Rush, Mercury Legacy

Featuring PhD student Austin Wadle (Hsu-Kim lab)

The New York Times | May 26, 2020

### A Case for Cooperation Between Machines and Humans

Featuring Missy Cummings

ECE Professor Missy Cummings argues that degree of collaboration between
robots and humans in autonomous systems should be driven by the amount of
uncertainty in the system and the criticality of outcomes.

Chemical and Engineering News | May 26, 2020

### Method Produces Array of Aligned, Semiconducting Carbon Nanotubes for
Next-Gen Computer Chips

Featuring Aaron Franklin

ECE Professor Aaron Franklin comments on a new technique that approaches the
goals for the purity and density of carbon nanotubes that he helped define a
decade ago.

BBC World Service | May 18, 2020

### Does My Toilet Make Sense?

Featuring Sonia Grego

ECE Associate Research Professor Sonia Grego joins a podcast investigating
whether the flush toilet needs innovation.

MedGadget | May 18, 2020

### Personalized Blood Flow Modeling Benefits from Virtual Reality Interface

Featuring Amanda Randles

BME Professor Amanda Randles has developed a virtual interface for her fluid
dynamics simulator that can model blood flow within the body, including the
motion of individual blood cells.

Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology News | May 18, 2020

### New Retinal Imaging System May Be Used to Detect an Alzheimer’s Biomarker

Featuring Adam Wax

BME Professor Adam Wax has devised a new imaging device capable of measuring
both the thickness and texture of the various layers of the retina that could
be used to detect a biomarker of Alzheimer's disease, potentially offering a
widespread early warning system for the disease.

AOL | May 18, 2020

### 10 Asian American Contributions That Need More Recognition

Featuring Tuan Vo-Dinh

BME Professor Tuan Vo-Dinh his recognized for his scientific research
portfolio.

Chemical and Engineering News | May 4, 2020

### CFC Replacements Are a Source of Persistent Organic Pollution in the
Arctic

Featuring Lee Ferguson

CEE Professor Lee Ferguson offers expertise on the toxicity of PFAS short-
chain acids.

LA Times | May 4, 2020

### Is Time Flying By Oddly Quickly During COVID-19? Here’s Why You May Feel
That Way.

Featuring Adrian Bejan

MEMS Professor Adrian Bejan believes it's possible the novelty of the
quarantine experience could actually explain why weeks may feel like they're
dragging to some.

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * …
  * 16
  * 17
  * 18
  * 19
  * 20
  * 21
  * 22
  * 23
  * 24
  * next ›
  * last »

## News from Duke Engineering

March 29, 2023 | The News & Observer

### That Selfie You Posted on Instagram? Companies Are Using it in Unethical
Ways

March 28, 2023 | Duke Institute for Brain Sciences

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

View all news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

