

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Media Coverage

Check out the latest media coverage of Duke engineering research and
education.

National Institutes of Health | December 19, 2022

### Injectable, Radioactive Gel Synergizes With Chemotherapy to Shrink
Pancreatic Tumors

Featuring Ashutosh Chilkoti

The National Institutes of Health covers a recent study from Ashutosh Chilkoti
that investigates a new form of brachytherapy where radiation is delivered to
a tumor by injecting a radioactive biopolymer directly to the site.

Tech Explorist | December 7, 2022

### A Small Glowing Protein Allows Peering Into Living Tissues

Featuring Junjie Yao

Junjie Yao demonstrates proteins that emit longer wavelengths of near-infrared
light to help create detailed, hi-res biomedical images.

The Science Advisory Board | December 7, 2022

### Sound Waves Sort Extracellular Vesicles to Enable Liquid Biopsies,
Regenerative Therapies

Featuring Tony Jun Huang

Tony Jun Huang uses sound waves to separate small extracellular vesicles
(sEVs) from biofluids, laying the groundwork for the development of next-
generation liquid biopsies and regenerative therapies.

The Atlantic | December 7, 2022

### The Transcendent Brain

Featuring Adrian Bejan

Adrian Bejan offers an evolutionary explanation, based on the eye and the
brain, as to why we find the golden ratio so appealing.

NSF The Discovery Files | December 5, 2022

### Exploring The Microbiome

Featuring Claudia Gunsch

CEE Professor Claudia Gunsch and Dean Jerome Lynch join NSF Director
Sethuraman Panchanathan and others on a podcast about the new Duke Research
Center for Precision Microbiome Engineering, which will be creating microbiome
technologies that address challenges at the interface of human health and the
built environment.

Consumer Reports | October 27, 2022

### You Can’t Always Trust Claims on ‘Non-Toxic’ Cookware

Featuring Lee Ferguson

CEE Professor Lee Ferguson notes that PFAS chemicals aren't required to make
non-stick ceramic pans.

Science in Parallel | October 26, 2022

### Pushing Limits in Computing and Biology

Featuring Amanda Randles

BME Professor Amanda Randles joins a conversation about answering important
questions in biology and medicine with leadership class supercomputers.

Rebellion Research | October 21, 2022

### Top 10 Crypto Voices 2022

Featuring Jimmie Lenz

Nature | October 20, 2022

### Computer Science Has a Racism Problem: These Researchers Want to Fix It

Featuring Shaundra Daily

ECE Professor Shaundra Daily is featured for the programs she has created and
efforts she has pursued to change the student environment to encourage broader
participation.

Forbes | October 10, 2022

### Quantinuum Is On A Roll – 17 Significant Quantum Computing Achievements In
12 Months

Featuring Chris Monroe

ECE Professor Chris Monroe co-authors a string of papers solving problems for
linear quantum charged-coupled devices.

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * 1
  * 2
  * 3
  * 4
  * 5
  * 6
  * 7
  * 8
  * 9
  * …
  * next ›
  * last »

## News from Duke Engineering

March 29, 2023 | The News & Observer

### That Selfie You Posted on Instagram? Companies Are Using it in Unethical
Ways

March 28, 2023 | Duke Institute for Brain Sciences

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

View all news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

