

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Media Coverage

Check out the latest media coverage of Duke engineering research and
education.

Communicating with FINESSE | June 2, 2022

### Translational Engineering: Academics and Careers

Featuring Daniel A. Vallero

The civil engineer who is part of efforts to integrate ethics training into
Duke's engineering curriculum writes that entrepreneurial engineering
introduces the student to the marketplace. It makes the engineering student
think outside of the typical physics comfort zone. Whether the engineering
student realizes it, the marketplace is an important context, since engineers
often do all the hard work and provide the intellectual firepower for a
design.

Association for Computing Machinery | May 25, 2022

### People of ACM - Yiran Chen

Featuring Yiran Chen

A Q&A about the field of memory and storage systems with Yiran Chen from the
Association for Computing Machinery.

CBS 17 | May 12, 2022

### Girl Scouts STEM Day Returns to In-Person Event at Duke

Forbes | May 10, 2022

### Targets for Infection: How SARS-CoV-2 Damages the Kidneys

Featuring Samira Musah

Specialized cells developed in a laboratory by BME Professor Samira Musah
shows that COVID-19 can directly infect and damage kidney cells.

CBS 17 | April 25, 2022

### New device developed by Duke researchers could prevent hearing loss in
kids

Featuring Mark Palmeri

20/20 Magazine | April 18, 2022

### OCT Technology Could Help Cars “See”

Featuring Joe Izatt

BME Professor Joe Izatt is using his experience designing OCT machines to
improve LiDAR technology used to help robots and autonomous cars see the
world.

The Wall Street Journal | March 28, 2022

### Is Nuclear Power the Future?

Featuring Maxwell Tardif

ECE student Maxwell Tardif offers his opinion that the future of U.S. energy
should include a stronger commitment to nuclear power.

Sci NC | March 22, 2022

### Why Flush Toilets are Wasteful

Featuring Brian Hawkins, Lena Trotochaud

Modern flush toilets waste a gallon and a half of treated, potable water every
time you flush. And for many countries, wastewater infrastructure is too
expensive to install. Toilet engineers all over the world are trying to solve
this basic question: how do we get rid of waste efficiently?

Life Science | March 22, 2022

### 23 Amazing Women in Science and Math

Featuring Ingrid Daubechies

Math/ECE Professor Ingrid Daubechies is recognized as one of 23 all-time
amazing women in science and math

PBS North Carolina | March 22, 2022

### Why flush toilets are wasteful | Sci NC

Featuring Brian T. Hawkins, Lena Trotochaud

Modern flush toilets waste a gallon and a half of treated, potable water every
time you flush. The Duke Center for WaSH-AID is working on ways to get rid of
waste more efficiently.

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * …
  * 4
  * 5
  * 6
  * 7
  * 8
  * 9
  * 10
  * 11
  * 12
  * …
  * next ›
  * last »

## News from Duke Engineering

March 29, 2023 | The News & Observer

### That Selfie You Posted on Instagram? Companies Are Using it in Unethical
Ways

March 28, 2023 | Duke Institute for Brain Sciences

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

View all news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

