

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Media Coverage

Check out the latest media coverage of Duke engineering research and
education.

STAT | September 30, 2021

### A New Study Points to the Power of Wearables to Predict Even
Presymptomatic Infections, Suggesting Use One Day Against COVID-19

Featuring Jessilyn Dunn

BME Professors Jessilyn Dunn and Geoffrey Ginsburg infected willing
participants with common cold and flu viruses to provide the most rigorous
evidence yet that wearable health monitors can predict infections, even before
a person starts experiencing symptoms.

Psychology Today | September 27, 2021

### Time in the Mind

Featuring Adrian Bejan

MEMS Professor Adrian Bejan theorizes that the reason we remember our
childhood as lasting much longer than our adult life is due to the fact that
our brains process images more slowly as our bodies age.

The Guardian | September 23, 2021

### The Smart Toilet Era Is Here! Are You Ready to Share Your Analprint With
Big Tech?

Featuring Sonia Grego

ECE Professor Sonia Grego is one in a wave of researchers pushing to unlock an
incredible untapped opportunity for health data from a device that has barely
changed in 100 years...the humble toilet.

The New York Times | September 14, 2021

### The Godmother of the Digital Image

Featuring Ingrid Daubechies, Robert Calderbank, Cynthia Rudin

ECE/Math Professor Ingrid Daubechies is profiled by the New York Times from
her early successes in transforming how digital information is created and
conveyed to her current work applying her ingenious solutions to historic
paintings and advocating for women in science.

The NIH SPARC Program | September 13, 2021

### Using Computers to Simulate, Optimize, and Understand Neural Responses to
Electrical Signals to Treat Disease

Featuring Warren Grill

NPR Charlotte | September 8, 2021

### Why Are Charlotte’s Streetlights Turning Purple?

Featuring Nan Jokerst

ECE Professor Nan Jokerst explains why some street lights in Charlotte are
turning purple through a clever cupcake metaphor.

The Wall Street Journal | September 8, 2021

### Smartwatches Track Our Health. Smart Toilets Aren't Too Far Behind.

Featuring Sonia Grego

As part of a growing trend toward engineering smart toilets to monitor health,
Sonia Grego talks about Duke's efforts in the space, including a recent
prototype.

SIAM News | September 3, 2021

### 3D Printing and Mechanics

Featuring Lawrie Virgin

MEMS Professor Lawrie Virgin writes about how flexible 3D printing can be used
to help teach structural and mechanical engineering concepts.

CNN | August 23, 2021

### Investigators Probing Tesla Autopilot Crashes

Featuring Missy Cummings

BBC Sounds | August 20, 2021

### Rethinking Time

Featuring Adrian Bejan

MEMS Professor Adrien Bejan talks about his theory as to why time seems to
speed up as people age.

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * …
  * 8
  * 9
  * 10
  * 11
  * 12
  * 13
  * 14
  * 15
  * 16
  * …
  * next ›
  * last »

## News from Duke Engineering

March 29, 2023 | The News & Observer

### That Selfie You Posted on Instagram? Companies Are Using it in Unethical
Ways

March 28, 2023 | Duke Institute for Brain Sciences

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

View all news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

