

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Media Coverage

Check out the latest media coverage of Duke engineering research and
education.

New Scientist | July 12, 2021

### Smart Fabric Radiates Heat to Keep You Cooler in the Sun

Featuring Po-Chun Hsu

MEMS Professor Po-Chun Hsu is featured in an article about the demonstration
of new materials that help reflect sunlight while allowing heat to pass
through

The Institution of Engineering and Technology | June 30, 2021

### World Leading Engineers Shortlisted for £350,000 Research Prize

Featuring David Smith

ECE Professor David Smith is one of five researchers that have been
shortlisted for this year's Institution of Engineering and Technology’s (IET)
prestigious £350,000 A F Harvey Engineering Research Prize.

Harvard Business Review | June 25, 2021

### What Pandemic Parenting Can Teach Us About Leadership

Featuring Sanyin Siang

As millions prepare to return to office work, Sanyin Siang of Duke's Master of
Engineering Management Program and co-author Ron Carruci present four ways not
to let hard-earned leadership lessons from work-from-home parenting go to
waste.

FDIC Banking on Innovation | June 21, 2021

### Engineering Innovation in the Banking System

Featuring Jimmie Lentz

FDIC's Chief Innovation Officer Sultan Meghji sits down with Jimmie Lenz of
Duke University's Pratt School of Engineering to discuss how to build the
banking system of the future.

Lasker Foundation | June 17, 2021

### Exploring the Nervous System

Featuring Blake Wilson

This article spotlights the remarkable work done by a recent Lasker Laureate
from Duke in 2013 – Blake Wilson (BME) - for his work toward developing the
modern cochlear implant to help individuals with profound deafness as part of
a larger article on the breakthroughs in studies of the nervous system.

The Wall Street Journal | June 2, 2021

### Bill Gates Backs New Venture Fund Focused on Metamaterials

Featuring David Smith

Backed by Bill Gates, a new venture fund has launched to invest in startups
commercializing metamaterials, a field of research pioneered by ECE Professor
David Smith.

Gizmodo | May 28, 2021

### Smartwatches Can Predict Your Blood Test Results, Study Finds

Featuring Jessilyn Dunn

BME Professor Jessilyn Dunn finds that wearable data on heart rate, body
temperature and daily activity can be used to flag early signs of some
conditions, as well as predict the results of clinical blood tests.

Autism Science Foundation | May 28, 2021

### Eye Gaze and Real-Life Early Detection Tools: An Interview With
Researchers From Duke

Featuring George Chang

ECE Postdoctoral Research George Chang joins Geri Dawson, director of the Duke
Institute for Brain Sciences, to talk about the progress of an app that tracks
a baby's gaze to spot early signs of autism.

BBC Sounds | May 26, 2021

### Why Time Flies (and How to Slow It Down)

Featuring Adrian Bejan

Armando Iannucci explores why time appears to speed up alarmingly as we age
with MEMS Professor Adrian Bejan.

Newsweek | May 25, 2021

### Scientists Invent Smart Toilet That Sends Poop Data to Your Doctor

Featuring Sonia Grego

ECE Associate Research Professor Sonia Grego is working with Associate
Professor of Medicine Deborah Fisher to develop a "smart toilet" that can use
stool photos and AI to diagnose disease.

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * …
  * 10
  * 11
  * 12
  * 13
  * 14
  * 15
  * 16
  * 17
  * 18
  * …
  * next ›
  * last »

## News from Duke Engineering

March 29, 2023 | The News & Observer

### That Selfie You Posted on Instagram? Companies Are Using it in Unethical
Ways

March 28, 2023 | Duke Institute for Brain Sciences

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

View all news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

