

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Media Coverage

Check out the latest media coverage of Duke engineering research and
education.

Interesting Engineering | July 13, 2020

### Scientists Create First Cartilage Gel Strong Enough For Knees

Featuring Ken Gall

MEMS Professor Ken Gall and Chemistry/MEMS Professor Benjamin Wiley
demonstrate an artificial material that is durable and able to withstand heavy
loads as well as human cartilage.

SPIE | July 7, 2020

### Engineers Search for a Tiny Cure for a Big Problem

Featuring Jennifer West

In an article exploring the wide breadth of research searching to treat cancer
with nanoparticles, technology created by Jennifer West that uses gold
nanoparticles and infrared light is highlighted.

Associated Press | July 1, 2020

### NFL Awards 4 Projects in Helmet Safety Development Program

Featuring Barry Myers

Four organizations have been awarded a total of $1.37 million by the NFL to
support the creation of their helmet prototypes through the NFL Helmet
Challenge, independent Oversight Committee is chaired by BME Professor Barry
Myers.

IEEE Spectrum | June 29, 2020

### Making Blurry Faces Photorealistic Goes Only So Far

Featuring Cynthia Rudin

ECE Professor Cynthia Rudin discovers inherent resolution limits to the
'upsampling' of pixelated faces

IEEE Spectrum | June 26, 2020

### Future Baggage Scanners Will Tell Us What Things Are Made Of

Featuring Joel Greenberg, Michael Gehm

ECE Professors Joel Greenberg and Michael Gehm talk about the x-ray
diffraction baggage scanning technology they are developing.

ABC 11 | June 23, 2020

### Duke Research Study that Tracks COVID-19 Via Smartphones, Smartwatches
Goes Global

Featuring Jessilyn Dunn

Interesting Engineering | June 22, 2020

### Duke University Engineers Build the World's Fastest Electric Monowheel

Featuring Anuj Thakkar

A team of graduating engineering seniors has spent the last 15 months building
and testing the world's fastest electric monowheel.

Science News | June 22, 2020

### To Live up to the Hype, Quantum Computers Must Repair Their Error Problems

Featuring Ken Brown

ECE Professor Ken Brown says that trying to stop quantum computers from
gathering errors is like "fighting erosion."

The Washington Post | June 18, 2020

### We Need Smart Solutions to Mitigate the Coronavirus’s Impact. Here Are 46.

Featuring Cynthia Rudin

ECE Professor Cynthia Rudin argues that, in the wake of two high-profile paper
retractions because of issues with the studies' raw data, we must make non-
identifiable patient data freely accessible.

Oak Ridge National Laboratory | June 5, 2020

### ORNL Spectrometry Research Advances Race Toward Safer Rechargeable
Batteries

Featuring Olivier Delaire

MEMS Professor Olivier Delaire helps shed new light on the atomic dynamics of
how silver chromium selenide, part of a class of materials known as superionic
conductors, continues to conduct heat even at temperatures that partially
dissolve the interior crystal structure while the outer structure remains
intact.

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * …
  * 16
  * 17
  * 18
  * 19
  * 20
  * 21
  * 22
  * 23
  * 24
  * next ›
  * last »

## News from Duke Engineering

March 29, 2023 | The News & Observer

### That Selfie You Posted on Instagram? Companies Are Using it in Unethical
Ways

March 28, 2023 | Duke Institute for Brain Sciences

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

View all news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

