

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Media Coverage

Check out the latest media coverage of Duke engineering research and
education.

New Atlas | January 19, 2022

### Eco-Friendly Plastics Made From Sugars Boast “Unprecedented” Properties

Featuring Matthew Becker

MEMS Professor Matthew Becker and colleagues have found a way to use organic
compounds derived from sugar to make a new family of eco-friendly polymers.

The Washington Post | January 17, 2022

### Former Google Scientist Says the Computers That Run Our Lives Exploit Us —
And He Has a Way to Stop Them

Featuring Cynthia Rudin

ECE/CS Professor Cynthia Rudin is mentioned in an article detailing how
several entrepreneurs and companies are working to make AI more ethical and
just.

Science News for Students | January 17, 2022

### This Crumb-Sized Camera Uses Artificial Intelligence to Get Big Results

Featuring Natalia Litchinitser

ECE Professor Natalia Litchinitser explains what a metasurface is and how it
is helping to make tiny cameras the size of a crumb.

Nature Physics | January 10, 2022

### Forbidden by Symmetry

Featuring Iman Marvian

A News & Views column in Nature Physics explains how new research from ECE
Professor Iman Marvian shows that quantum systems whose interactions are
constrained by symmetries can't be broken down as a simple summation of the
local operations among its components.

The News & Observer | January 10, 2022

### As a Carbon-Free Future Nears, Duke Energy and Dominion Explore Hydrogen’s
Potential

Featuring Nico Hotz

MEMS Professor Nico Hotz offers insights into how hydrogen might become a part
of the green energy needs of the future.

SYFY | December 19, 2021

### Keep Cool With Real Stillsuits Made of Nylon and Silver, No Electronics
Needed

Featuring Po-Chun Hsu

MEMS Professor Po-Chun Hsu produced prototype patches with miniature vented
flaps. When applied to your clothing, the vents curl open to release heat if
you get too hot and start producing sweat.

Unite.AI | December 15, 2021

### Algorithm Predicts Processor Power Consumption Incredibly Fast

Featuring Yiran Chen

ECE Professor Yiran Chen has developed a new artificial intelligence (AI)
method that can accurately predict the power consumption of any type of
computer processor.

ACM ByteCast | December 7, 2021

### Amanda Randles - Episode 22

Featuring Amanda Randles

BME Professor Amanda Randles talks about her passion, which lies in using the
largest supercomputers in the world to answer questions otherwise left
unanswered, and her Duke research group’s focus on building large scale
personalized blood flow simulations.

The Independent | December 6, 2021

### Rapid Test ‘Identifies Antibody Effectiveness Against COVID Variants’

Featuring Ashutosh Chilkoti

BME Professor Ashutosh Chilkoti develops a test that could potentially tell
doctors how protected a patient is from new variants of COVID-19 and those
currently circulating in a community

The News and Observer | December 3, 2021

### Matt Kane Steered His Last Biotech to an IPO. He’s Back With a New Startup
and $40m

Featuring Charles Gersbach

Biomedical startup veterens Matt Kane and Charles Gersbach have launched a new
venture called Tune Therapeutics, which will focus on “epigenetics” and
attempt to create new therapies for cancers and genetic diseases.

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * …
  * 6
  * 7
  * 8
  * 9
  * 10
  * 11
  * 12
  * 13
  * 14
  * …
  * next ›
  * last »

## News from Duke Engineering

March 29, 2023 | The News & Observer

### That Selfie You Posted on Instagram? Companies Are Using it in Unethical
Ways

March 28, 2023 | Duke Institute for Brain Sciences

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

View all news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

