

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Media Coverage

Check out the latest media coverage of Duke engineering research and
education.

Forbes | October 5, 2022

### Massive Digital Library Released To Accelerate Clinical Research And Cut
Costs

Featuring Jessilyn Dunn

BME Professor Jessilyn Dunn comments on a health technology startup called
HumanFirst that is changing the way clinical trials are run by putting people
at the center of drug development.

The News & Observer | October 5, 2022

### In Race Toward Quantum Computing, North Carolina Takes Center Stage

Featuring Chris Monroe

The Duke Quantum Center is helping to put the Triangle on the national quantum
computing map.

Fortune | September 23, 2022

### How to Land a Cybersecurity Internship—and Why You Need to Start Looking
Now

Featuring Jimmie Lenz

Jimmie Lenz helps explain how summer internships often turn into job offers
from those businesses and organizations once students complete grad school.

Popular Mechanics | September 14, 2022

### Want to Build the Perfect Bonfire? All You Need Is a Little Bit of Math

Featuring Adrian Bejan

MEMS Professor Adrian Bejan has some advice on how to mathematically build the
perfect bonfire.

WRAL | September 10, 2022

### Duke team gets global attention for rainforest drone project

Featuring Martin Brooke

US Department of Energy | September 9, 2022

### Uncovering the Atomic Mechanism Underpinning Heat Transport in
Thermoelectric Materials

Featuring Olivier Delaire

MEMS Professor Olivier Delaire is using neutrons to reveal remarkable atomic
behavior in thermoelectric materials for more efficient conversion of heat
into electricity.

WHQR | September 9, 2022

### New Company Looks to Destroy PFAS With Green Chemistry

Featuring Marc Deshusses

CEE Professor Marc Deshusses's startup company 374Water aims to use a tried
and tested method to destroy PFAS and other contaminants at commercially
viable volumes, using supercritical water.

Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation | September 8, 2022

### Duke University Interns Share Their DTCC Experience

Through an exciting partnership with Duke University that promotes science,
technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM), DTCC recently hosted 21
summer interns from Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering. Two of the students,
Kunyu Liu and Weichong Zhang, share their experience.

Forbes | September 7, 2022

### Top 2023 IEEE Biomedical Engineering Awardee Professor Nimmi Ramanujam
Shares Deep Insights

Featuring Nimmi Ramanujam

BME Professor Nimmi Ramanujam, the recipient of the highest award for
outstanding contributions to biomedical engineering, shares her thoughts on
the field and her research.

WRAL | August 29, 2022

### Contaminants from Flooding in NC Hurricanes a Risk to Environment

Featuring Lee Ferguson

## Pages

  * « first
  * ‹ previous
  * 1
  * 2
  * 3
  * 4
  * 5
  * 6
  * 7
  * 8
  * 9
  * …
  * next ›
  * last »

## News from Duke Engineering

March 29, 2023 | The News & Observer

### That Selfie You Posted on Instagram? Companies Are Using it in Unethical
Ways

March 28, 2023 | Duke Institute for Brain Sciences

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

View all news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

