

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Innovative 24-Hour Executive Challenge Puts MEM Students to the Test

November 30, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

Students from Duke Master of Engineering Management program work fast and
furiously on a plan to get a global corporation to carbon neutrality by 2035

After two years of piloting the simulation and another year of intensive
development, the challenge was ready to debut. Space had been reserved for 25
students to spend 24 hours putting their management training to the test. Food
had been ordered to fuel the five teams as they wove together their individual
talents to tackle whatever obstacles came their way. Industry executives had
set aside their time to judge the final presentations.

The date for the inaugural Duke Engineering Master of Engineering Management
(MEM) Executive Challenge was set for March 13-15, 2020.

“I remember distinctly around March 8 or 9 thinking that we might want to
consider not going through with it, and Dean Bellamkonda was smart enough to
make the call early,” said Edward Marshall, Adjunct Professor of Management in
the MEM program and of business administration in Duke’s Fuqua School of
Business. “It took a month or two for us to gather back our energy, take a
deep breath, and start to put together plans to make the event virtual. But
it’s a good thing we did.”

The idea behind the MEM Executive Challenge is to provide students a capstone
opportunity to put everything they’ve learned throughout their various classes
to solve a real-world business challenge. Not unlike a hackathon, students
form cross-national, cross-gender teams of five, each contributing unique
skills gained from the courses they’ve chosen to take and their previous
backgrounds. Before the Challenge weekend even begins, they form themselves as
a collaborative team, deciding the rules for how they will work together.

After receiving a thick packet of information detailing a fictional business’s
history, assets, financials, values, goals and more, teams have roughly 18
hours to put together a 20-minute, comprehensive presentation outlining their
plans and rationales for how the company would move forward in the next 15
years.

> “This sort of challenge is unheard of in any MEM program around the country.
> We’re really the pioneers of this, and the students were really excited by
> the prospect.” - Edward Marshall

“This sort of challenge is unheard of in any MEM program around the country,”
said Marshall. “We’re really the pioneers of this, and the students were
really excited by the prospect.”

Fast-forward a few months and the MEM faculty team, Professors Daniel Egger,
Gregory Hopper, Luis Morales, Steven DelGrosso, Guerry Grune, and Marshall,
were ready to take their 24-hour program virtual. Two teams were challenged to
prepare a solution for making a global, high-tech company called GlobalCorp,
Inc (GCI) carbon neutral by the year 2035 while simultaneously cutting 10
percent of its expenditures.

But the financials were just the beginning of the hurdles.

“We had to put together a comprehensive strategy that included critical
leadership, finance, marketing issues and more,” said Carly Davey, a member of
the team, “The 5 Forces” and recent graduate of the University of Miami. “This
required a very high-level overview of balancing different tradeoffs between
profitability and thinking green in the long term. Then we had to present
something compelling that made sense from all angles.”

“My team had three students with startup experience, which helped a lot with
strategy and long-term decisions on how to make the company sustainable over
time,” said Swati Jain, a member of team “John Wick’s Apprentices,” who spent
three years building her own company in India before joining the MEM program.
“One student knew a lot about energy, another had a biomedical background, a
third had a lot of financial experience, and we also had someone with lots of
project management experience, which helped us figure out what questions
definitely needed to be answered by the end.”

Davey was joined on her team by Joanne Xiao, Sandhya Kal, Revati Deshpande,
Wei He and Xuechao Wang, while Jain’s team included Katie Wu, Ravi Gudipally,
Prerena Prahlad and Tushnik Goswami.

The marathon event kicked off around 6:00 pm on a Friday night in November,
after which the students had about 18 hours to finish their work and present
to the judges. Not only were their efforts hampered by not being able to be in
the same room, but also a few of the participants were on the other side of
the world in completely different time zones.

Some teammates were married, others had roommates to contend with. Almost
everyone received some form of help, whether a meal delivered to their desktop
or simply patience with their working at odd hours of the night.

> “At the beginning, I was somewhat hesitant, because it was my whole weekend
> and wasn’t for a grade or anything. But it was a lot more rewarding than I’d
> imagined. I learned a ton and it will be a great thing to put on my resume.”
> - Carly Davey

In short, the experience was just about as real-life as you can get during
COVID.

Both teams submitted their final presentations Saturday night, November 7, at
9:00, and reconvened on Sunday to hear the judges’ decisions. Deliberating
over the event were three external and extraordinary judges from Duke
Engineering’s Industrial Advisory Board, Tony Jeffs of Cisco, Charelle Lewis
of GSK, and Marty Trivette of ABB. At the end of the whirlwind experience,
Team 5 Force edged out John Wick’s Assassins by a nose.

But by all accounts, everyone stayed home a winner.

“It was very well organized. The case was well written and allowed the
participants to focus on the main topics and not get bogged down in financials
and miscellaneous data,” said Marty Trivette, global digital and systems
director at ABB and one of the challenge’s judges. “I am glad the faculty team
pulled this off in the pandemic environment because this is part of the great
Duke experience.”

“At the beginning, I was somewhat hesitant, because it was my whole weekend
and wasn’t for a grade or anything,” said Davey. “But it was a lot more
rewarding than I’d imagined. I learned a ton and it will be a great thing to
put on my resume.”

“This event was one of the most valuable things I’ve participated in this
semester,” said Katie Wu, a member of John Wick’s Apprentices. “I had an
opportunity to work on a superb team on a difficult and complex challenge, and
present to faculty and the Industrial Advisory Board judges in a real-world
simulation. I’ve taken many lessons from both of the teams’ presentations, and
I know that these skills and lessons will help me succeed in future endeavors.

## Related News

October 22, 2019

### A Decade of Building Careers and Connections

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

