

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# A Message from Dean Bellamkonda on #ShutDownSTEM

June 9, 2020

A call for reflection on structural racism in academia and society

Dear Pratt community,

In the wake of the tragic murder of George Floyd and worldwide protests
against systemic racism and police violence over the past two weeks, I know
many of us care deeply about making sure that this pivotal moment for deeply
needed change and racial healing is not lost.

Tomorrow, June 10, a national grassroots movement called #ShutDownSTEM has
urged all of us in STEM academic communities to take time to learn, reflect
and think deliberately about how we can take action in our own communities—our
labs, our teams, our units and departments, our school, our university and
beyond—to “transition to a lifelong commitment of actions to eradicate anti-
Black racism in academia and STEM.”

The Pratt School of Engineering enthusiastically supports this effort. In many
conversations with our department chairs and others this week, we agreed that
as educators and engineers, we have a responsibility to educate ourselves more
deeply about structural racism in our society and in our field, and look for
actions we can take to become part of the solution and truly be an ‘anti-
racist,’ in the words of Ibram X. Kendi.

Although this initiative launched quickly, and we understand many of you may
have existing commitments, **I hope you will consider spending significant
time tomorrow to reflect deeply in a personal way by adjusting your calendars
and schedules to enable such important reflection as a first step towards
action.** I also encourage our faculty and managers to support their team
members as we join with colleagues across the nation tomorrow to learn, listen
and consider what steps we can take, both individually and together, to be
'anti-racist' in our thoughts, choices, actions and policies.

Many groups have provided helpful educational resources to read and reflect
on:

  * ShutDownSTEM Resources guide
  * Duke’s Office of Institutional Equity posted a list of resources from both
    Duke and from across the country that explore historical, economic, legal
    and social issues of racism and other biases
  * Duke’s National Society of Black Engineers student chapter has created a
    resource page for our community
  * Duke’s Sanford School of Public Policy has curated resources for
    discussions about race and bias
  * The AAAS.org homepage will include an invitation for suggestions and
    comments from the STEM community tomorrow

If you have other resources to recommend, please email
prattdeansoffice@duke.edu.

Later this month, I will invite our community to a follow-on gathering online
so that we can further our discussion of how we as a school can make changes
that truly change our world in a meaningful way.

So, this is certainly not the only initiative we or others at Duke will take –
we have a lot of work to do. As we continue the work toward racial justice and
healing, tomorrow is an opportune moment to reflect on how we as scholars and
engineers can do our part, and I hope many of you will join me in doing so.

Ravi V. Bellamonda  
Vinik Dean of Engineering

_*As organizers have noted, #ShutDownSTEM is aimed at the broad research
community that is not directly working on efforts to fight the COVID-19
pandemic, which continues to spread worldwide. We add our thanks as a school
to all those in our community and beyond engaged in this important effort._

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

