

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Ricocheting Radio Waves Monitor the Tiniest Movements in a Room

August 6, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

Radio waves reveal person’s presence in a room, even beyond the sensor’s line
of sight

Relief may be on the horizon for anyone who has ever jumped around a room like
a jack-in-the-box to get motion-sensing lights to turn back on. A new motion
sensor based on metamaterials is sensitive enough to monitor a person’s
breathing.

In a pair of new studies, researchers from Duke University and Institut
Langevin, France, have shown that patterns made by radio waves can detect a
person’s presence and location anywhere inside a room.

The findings appeared recently in Scientific Reports and Aug. 6 in the Physics
Review Letters.

This new motion-sensing technology could lead to new smart home devices for
energy savings, security, healthcare and gaming.

“Energy companies don’t love infrared motion detectors because they have lots
of problems,” said David R. Smith, the James B. Duke Professor of Electrical
and Computer Engineering at Duke. “The amount of space they can cover is
limited, a person has to be within their line of sight to be detected, and
probably everyone has had the experience where the lights have gone off
because they’ve sat still for too long. Radio waves can get around all of
these limitations.”

In their initial paper published earlier this year, the researchers took
advantage of patterns created by radio waves bouncing around a room and
interfering with themselves. These unique patterns change with the slightest
perturbation of the room’s objects, allowing a sensitive antenna to detect
when something moves in or enters the room. And by comparing how these
patterns change over time, they can also be used to detect cyclical movements
like a fan blade turning—or even a person breathing.

In the latest paper, the team shows that with a bit of training, the system
can also extract information necessary to locate objects or people in a space.
The demonstration system was taught the pattern of radio waves scattered by a
triangular block placed in 23 different positions on a floor. That calibration
is enough not only to distinguish between the learned 23 scenarios, but to
also distinguish the positions of three identical blocks placed in any one of
1,771 possible configurations.

The technology works by taking advantage of the way radio waves behave in an
enclosed room. Their ability to continuously reflect off multiple surfaces
creates complex interference patterns throughout a room. In the past, this
complexity has been an obstacle for systems trying to locate the origin of a
signal. But Smith and his colleagues have now shown that this same complexity
can be tapped to detect movement and locate objects within a room.

“The complexity of the way radio waves bounce around a room and interfere with
themselves creates a sort of fingerprint,” explained Philipp del Hougne, a
researcher visiting Smith’s laboratory from Institut Langevin in Paris,
France. “And each time an object within a room moves, even a little bit, that
fingerprint changes.”

The challenge lies with finding the most efficient way to ink that fingerprint
in the first place. It requires a lot of information, del Hougne explained,
and there are multiple traditional ways it can be done, but they all have
drawbacks.

A large number of antennas could be installed in many places around a room to
take multiple measurements, but this would be costly and inconvenient. Another
tactic would be to measure many different frequencies, as each bounces around
a room in a unique way. This approach, however, would likely create
interference with other radio wave signals like Wi-Fi and Bluetooth operating
within a room.

The researchers’ solution is to dynamically control the shape of the waves
using metamaterials—artificial materials that manipulate waves like light and
sound through properties of their structure. A flat-panel metamaterial antenna
can shape waves into arbitrary configurations and create many different wave
fronts in rapid succession.

“It doesn’t even matter what those particular wave shapes are,” said Smith.
“As long as they’re diverse, the detector will pick up enough different
patterns to determine if something is there and where it is.”

“There are other technologies that could achieve similar wave front shaping
capabilities, but they are much more expensive both in cost and energy usage,”
said Mohammadreza Imani, a postdoctoral fellow in Smith’s lab who also worked
on the papers. “Studies have shown that the ability to adjust a room’s
temperature when people leave and come back can reduce power consumption by
around 30 percent. But if you’re trying to save energy by spending more energy
changing the antenna pattern, then you’re not helping.”

And energy savings may be just the tip of the iceberg. The ability to count
the number of people in a room, distinguish body positions and monitor
breathing patterns also has potential applications in security, healthcare and
gaming.

The French scientists on the project have created a related startup company
called Greenerwave.

“While we’re definitely still continuing with the energy angle, we’ll also see
where the research takes us,” Smith said.

This work was supported by the Air Force Office of Scientific Research
(FA9550-12-1-0491).

CITATIONS: “Dynamic Metasurface Aperture as Smart Around-the-Corner Motion
Detector,” Philipp del Hougne, Mohammadreza F. Imani, Timothy Sleasman, Jonah
N. Gollub, Mathias Fink, Geoffroy Lerosey, and David R. Smith. Scientific
Reports, 2018. DOI: 10.1038/s41598-018-24681-9

“Precise localization of multiple noncooperative objects in a disordered
cavity by wave front shaping.” Philipp del Hougne, Mohammadreza F. Imani,
Mathias Fink, David R. Smith, and Geoffroy Lerosey. Phys. Rev. Lett., 2018.
DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.121.063901  
LINK: journals.aps.org/prl/accepted/b307fY31A5a13c5579fc4252303f8b2e5e024fc00

# # #

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

