

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Michael Rubinstein: A Collaborative Approach to Soft-Matter Engineering and
Science

September 21, 2017

New faculty member Michael Rubinstein creates polymeric models to bridge
scientific disciplines and advance soft-matter research.

Michael Rubinstein will join the faculty of Duke University’s Department of
Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science (MEMS) beginning January 1, 2018,
with joint appointments in the Departments of Biomedical Engineering,
Chemistry and Physics. An internationally recognized expert in the fields of
polymer theory and computer simulations, Rubinstein will contribute to the
growing interdisciplinary focus on collaborative polymer and soft-matter
research across Duke.

Rubinstein, who moves to Duke from the University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill, studies various properties of polymeric systems—a type of soft matter
composed of long chains of repeating units. Such polymers surround us in our
day-to-day life, making up everything from DNA and proteins to plastics and
rubber.

The types of repeating units that make up the polymers and the way these
molecular chains coil up determine what properties the polymer will have,
making a material strong like silk or bouncy like rubber. Rubinstein aims to
understand and model these various properties so researchers can design new
materials that exhibit more interesting and useful features based on what
functions the material needs to perform.

> “In my new role here, my goal is to form a soft matter center that will
> connect Pratt, Trinity and the Duke University School of Medicine, and bring
> people with different backgrounds together to find solutions to complex
> problems."

To address these questions, Rubinstein divides his work into three parts:
developing analytical models to describe soft matter and polymeric systems,
performing computer simulations, and conducting experiments. “The most
interesting part of my work involves discussing experiments and computer
simulations with my collaborators and comparing their results with theoretical
predictions, thus building bridges between analytical models, simulations, and
experiments.” Rubinstein said.

Throughout his career, Rubinstein has used his experience with polymers and
soft matter to begin new partnerships and advance unique collaborations, both
with faculty at his own university and with research groups around the globe.

One such collaboration includes physicians at UNC-Chapel Hill who are studying
cystic fibrosis. A physics graduate of Caltech and Harvard who worked in
theoretical polymer research at AT&T Bell Labs and Kodak Research Laboratories
before joining UNC’s Chemistry Department, Rubinstein had no previous
experience in biology nor a background in medicine. But after discussing how
he could use his knowledge to help the physicians solve their problem,
Rubinstein created a biopolymer model to explain why the buildup of mucus
caused by cystic fibrosis isn’t cleared from the lungs. He also built an
experimental lab in the medical school to test the predictions of his model.
Using this model, researchers gained a better understanding of how the disease
progresses in patients.

“The field of polymers and soft matter is a very broad, but an interconnected
field of science because you can take ideas from how tires are made or how a
certain aspect of biology works and apply those principles to different
areas,” said Rubinstein. “It has made my work extremely interesting.”

Now, as he begins a new chapter at Duke, Rubinstein––who has also been named a
MEDx investigator in recognition of his work spanning engineering and
medicine–– hopes to continue to use his research and multiple appointments to
advance collaborative efforts with faculty throughout the university.

To continue to grow his collaborative efforts, Rubinstein is planning to begin
a series of new projects at Duke, including several education initiatives to
provide further education to students studying soft matter and polymeric
systems. Rubinstein hopes to revise the main textbook used to teach polymer
physics—which he wrote—to include other areas of soft matter. He also hopes to
help recruit new faculty and invite speakers who are experts in soft matter,
ensuring that students have ample opportunity to learn from the leaders in the
field.

“One of the things I really like about Duke is that there is a very nice mix
between the engineering school and the groups in the Trinity School of Arts
and Sciences,” he said. “In my new role here, my goal is to form a soft matter
center that will connect Pratt, Trinity and the Duke University School of
Medicine, and bring people with different backgrounds together to find
solutions to complex problems."

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

