

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Microlaser Chip Adds New Dimensions to Quantum Communication

November 29, 2022 | By Devorah Fischler

Duke engineers help a team led by Penn double the quantum information space of
any previous on-chip laser

_Adapted from apress release from UPenn_

Researchers at Penn Engineering have created a chip that outstrips the
security and robustness of existing quantum communications hardware. Their
technology communicates in “qudits,” doubling the quantum information space of
any previous on-chip laser.

Liang Feng, Professor in the Departments of Materials Science and Engineering
(MSE) and Electrical Systems and Engineering (ESE), along with MSE
postdoctoral fellow Zhifeng Zhang and ESE Ph.D. student Haoqi Zhao, debuted
the technology in a recent study published in _Nature_ _._ The group was
partly inspired through a collaboration with Natalia Litchinitser, professor
of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Duke University, who helped develop
the original concept of using spin-orbit coupling to generate and manipulate
states of light with increased degrees of freedom.

The collaboration also involved scientists from the Polytechnic University of
Milan, the Institute for Cross-Disciplinary Physics and Complex Systems, and
the City University of New York (CUNY).

While non-quantum chips store, transmit and compute data using bits, state-of-
the-art quantum devices use qubits. Bits can be 1s or 0s, while qubits are
units of digital information capable of being both 1 and 0 at the same time.
In quantum mechanics, this state of simultaneity is called “superposition,”
and makes it physically impossible for hackers to steal information.

Qubits, however, aren’t perfect. With only two levels of superposition, qubits
have limited storage space and low tolerance for interference. To get around
these limitations, researchers are working toward quantum bits that can have a
state of superposition greater than two levels, which they call a qu _dit_.

The Feng Lab device’s four-level qudits enable significant advances in quantum
cryptography, raising the maximum secrete key rate for information exchange
from 1 bit per pulse to 2 bits per pulse. The device offers four levels of
superposition and opens the door to further increases in dimension.

“This demonstration of a microlaser generating reconfigurable high-
superposition states is likely to advance high-capacity optical communication
technologies,” said Litchinitser, who also helped interpret the results of the
experiments.

Quantum communication uses photons in tightly controlled states of
superposition. Properties such as location, momentum, polarization and spin
exist as multiplicities at the quantum level, each of which is governed by
probabilities. These probabilities describe the likelihood of a quantum
system—an atom, a particle, a wave—taking on a single attribute when measured.

The hyperdimensional spin-orbit microlaser builds on the team’s earlier work
with vortex microlasers, which sensitively tune the orbital angular momentum
(OAM) of photons. The most recent device upgrades the capabilities of the
previous laser by adding another level of command over photonic spin.

This additional level of control—being able to manipulate and couple OAM and
spin—is the breakthrough that allowed them to achieve a four-level system. The
difficulty of controlling all these parameters at once is what had been
hindering qudit generation in integrated photonics and represents the major
experimental accomplishment of the team’s work.

“Think of the quantum states of our photon as two planets stacked on top of
each other,” says Zhao. “Before, we only had information about these planets’
latitude. With that, we could create a maximum of two levels of superposition.
We didn’t have enough information to stack them into four. Now, we have
longitude as well. This is the information we need to manipulate photons in a
coupled way and achieve dimensional increase. We are coordinating each
planet’s rotation and spin and holding the two planets in strategic relation
to each other.”

“There is a lot of concern,” says Feng, “that mathematical encryption, no
matter how complex, will become less and less effective because we are
advancing so quickly in computing technologies. Quantum communication’s
reliance on physical rather than mathematical barriers make it immune to these
future threats. It’s more important than ever that we continue to develop and
refine quantum communication technologies.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

