

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Mikkelsen, Pajic Receive Naval Young Investigator Program Awards

March 8, 2017

Duke ECE's Maikken Mikkelsen and Miroslav Pajic were honored as early-career
researchers who show "exceptional promise for doing creative research.”

Maiken Mikkelsen, the Nortel Networks Assistant Professor of Electrical and
Computer Engineering and assistant professor of physics at Duke University,
and Miroslav Pajic, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering
at Duke University, have each won an Office of Naval Research Young
Investigator Program award. The program provides support to early-career
researchers who “show exceptional promise for doing creative research.”

Mikkelsen’s award will provide $510,000 over the next three years to perform
nanofabrication and optical experiments to investigate nanoparticle-based
perfect absorber coatings. These coatings currently rely on a layer of silver
nanocubes precisely separated from a thin film of gold by a few nanometer-
thick polymer. When light strikes this “metasurface,” a specific wavelength—or
color—gets trapped on the surface of the nanocubes in packets of energy called
plasmons, eventually dissipating into heat.

Previous work has shown that this technique is capable of near-perfect
absorption, works at wide angles and can be tuned to absorb different
wavelengths of light from the visible spectrum to the near infrared. Making
the technology even more promising for applications such as thermal imaging or
masking the heat signatures of objects, Mikkelsen’s self-assembly-based
fabrication technique vastly reduces cost and manufacturing issues.

The new grant will support the continued development of the technology by
utilizing environmentally robust materials suitable for naval applications and
integrating active materials that can tune and adapt the coating’s properties
through external stimuli such as heat, light or electric field. The award
completes a Department of Defense hat trick for Mikkelsen, who has also
received young investigator awards in the past year from the Air Force Office
of Scientific Research and the Army Research Office.

Pajic’s award will also provide $510,000 over three years to focus on
protecting modern vessels, devices, autonomous drones and other naval cyber-
physical systems (CPS) from cyber and physical attacks. These systems employ
complex networked architectures with a large number of embedded computers
interacting with physical world in real-time. This increasing set of
functionalities, network interoperability and system design complexity,
however, may also introduce security vulnerabilities.

For example, several recent incidents, such as the capturing of the RQ-170
Sentinel U.S. drone in Iran, clearly illustrate the susceptibility of naval
CPS to attacks well beyond the standard cyber-attacks. Physical attacks on
sensors, such as GPS-spoofing, can have similar devastating effect on system
operation.

Pajic’s research seeks to address these by creating a high-assurance design
framework for Naval CPS. He and his team plan to exploit physical phenomena
present in any interaction between cyber and physical worlds to derive
resilient cyber-physical components with strong formal performance and
resiliency guarantees. They will also produce a set of design methods and
tools to ensure that no security vulnerabilities are introduced during
implementation of these security-aware systems.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

