

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke CEE's Mark Wiesner: Modeling a ‘River of Plastic’

December 8, 2022

Plastic particles are everywhere in our environment. Wiesner explains in this
Q&A why we must better understand the implications

James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering
Mark Wiesner led the NSF-funded Center for Environmental Implications of
Nanotechnology, or CEINT. The center created a community of researchers from
across the United States and internationally to investigate the transport and
fate of nanomaterials in the environment.

Now, Wiesner has turned his attention to plastics which can form so-called
“incidental” nanoparticles as products break down in the environment. The
European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC) will fund Wiesner’s initial effort
to model how polymers of all stripes escape into the environment and how they
break down there.

Working with colleagues in the United Kingdom’s Center for Ecology and
Hydrology, and Switzerland’s Federal Laboratories for Materials Science and
Technology (EMPA), this team will interface with ongoing efforts funded by
CEFIC at Duke and internationally on the plastic fragmentation and the release
of chemical additives from plastics.

He explains the significance of the newest project directed and quantifying
sources of plastics and its expected outcomes in this Q&A:

What are you trying to discover about the flow of plastic into the
environment?

If you look at what’s floating around in the big gyres like the Pacific
Garbage Patch, that plastic material accounts for somewhere around 30% of what
we know is being thrown away. So the question is, where is the rest going? One
hypothesis is that much of the unaccounted-for material is making its way
beneath the surface in the form of micro- and nanoplastics.

> "If you look at what’s floating around in the big gyres like the Pacific
> Garbage Patch, that plastic material accounts for somewhere around 30
> percent of what we know is being thrown away. So the question is, where is
> the rest going? "
>
> **Mark Wiesner** | Duke Professor of Civil & Environmental Engineering  
>

Animals don’t become entangled in microplastics or choke on nanoplastics. Why
should we worry about these tiny particles?

Most of us have plastics in our bloodstream now, and there are plastics in
much of the food that we eat. The health consequences of that exposure are not
well understood.

We know from our extensive work with nanomaterials that response curves change
when the particles break down to nanoscale. The particles can get to places
where they couldn’t get to otherwise, and they can deliver their cargo to
tissues, but we don’t understand the health implications of that yet.

Plastic products are vehicles that move around contaminants that we know are
toxic, though, including additives like plasticizers. These plastic products
are getting out in the environment where they may be taken up by organisms,
creating potentially unique exposures to some of these chemical contaminants.

How are people exposed to the chemical contaminants in plastics, exactly?

Take wastewater treatment sludge: it may contain residual plastic in
significant quantities. Municipalities often take the sludge and distribute it
on fields. That’s good in one sense because the sludge is a fertilizer, but
this is one way that plastics can make their way in soils.

Another way is from plastics used in agriculture. You’ll often see
agricultural fields are covered by “foils,” which are plastic sheets installed
to prevent the growth of weeds. This is good, in that it reduces herbicide
application. But again, you end up with some of that plastic being worked into
the soil. How do worms and bacteria and plants interact with all these
particles and associated chemicals? These are issues that are not well
understood.

Since you’ve begun working on these projects, have you been surprised by
anything you’ve found?

Some of the sources we have initially identified are surprising in the sense
that you might not think of them as sources of plastics. For example, tire
wear is a huge source of what we would consider to be microplastics, which end
up in urban sediments. Clothing is another one. There are all these synthetic
fibers that are shed when you wash your clothes. They make their way into
surface waters or sludges via wastewater that end up in the landfill or
applied to fields.

What is the model going to look like, and how will other researchers be able
to use it?

The model begins with estimates of the total materials produced and then
tracks where different plastics go during their life cycle of use and
disposal. Graphically you can think of it like a river flowing in reverse. You
start out from a big river composed of all the plastics used across the full
range of professional, consumer and industrial scenarios. It branches out into
smaller and smaller “rivers” and subdivides as plastic metaphorically flows
into different use and disposal scenarios.

> "Modeling helps us understand how we use plastics and whether the risks are
> justified by the use."

Modeling helps us understand how we use plastics and whether the risks are
justified by the use. For example, plastics allow us to make lighter cars that
reduce fuel consumption and reduce the amount of CO2 we emit into the
atmosphere. Plastics allow us to grow more food— and we just reached the
population milestone of eight billion people living on the planet, so we need
more food. Medicine, food preservation, and so on ... the benefits are
considerable.

This model will help us all understand how we’re making things and where
they’re going. In this case, we’re enlarging a model that was done for
Switzerland and applying it to Europe. In looking at that change of scale I
think we’ll learn about how transportable some of these concepts are.

More News from Duke CEE

## Related News

February 05, 2019

### Wiesner Appointed to U.S. EPA Science Advisory Board

October 25, 2018

### Ten Years In, What Has CEINT Taught Us?

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

