

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Accounting for Variability in Vascular Models

October 11, 2019

Europe's top thesis in computational mechanics this year is creating patient-
specific models of arterial walls to advance basic knowledge and help medical
outcomes

Scientists at Duke University are working to accurately model the
uncertainties in the mechanical behavior of human arterial walls. By
supporting theoretical developments for tissue engineering, the research could
eventually underpin patient-specific simulations to help physicians develop
non-invasive techniques for early diagnosis and identify potential pitfalls
before performing medical procedures.

The work has garnered international attention, with Brian Staber, a former PhD
student of Johann Guilleminot, assistant professor of civil and environmental
engineering at Duke, winning two awards for his thesis on the topic. In April
2019, Staber first won the Thesis Award from the France-based Computational
Structural Mechanics Association. Five months later, Staber accepted the
European Community on Computational Methods in Applied Sciences (ECCOMAS) PhD
Award, given for the best thesis presented in Europe in the field.

“There is great variability in the artificial tissues we engineer as well as
within the human body,” said Guilleminot. “Engineered vascular vessels, for
instance, typically present significant variability due to complex development
conditions, and arterial walls are essentially biological, layered composite
materials that have different structural properties depending on, for example,
the gender, age or activity level of their owner.”

“We’re trying to create digital twins that accurately account for these
variabilities and efficiently predict how they will mitigate and propagate to
quantities of interest,” he added. “Understanding how these two parts will
interface to one another and work under extreme conditions within a vascular
construct represents a daunting challenge”.

The trick is to create computational models that can be used to explore
virtual scenarios in some optimal way.

“We’re combining mathematical models with advanced simulation techniques to
create a range of scenarios of how a graft is going to perform, based on that
variability,” said Guilleminot. “And we’re trying to do so by defining the
coefficients in the governing equations in a way that reflects physical
reality for groups of patients.”

The models developed in Guilleminot’s group are attempting to recreate how a
variety of mechanical properties at one point affect those same properties at
neighboring points—and on down the line throughout the entire structure. And
to make matters more complicated, those structures are curving, slightly bumpy
volumes that look like a kindergartener’s attempt at a clay sculpture.

The developed algorithms model the intricacies of these irregular shapes while
allowing users to adjust how much each point’s physical properties affects its
neighbors in each dimension independently. By tweaking the strength of these
dimensional correlations and the induced deformations’ effects, they can match
experimental measurements in some statistical sense.

“We’ve created a lot of flexibility in modeling very complex behaviors on very
complicated shapes,” said Guilleminot.

The researchers are currently in the process of seeing just how well their
models work. By comparing their models’ results with those obtained from
physical experiments, Guilleminot and his group at Duke hope to demonstrate
that their models and algorithms are accounting for all those complications
well enough to accurately predict the mechanical reliability of vascular
grafts.

This work is supported in part by the National Science Foundation
(CMMI-1726403).

"A random field model for anisotropic strain energy functions and its
application for uncertainty quantification in vascular mechanics." B. Staber,
J. Guilleminot. Comput. Methods Appl. Mech. Engrg. 333 (2018) 94–113. DOI:
10.1016/j.cma.2018.01.001

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

