

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Mordecais Invest in the Future of Health Care with New Professorship

April 5, 2018

The Alfred Winborne Mordecai and Victoria Stover Mordecai Assistant/Associate
Professor of Biomedical Sciences promises to make a difference in the lives of
people the world over

Duke was foundational for Al Mordecai, BSE'90, and his wife Tori, T'91. It's
where they met, spent late nights with friends pondering big questions about
life and world affairs, and gained a broad, expansive liberal arts education.
Their recent gift to Duke Engineering honors Duke's impact on their lives and
promises to make a difference in the lives of people the world over.

Al and Tori's gift to establish the Alfred Winborne Mordecai and Victoria
Stover Mordecai Assistant/Associate Professor of Biomedical Sciences was
matched 1:2 through Bass Connections, a philanthropic program targeted to the
recruitment of faculty leaders who can collaborate across traditional academic
boundaries to address major challenges facing society.

Both Mordecais have a keen interest in health and health policy. He has had a
career of more than two decades in investment management and says his first
assignment was as a health care analyst. She received a graduate degree in
health policy and administration in addition to her Duke degree. Over the
years the two have maintained close ties with the Pratt School of Engineering.
Both have been active in regional leadership activities in the Los Angeles
area and Al has been a valuable member of the Pratt Board of Visitors since
spring 2017.

"This just seemed like a perfect fit for us," says Al. "As we looked to the
future and what can make a big difference in people's lives, we both felt that
the profound impacts in health care will come from the use of new high-
performance computational tools to analyze big data."

Visionary philanthropists Anne and Robert Bass launched Bass Connections with
a $50 million gift in 2013. It provides $25 million in matching funds for
endowment and expendable gifts from $100,000 to $2 million for a wide range of
programs, including multi-disciplinary research projects, scholarships and
educational initiatives, faculty recruitment, and graduate and professional
student fellowships, all focused on a theme of information, society, and
culture.

Al Mordecai sees the new professorship as an investment in the kind of
education and research that will create the biomedical engineering leaders of
the future.

"I believe...a critical function of a Duke Engineering education is really
about learning to solve problems and to love learning," he says. "It's a skill
set that is important to solving a whole host of health problems in our
society, from heart disease to cancer. We think that's where this
professorship could have a meaningful benefit. We are very humbled and
grateful that we can contribute in this way."

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

