

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# More to Lightning Than Meets the Eye

January 23, 2015

There’s much more to a lightning bolt than meets the eye, and engineers at
Duke University have invented an improved way of tracking these hidden
phenomena.

There’s much more to a lightning bolt than meets the eye, and engineers at
Duke University have invented an improved way of tracking these hidden
phenomena.

When a bolt of lightning flashes through the open air, less than 10 percent of
the total electrical activity is visible. The rest is hidden from view within
different layers of the cloud extending for miles through the storm.

To study an electrical storm’s internal wiring, researchers watch for either
Very High Frequency (VHF) waves caused by the breakdown of air in front of a
bolt’s path or radio waves produced by the movement of electrons. While
previous studies have shown that these two processes happen nearly
simultaneously, finding the exact time interval between them has proven
challenging.

But it’s a challenge that researchers at Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering
are up to. Steve Cummer, professor of electrical and computer engineering,
along with postdoctoral associate researcher Fanchao Lyu, have devised a
ground sensor system and data processing system that can track the sources of
radio wave emissions with more precision than ever before.

Lyu tested the system during a thunderstorm moving over Durham, NC, in June
2014. Besides two permanent sensors stationed in Duke Forest and Hudson Hall,
Lyu and his colleagues created a network of five mobile sensors 10 miles apart
by carrying them in the trunks of cars, parking, setting them up and powering
them through cigarette lighter outlets.

The system works by cross-correlating radio wave signals from two stations
during a 350-microsecond window to determine the difference in the waves’ time
of arrival. The time window is then slid 50 microseconds and the process is
repeated.

Because the radio waves travel at the speed of light, the difference in time
it takes them to reach each sensor is extremely small—but it is detectible.
That difference constrains the point from which the waves could have
originated. And after getting time-of-arrival differences from all of the
stations for a single event, the source of the radio waves can be pinpointed.

While this method has been used before, the number of sensors being used and
the way the data is processed makes Duke’s system more sensitive than any
previously deployed, giving good mapping results on both continuous emissions
and fast processes within the cloud. The tracking allowed Lyu to image more
processes during a lightning strike than ever before, providing a more
complete image of the event by radio signals.

The new system also allowed Lyu to create extremely detailed visualizations of
even the fastest processes of a lightning bolt. Watch below as a single
discharge nearly two seconds long spans an area more than 16 miles wide over
Duke University.

“Lightning is still a kind of mystery even after a century's study,” said Lyu.
“Our new development of this system enables us to map a more complete image of
lightning radio emissions than ever before, which should help us be able to
understand more about its processes.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

