

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# MRI Technology Reveals Deep Brain Pathways in Unprecedented Detail

June 24, 2015

A Duke MD-PhD student improves brain imaging resolution 1000 times over, which
could lead to better treatment of tremors and other neurological disorders

_Reposted from Duke Medicine News and Communications_

Scientists at Duke Medicine—including a recent Duke biomedical engineering PhD
graduate—have produced a 3-D map of the human brain stem at an unprecedented
level of detail using MRI technology.

In a study to be published June 3 in Human Brain Mapping, the researchers
unveil an ultra high-resolution brain stem model that could better guide brain
surgeons treating conditions such as tremors and Parkinson’s disease with deep
brain stimulation (DBS).

The new 3-D model could reduce risky trial-and-error as surgeons implant
electrodes — a change akin to trading an outdated paper road atlas for a real-
time GPS.

“On the conventional MRI that we take before surgery, the thalamus looks like
a gray mass where you can see only the borders,” said neurosurgeon Nandan Lad,
M.D., Ph.D., director of the Duke NeuroOutcomes Center and an author of the
paper. “Now we will have actual detail. With this map, for the first time
we’re able to see the thalamus and that underlying circuitry that we are
modulating.”

Many neurosurgeons currently rely on lower resolution CT and MRI scans and
geographic coordinates relative to the planes of the brain to guide them when
placing electrodes into the thalamus. They are targeting a circuit called the
dentatorubrothalamic tract or DRT (depicted as an X-shaped pathway in the
accompanying image), Lad said.

Surgeons must often remove and reinsert electrodes and test frequencies to
find the spots inside the thalamus where, for instance, the electric current
subdues the hands of a patient with debilitating tremors. This indirect
targeting is the standard of care for DBS, but comes with risk. Moving an
electrode requires another pass through delicate tissue, and complications
from DBS can include hemorrhage, seizure, or memory problems.

“This map will potentially help us reach the optimal target the first time,”
Lad said. “It could eliminate trial and error and make the surgery safer.”

The map was produced by technology developed at the Duke Center for In VIvo
Microscopy by Evan Calabrese, who is enrolled in the School of Medicine’s
Medical Scientist (MD-PhD) Training program. As part of his PhD research in
biomedical engineering, Calabrese worked to extend diffusion tensor imaging
(DTI) to microscopic resolutions, creating images 1000 times more detailed
than routine clinical scans.

DTI works by using many 3D images to calculate tensors—simplified mathematical
representations of data—describing the direction and amount of water diffusion
at that point, indicating where neural fibers and connections are located.
Calabrese’s research developed imaging hardware and software that could
develop a neural map with an unprecedented (200 micron) resolution.

The map was produced from a 10-day scan of a healthy donor’s postmortem brain
stem in a 7-Tesla MRI system, and then converted into a 3-D model that can be
proportionally scaled to fit a person’s unique brain anatomy using a high-
performance computing cluster.

“These images are 1,000 times more detailed than a clinical MRI,” said G.
Allan Johnson, senior author of the paper and director of the Duke Center for
In Vivo Microscopy, where the brain stem was scanned. “You can actually see
the nerve fibers in the brain, how they’re crossing, and the subtleties of
contrast between gray and white matter in the brain far beyond what a clinical
scan could offer.”

To test the accuracy of the model, the researchers conducted a retrospective
study of 12 patients who had already been treated successfully for tremors
using DBS. The researchers used the 3-D model to predict the best placement
for the electrodes in each patient. The predictive computer model and the
actual successful electrode placements correlated for 22 of 24 electrodes in
the dozen patients, the study showed.

The researchers will soon begin a prospective study using the 3-D model to
guide DBS surgery.

“As time goes on, imaging will only continue to get better,” Lad said. “We are
well-equipped and at the cutting edge of understanding how to apply this
technology, and will be in an even better position to treat more patients with
fewer side effects."

The Duke team will also pursue high resolution imaging of other circuits in
the brain, brain stem and spinal cord to develop new treatments for other
conditions.

“We now have a guide to be able to visualize these complex neuronal
connections that would otherwise be impossible to see,” said Calabrese, who
was the lead author of the paper. “This will help us continue to explore
applications for treatments of Alzheimer’s disease, neuropathic pain,
depression and even obsessive compulsive disorders.”

In addition to Johnson, Calabrese, and Lad, study authors include Patrick
Hickey, Christine Hulette, Jingxian Zhang, and Beth Parente.

The researchers received funding from the National Institutes of Health and
the National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering (P41
EB015897).

###

“Postmortem diffusion MRI of the human brainstem and thalamus for deep brain
stimulator electrode localization.” Evan Calabrese, Patrick Hickey, Christine
Hulette, Jingxian Zhang, Beth Parente, Shivanand P. Lad, G. Allan Johnson.
_Human Brain Mapping,_ 2015 Jun 3. doi: 10.1002/hbm.22836.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

