

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Proteins in Your Runny Nose Could Reveal a Viral Infection

February 22, 2017 | by Samiha Khanna

Scientists identify biomarkers in mucus that verify viral infection from cold
or flu

_Originally posted on Duke Health_

It may seem obvious, but the key to confirming whether someone is suffering
from a cold or flu virus might lie at the misery’s source -- the inflamed
passages of the nose and throat.

Duke Health scientists have identified a group of proteins that, when detected
in specific quantities in the mucus, are 86 percent accurate in confirming the
infection is from a cold or flu virus, according to a small, proof-of-concept
trial published online in the journal EBioMedicine.

The researchers hope their initial work identifying the protein signature
could aid the development of a quick, noninvasive doctor’s office test to
determine the cause of upper respiratory illness and appropriate treatment.

“Every day, people are taking time off from work, going to emergency rooms,
urgent care or their primary care doctors with symptoms of an upper
respiratory infection,” said Geoffrey S. Ginsburg, M.D., Ph.D., a senior
author of the paper, a professor of biomedical engineering, director of Duke
MEDx, and director of the Duke Center for Applied Genomics & Precision
Medicine (DCAGPM), which led the study. “Looking for these proteins could be a
relatively easy and inexpensive way of learning if a person has a viral
infection, and if not, whether the use of antibiotics is appropriate.”

Although upper respiratory infections are among the most common reasons people
visit the doctor in the U.S., health care providers lack tools to distinguish
between a bacterial infection that might warrant antibiotics and a viral
infection that would instead call for symptom relief.

Widespread use of antibiotics for upper respiratory infections doesn’t benefit
patients with viral illness and can contribute to antibiotic-resistant
superbugs, Ginsburg said. More precise diagnoses of these infections could be
another tool to curb the development of superbugs, he said.

For the trial, researchers infected 88 healthy adult volunteers with a common
strain of cold or flu virus.

Some participants didn’t get sick. Among those who developed infections,
researchers found a distinct set of 25 proteins in fluid samples they gathered
by flushing about 2 teaspoons of saline through the participant’s nasal
passages.

Duke researchers in genomics and precision medicine have spent the past decade
exploring strategies for differentiating bacterial and viral infections with
the goal of developing cost-effective diagnostic tools doctors could use in
their offices.

“In the past, science has focused on identifying the pathogen someone is
infected with in the blood or other sample,” said lead author Thomas Burke,
Ph.D., director of technology advancement and diagnostics at the DCAGPM. “Our
approach flips the paradigm of how we look for infection. Instead of looking
for the pathogen, we study the individual’s response to that pathogen and
signature patterns in their genes, proteins, metabolites and other
biomarkers.”

The Duke team has previously explored blood tests to examine a patient’s RNA
for gene signatures to distinguish bacterial and viral infections in the upper
respiratory tract and is working with a private company to develop potential
diagnostics.

Analyzing proteins in mucus is a less invasive approach and requires less
processing than blood samples. The researchers hope additional studies verify
the initial results and lead to the development of a paper-based test that
could be used in doctor’s offices or even at home to determine whether a
doctor’s visit is necessary, said Christopher Woods, M.D., a senior author and
associate director of applied genomics at the DCAGPM.

“The protein targets offer a faster, more cost-effective model for rapid
screening and diagnoses of viral infections,” Woods said. “If the data are
verified, the model could be valuable in many circumstances, such as rural
settings or developing countries with less convenient access to health care,
or even as an airport screening tool during an outbreak of a particularly
threatening strain of flu.”

In addition to Ginsburg, Woods and Burke, study authors included Ricardo
Henao, assistant research professor of electrical and computer engineering;
Erik Soderblom; Ephraim L. Tsalik; J. Will Thompson; Micah T. McClain;
Marshall Nichols; Bradly P. Nicholson; Timothy Veldman; Joseph E. Lucas; M.
Arthur Moseley; Ronald B. Turner; Robert Lambkin-Williams; and Alfred O. Hero
III.

The research was supported by the U.S. Defense Advanced Research Projects
Agency (N66001-07-C-2024) and the Clinical Science Research and Development
Service of the Veterans Affairs Office of Research and Development
(1IK2CX000530, 1IK2CX000611). The authors disclosed no potential conflicts of
interest.

###

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

