

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Munich Internship Offered Hands-On Participation in International Research

November 6, 2017 | By Jeni Baker

Master's student Frank Fang worked on a rotorcraft efficiency study while at
Germany's Technical Institute of Munich

Duke Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science (MEMS) student Zhang "Frank"
Fang was investigating summer internship opportunities when he heard through
his department about the Practical Research Experience Program (PREP) at the
prestigious Technical University of Munich (TUM).

“When I learned that PREP integrates research into the internship experience
at one of the top engineering universities, I decided I wanted to take part,”
Fang says.

### Career Services

The Engineering Master's Career Services Team offers a wide range of options
for master's students, including:

  * **Career advising**
  * **Workshops** and guest speakers
  * **Career fair preparation**
  * **Company visits** in nearby Research Triangle Park (RTP)
  * **A weekly newsletter** with links to job and internship opportunities and
    more

Learn more about our Career Services for master's students

During the 10-week program, Fang conducted research for SABRE (Shape Adaptive
Blades for Rotorcraft Efficiency), an international study aimed at developing
innovative helicopter blade-morphing technologies.

"The TUM/PREP program is one of the many opportunities Duke Engineering
facilitates for our master’s students through our career services," said Brad
Fox, associate dean of engineering master's programs. "These research and
internship experiences allow students to explore their academic and industrial
interests."

Fang explored his interest in aerodynamics through research in blade morphing,
which involves changing the flap angle of a rotor blade, which itself affects
rotor performance.

“After I built models of blades with various flap angles using MATLAB
software, I meshed the models with ANSYS ICEM CFD software,” he says. “The
meshed models were entered into the TAU solver, and then I analyzed the
influence of blade-morphing mechanisms from the simulation data.”

Fang enjoyed his down time while in Munich — a European hub for advanced
technology and manufacturing, and the third largest city in Germany.

“I got to explore the German culture with colleagues and local students,” he
says. “We did a lot of activities in our spare time, which helped us build a
closer relationship with each other.”

Now in his third semester of the MEMS Master of Science (MS) program, Fang
holds an undergraduate degree in mechanical engineering from the University of
Birmingham. He is considering both the automobile industry and the medical
instrumentation field as possible career paths.

“PREP was a great opportunity to conduct hands-on research with very
intelligent people from different countries, as well as to gain a deeper
understanding of computational fluid dynamics (CFD), which is essential in
mechanical engineering,” Fang says.

Explore Master's Career Services

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

