

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Musah Named Among Inspiring Black Scientists in America

February 14, 2020

Biomedical engineer Samira Musah was recognized for her innovative research in
stem cell engineering and human kidney disease

Samira Musah, an assistant professor in Duke University’s Department of
Biomedical Engineering and the Department of Medicine’s Division of
Nephrology, was recently recognized by Cell Press on their list, “100
Inspiring Black Scientists in America.”

Highlighting 75 well-established professors and 25 researchers deemed “rising
stars,” the list, published on the Cell Press blog Cross Talk, highlights
black scientists who make significant contributions to scientific fields,
including biomedical engineering, chemistry and physics, but may be unknown to
the masses. The list also serves as a resource to encourage the existing and
forthcoming generation of scientists.

"It is an honor to be recognized among these stellar and highly accomplished
scientists,” said Musah, who joined the Duke faculty this year as a MEDx
Investigator. “As an independent investigator and a mentor, this reminds me of
the wonderful mentors and sponsors that I have had along the way –– I thank
them for challenging me to excel, and perhaps more importantly, for giving me
the resources and flexibility to do so.”

“I hope that this list also inspires every child or young professional out
there to follow their passion."

Musah’s research involves the use of patient-derived stem cells to understand
the mechanisms of human kidney disease, a disorder that affects more than 10
percent of the world’s population. Healthy kidneys filter blood, removing
waste and extra fluid as urine, but when kidney function breaks down,
dangerous levels of fluid and waste can build up in the body, damaging the
heart, brain and immune system. Because many patients don’t exhibit early
symptoms of kidney disease, diagnosis typically doesn’t occur until kidney
function is severely impaired. This often requires patients to go on dialysis,
which usually only delays the need for a kidney transplant.

“By reprogramming a patient’s own cells to stem cells, and then
differentiating them to specific cell types such as podocytes and proximal
tubule epithelial cells, we can understand like never before how human tissues
develop and function in health and disease,” said Musah. According to Musah,
this work could help researchers begin to identify biomarkers for kidney
disease and develop novel therapeutics for the illness.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

