

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Nanoparticles Accumulate Quickly in Wetland Sediment

October 1, 2014 | By Ken Kingery

Aquatic food chains might be harmed by molecules "piggybacking" on carbon
nanoparticles.

A Duke University team has found that nanoparticles called single-walled
carbon nanotubes accumulate quickly in the bottom sediments of an experimental
wetland setting, an action they say could indirectly damage the aquatic food
chain.

The results indicate little risk to humans ingesting the particles through
drinking water, say scientists at Duke’s Center for the Environmental
Implications of Nanotechnology (CEINT). But the researchers warn that, based
on their previous research, the tendency for the nanotubes to accumulate in
sediment could indirectly damage the aquatic food chain in the long term if
the nanoparticles provide “Trojan horse” piggyback rides to other harmful
molecules.

The results appear online in the journal Environmental Science: Nano.

Carbon nanotubes are rapidly becoming more common because of their usefulness
in nanoelectric devices, composite materials and biomedicine.

The Duke study was done using small-scale replications of a wetland
environment, called "mesocosms," that include soil, sediments, microbes,
insects, plants and fish. These ecosystems-in-a-box are “semi-closed,” meaning
they get fresh air and rainwater but don’t drain to their surroundings. While
not perfect representations of a natural environment, mesocosms provide a
reasonable compromise between the laboratory and the real world.

“The wetland mesocosms we used are a much closer approximation of the natural
processes constantly churning in the environment," said Lee Ferguson,
associate professor of civil and environmental engineering at Duke. "Although
it’s impossible to know if our results are fully accurate to natural
ecosystems, it is clear that the processes we’ve seen should be considered by
regulators and manufacturers.”

Ferguson and his colleagues dosed the mesocosms with single-walled carbon
nanotubes and measured their concentrations in the water, soil and living
organisms during the course of a year. They found that the vast majority of
the nanoparticles quickly accumulated in the sediment on the “pond” floor.
However, they found no sign of nanoparticle buildup in any plants, insects or
fish living in the mesocosms.

While this is good news for humans or other animals drinking water after a
potential spill or other contamination event, the accumulation in sediment
does pose concerns for both sediment-dwelling organisms and the animals that
eat them. Previous research has shown that carbon nanotubes take a long time
to degrade through natural processes -- if they do at all -- and any chemical
that binds to them cannot easily be degraded either.

“These nanoparticles are really good at latching onto other molecules,
including many known organic contaminants,” said Ferguson. “Coupled with their
quick accumulation in sediment, this may allow problematic chemicals to linger
instead of degrading. The nanoparticle-pollutant package could then be eaten
by sediment-dwelling organisms in a sort of ‘Trojan horse’ effect, allowing
the adsorbed contaminants to accumulate up the food chain.

“The big question is whether or not these pollutants can be stripped away from
the carbon nanotubes by these animals’ digestive systems after being
ingested,” continued Ferguson. “That’s a question we’re working to answer
now.”

This research was supported by the National Science Foundation, the
Environmental Protection Agency under the National Science Foundation
cooperative agreement EF-0830093, the Center for the Environmental
Implications of Nanotechnology and the Environmental Protection Agency’s
Science to Achieve Results (STAR) program (RD833859).

***

“Fate of single walled carbon nanotubes in wetland ecosystems.” Schierz, A.,
Espinasse, B., Wiesner, M.R., Bisesi, J.H., Sabo-Attwood, T., Ferguson, P.L.
Environmental Science: Nano, Sept. 2014. DOI: 10.1039/c4en00063c.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

