

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Nathaniel Chaney: Harnessing Petabytes to Better Understand the Global Water
Cycle

August 23, 2018

New faculty member Nathaniel Chaney studies how the geological and manmade
features over land influence the global water cycle and as a result, impact
weather, water resources and agriculture

Nathaniel Chaney has joined the Department of Civil and Environmental
Engineering in Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering. With research
focused on analyzing massive amounts of data to better understand the Earth’s
hydrological cycle, Chaney looks to increase the precision of weather
forecasts and improve the prediction of droughts and floods.

Scores of research projects have gathered environmental data for the better
part of the past half-century using satellite imagery, rain gauge networks,
field surveys and more. The result is petabytes of information that could fill
billions of modern smartphones, but has yet to be used to its full potential.

Chaney looks to tap into this vast reserve of data to understand and better
manage Earth’s water resources. For example, satellite imagery can help unveil
how valleys, rivers, forests and farmlands interact to influence larger
phenomena such as weather patterns, droughts and floods.

“When you’re flying in an airplane and look out the window, you can see all of
these patterns on the ground made by geological and human processes,” said
Chaney. “By sifting through the incredible amount of imagery data we have on a
global scale, we can start to extract why things look the way they do, how
these features interact and discover how they impact our water resources.”

Chaney uses statistical and machine learning approaches to tease out these
effects. The resulting insights feed into simple models that can be tested on
local computer clusters. If those pan out, Chaney develops more complex global
models to test in national supercomputing facilities. Then, he looks to see
how well these complex models predict actual hydrological systems across the
globe to further fine-tune them.

> "My dream is to eventually be able to provide each farmer with their own
> detailed forecast to support precision agriculture, so they could better
> estimate how much to water their crops today based on their more precise
> forecast for tomorrow.”

The end results could be a boon for everyone who relies on a steady water
supply—that is, basically everyone in the world.

“Right now weather forecasts over the globe are at best broken down into
10-square-mile boxes,” said Chaney. “But a farmer on a ridge within that box
can have very different weather patterns and water needs than a farmer in a
valley. My dream is to eventually be able to provide each farmer with their
own detailed forecast to support precision agriculture, so they could better
estimate how much to water their crops today based on their more precise
forecast for tomorrow.”

With dual undergraduate degrees in atmospheric sciences and applied
mathematics from University of California--Berkeley, Chaney has been pursuing
this mix of scientific disciplines for nearly a decade. He earned both his
master’s and doctoral degrees in civil and environmental engineering from
Princeton University, where he remained in a variety of research roles before
joining the faculty at Duke.

Having lived on both coasts, Chaney says it was time to experience the South.
But more than its location, Chaney says he chose Duke for its strong data
science community and emerging collaborations between schools.

“Both the CEE department and the Nicholas School of the Environment are
exceptional institutions with well-known faculty that attract great
undergraduate and graduate students alike,” Chaney said. “I’m really looking
forward to working with all of them in the coming years.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

