

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# ‘Network of Networks’ to Advance International Efforts for Sustainable
Materials

August 2, 2021

Duke-led INFRAMES initiative will connect researchers across fields and
nations to build the collaborations and resources needed to study the
sustainability of tomorrow’s materials

Environmental engineers from Duke University are leading a new international
effort to evolve the tools and methods available for assessing the potential
environmental impact of new materials.

Beginning in 2008, Duke’s Center for the Environmental Implications of
NanoTechnology (CEINT) brought together experts from more than a dozen
national and international institutions. CEINT addresses questions about the
transport and toxicity of nanoparticles, and has played a central role in the
international community evaluating the environment, health, and safety (EHS)
of this new class of materials, opening doors to designing more efficient and
effective nanomaterials.

Leveraging that accumulated expertise and expansive community, the leaders of
CEINT have teamed other US and international partners to create a “network of
networks” to address some of the largest questions looming about the
environmental impacts of newly emerging materials in general. Funded by a
five-year, $1.6 million grant from the National Science Foundation’s AccelNET
program, the new initiative is called the International Network for
Researching, Advancing, and Assessing Materials for Environmental
Sustainability—or INFRAMES for short.

“INFRAMES represents a community of people who have been working on
environmental nanotechnology for more than a decade,” said Mark Wiesner, the
architect of INFRAMES and former director of CEINT. “That experience gave us
insights into the kinds of tools and procedures needed to look at the
sustainability of new materials. This grant will allow us to port that
experience into a broad consideration of materials being pursued for emerging
applications.”

Generally speaking, those emerging applications include particle-based
delivery systems for nutrients and pesticides in agricultural applications;
materials used in transportation; advanced materials for resource recovery and
water treatment; engineered and incidental bio-particles; and evaluating the
consequences of micro/nano plastics.

Besides the researchers and institutions associated with CEINT, INFRAMES will
draw expertise from a long list of similarly focused networks, including 12
institutions connected to the US-based Center for Sustainable Nanotechnology;
The North Carolina A&T-UNCG Joint Schools of Nanoscience; elements of the
National Nanotechnology Coordinated Infrastructure; eight on-going European
Union networks (SAbyNa , Gracious, NanoCommons, RiskGONE, NanoInformaTIX,
SERENADE, ACENano and Nanosaftely Cluster) representing over 100 participating
European Union partners; the Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and
Technology (KNUST) in Ghana; and researchers at six synchrotron X-ray
facilities in four countries.

“Each group has its own history and expertise, like characterizing materials
with high-energy beam lines, seeing how materials move through complex
mesocosms, or developing computational modeling infrastructure,” said Wiesner.
“But we all share a history of working together. That’s the key to making this
work.”

Through the next five years, INFRAMES will further connect these communities
through workshops designed to share targeted areas of applications and tools
that have been developed, organizing short-courses, collaborative grant
writing, and allowing students to spend time working in different labs to
spread expertise. The collaborations and experiences will help the larger
sustainable materials community develop shared terminologies and methods to
improve data sharing and analysis across disciplines and nations.

“When the program ends, there should be not only a greater dissemination of
what we’ve developed so far, but also a clearer statement of what the needs of
the field are moving forward,” said Wiesner. “We want to create a better
understanding of how we can continue to make all materials in a general sense
a more environmentally sustainable enterprise.”

Learn more about **INFRAMES**

## Related News

October 25, 2018

### Ten Years In, What Has CEINT Taught Us?

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

