

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Vahid Tarokh: Turning Patterns in Data into Products and Predictions

November 6, 2017

New faculty member Vahid Tarokh has a history of securing strong signals from
complicated datasets

Vahid Tarokh will join the faculty of Duke University’s Pratt School of
Engineering as the Rhodes Family Professor of Electrical and Computer
Engineering in January 2018. One of the world’s most cited researchers in
computer science, Tarokh is known for his singular contributions to signal
processing and current work to create new methods for modeling and making
predictions from small amounts of data.

“Most of my research has been about finding ways of discovering, creating or
hiding patterns in a variety of signals and systems,” said Tarokh, who joins
Duke from his current position as Perkins Professor of Applied Mathematics and
Vinton Hayes Senior Research Fellow of Electrical Engineering at Harvard
University. “Sometimes the aim is to improve things like reception quality--
other times we look at patterns to improve modeling, detection and prediction
for various applications. Occasionally, we have even thought about ways to
hide a pattern, for example, from an adversary."

While working for AT&T Labs in the late 1990s, Tarokh helped invent the
algorithms called space-time codes that most modern cellular phones use to
transmit data. The technique sends several data streams of information
simultaneously and combines the segments of received signal in an optimal way
to provide signal redundancy. These space-time codes achieved significant
error rate improvements over single-antenna systems and have been incorporated
in a broad range of wireless standards.

After moving to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 2000 and Harvard
University in 2002, Tarokh did early foundational work on distributed
communications, spectrum sharing and cognitive radios. Cognitive radios are
now allowed by the FCC for sharing the spectrum in various bands. He later
became interested in researching various areas of signal processing and its
applications to radar, interferometry and biology. Some of his projects
included the development of "smart" shoe insoles to detect falls in the
elderly, seizure prediction tools, systems to detect masses of tissue within
the human body and environmentally sustainable communications systems.

> "I was very impressed by the faculty that I met, who are intellectually
> outstanding and truly collegial,” said Tarokh. “I was also impressed by the
> leadership. Great leaders are hard to find, and kudos to the people who put
> this amazing team together."

As Tarokh moves to Duke, he plans to use the interdisciplinary opportunities
for collaboration provided by the Information Initiative at Duke (iiD) and the
Duke Quantitative Initiative to pursue new approaches to getting the most out
of small sets of data. For example, he currently has projects focused on
security for the Internet of Things with Robert Calderbank, director of the
iiD and professor of electrical and computer engineering at Duke, and
predicting events from small amounts of data, such as determining how
different people will respond after exposure to certain viruses, with Ricardo
Henao, assistant research professor of electrical and computer engineering and
assistant professor of biostatistics and bioinformatics.

“I believe that 50 years from now, people may think of our era as golden
times,” said Tarokh. “The tools we are inventing now may enable new, faster
and semi-automated methods of scientific discovery. This, in turn, might
further amplify the pace of progress and significantly impact various areas of
health, science and technology.”

Tarokh’s move to Duke will reunite him with his friend and mentor Calderbank,
who was formerly director of the Information Sciences Research Center at AT&T
Labs and worked with Tarokh on developing the space-time codes. Besides having
faith in Calderbank’s vision for his growing initiative, Tarokh cited the
leadership and opportunities for collaboration at Duke engineering and
sciences with excellent colleagues as the reasons for his move.

“I was very impressed by the faculty that I met, who are intellectually
outstanding and truly collegial,” said Tarokh. “I was also impressed by the
leadership. Great leaders are hard to find, and kudos to the people who put
this amazing team together.”

Besides being an interdisciplinary researcher whose work can be applied to
several departments across the university, Duke is also gaining an
accomplished teacher. Having hosted local high school students in his
laboratory through a program sponsored by the U.S. Army Research Office,
Tarokh works diligently to pay forward the benefits he has reaped by having
excellent mentors throughout his own career.

“Filling the shoes of these mentors is very hard, but I can try to get young
people interested in science at an early stage of their careers,” said Tarokh.
“Plus, undergraduate and graduate students often offer their own original
views and surprise me with their novel ideas. I continue to be inspired by the
speed with which they can absorb new concepts and their thirst for learning,
their idealism, their level of energy and their originality.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

