

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Rabih Younes: Integrating Machine Learning with Motion-Capturing Wearable
Devices

September 12, 2018

New professor of the practice Rabih Younes blends the fields of wearable
computing and machine learning

Rabih Younes is a new professor of the practice of electrical and computer
engineering at Duke University specializing in using machine learning
techniques to tease out detailed information about people’s activities from
advanced wearable motion-capturing technologies. He earned his undergraduate
and master’s degrees in computer engineering from Lebanese American University
before completing his PhD in 2018 from Virginia Tech in the same field.
Besides his research into data analysis from wearable devices, Younes brings a
passion for teaching to his new position at Duke.

**Welcome to Duke, Professor Younes! Can you tell us a bit about your research
interests?**

The work I did for my doctorate while at Virginia Tech was a blend between the
two fields of wearable computing and machine learning. My advisor was
designing a wearable system that could recognize your daily activities. The
hardware was essentially a motion-capture suit, which entailed designing a
loose-fitting sensor network and processing units that conformed to
wearability constraints. I worked more on trying to blend the hardware with
the software, which used machine learning and optimization techniques to
classify the various activities of the user.

**What’s the overall goal of developing such a system?**

The motivation for the project is mainly in healthcare. When doctors need to
track patients outside of the clinic, they rely on a log sheet where the
patients are responsible for taking their physiological data and reporting
what they were doing at the time. But if we could automate that entire
process, not only would the data be much more accurate, it could be used to
treat them better and predict what diseases they might develop at a later
date.

**Will you be continuing this line of research at Duke?**

I won’t be working on that sort of a suit per se—I’ve always been more focused
on using machine learning for the activity classification part of the process.
In general, I’ll be working with motion capture tools toward developing
systems that people would actually choose to wear on a daily basis and that
would be much more comprehensive in their activity recognition than something
like a Fitbit, for example.

**As a professor of the practice, a large part of your work will be in
teaching. What courses are you leading?**

This fall I am teaching the ECE 350 course, called Digital Systems, which is
the class I originally fell in love with that led me down this path of study.
It has to do with the basic level of hardware design and sort of explains how
you can build machines.

I’m also offering a new graduate-level course here at Duke that has to do with
my research. It’s an ECE 590 course that is called Wearable and Ubiquitous
Computing, which obviously has a lot to do with wearable technologies! Next
semester I will continue teaching ECE 350 along with a graduate-level
course—ECE 650—called Systems Programming and Engineering.

> "I try to be as student-focused as I can. I try to motivate students in
> whichever ways work, even if I have to try a million different ways to
> motivate everybody and make them love the material."

**What’s your philosophy when it comes to teaching?**

I’ve actually always loved teaching—I’ve been doing it some form since I was a
tutor in high school. And while I love my research, I actually got my
doctorate degree so I could teach on the collegiate level. That’s why while I
was at Virginia Tech I conducted some research in engineering education, which
I plan to continue here.

Based on what I’ve learned from that work, I try to push my students to be
better critical thinkers, and to communicate their science better with the
world. These are two problems that are pretty much ubiquitous everywhere in
the world. They manifest in different ways depending on where you are, but
they are problems and they impact society a lot, so we should work on them.

And of course I try to be as student-focused as I can. I try to motivate
students in whichever ways work, even if I have to try a million different
ways to motivate everybody and make them love the material. After all, they
can go to Google or register on something like Coursera and learn all kinds of
things with these online tools, so I should give them a good reason to come to
class.

**Why did you choose to come to Duke?**

Duke was one of the more highly ranked institutions that I applied to, and
that was appealing. You can see the difference in Duke students—they’re the
best of the best. It’s just my first week, but I think they’re amazing. They
always want to learn more and have a complete understanding of every single
detail, in the classroom and during my office hours. I expected something like
that, but not to this level. But it’s good because it makes me come to class
well-prepared to this challenging environment, and it’s great to have students
that raise the bar this high. I bet that they’ll have some really nice
projects at the end of the semester.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

