

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# A New Mentor for Entrepreneurial Engineers

February 7, 2020

A Q&A with Inga Deakin, the incoming Entrepreneur-in-Residence for Duke BME

_As the new Entrepreneur-in-Residence (EIR) in Duke University’s Department of
Biomedical Engineering, Inga Deakin will use her entrepreneurial experience to
guide faculty and students who want to turn promising research projects into
commercial products. She comes to Duke with a background in venture capital
and startups in the United Kingdom, where she helped fund numerous
researchers, cultivate partnerships and ultimately sell their products. As the
second EIR in Duke BME, Deakin will split her time between BME and the Office
of Licensing & Ventures’ Duke New Ventures, where she’ll support startups
focused on medical devices, biotechnology and other innovative biomedical
products._

What drew you to Duke BME?

Biomedical Engineering as a discipline is really broad, and that’s one of the
things that’s really exciting about the department––there are so many
different technical skills and approaches to these long-standing problems.
It’s apparent that many of the researchers in this department are developing
new platforms that can be used in a variety of ways, like diagnosing diseases
or for different industrial applications, like purifying antibodies. The
breadth of experience and expertise across the department is really
interesting, including wet lab biology, hardware engineering for medical
devices, software and combinations of these specialties. There are lots of
opportunities for entrepreneurship and commercialization, and I’m excited to
go to the different labs and meet these teams and see how I can help them move
their ideas forward.

What was your entrepreneurial experience like prior to accepting the position
in Duke BME?

Prior to accepting this position, I was chief of staff at a liquid biopsy
company in Research Triangle Park, which was a spinout from the University of
Cambridge. The company was developing technology that could improve the
diagnosis of lung cancer. Before that I was a Principal at Imperial
Innovations/Touchstone Innovations (now IP Group), which is a venture capital
fund. We raised £450m (over $580 million) to invest in spinouts from Cambridge
University, Oxford, Imperial College and University College London. Our goal
was to help these researchers with early commercialization questions to build
a plan and team to deliver the key experiments and developments to de-risk an
investment opportunity. We were often the initial seed investor and then would
lead to build an investment syndicate of VCs and corporate partners.

During my time in venture capital, I represented the fund on the board of five
companies, and I think my strength comes from that range of seeing all sorts
of startups that had unique needs, whether it’s expertise, funding or even
resources like lab space. For example, I worked with a helical stent company
to bring in a new investor to fund a US regulatory study, which helped their
company get acquired by a larger company. I also worked with an ophthalmology
company with a new platform to deliver medicine to the retina, so we were
looking at ways to commercialize that for a multitude of clinical indications.
I also worked with PhD students to set up a company called Puridify, which
developed more efficient processes to purify large quantities of antibodies.
The company had multiple pharma partnerships and was then acquired by GE
Healthcare. Prior to my VC experience I worked in a biotech incubator in
London and completed a PhD in Neuroscience from Oxford. I think that
experience of working directly with the faculty and students and helping to
guide their work from the very beginning helped prepare me for this role.

How will you support the entrepreneurial community in Duke BME?

I’ll be on campus every day, so I’m available to students and faculty who have
ideas that they’d like to develop commercially. I enjoy meeting in the
investigator’s labs to see the technologies in development and teams in
action. Being on campus also means that I can more actively track programs
such as through the design curriculum or programs like Design Health. It’s
important to recognize that enabling technologies to develop outside academia
doesn’t always require VC money and a new company, it’s about finding the
right path for each project, and an early license to an established company
can be a great outcome. My impression is there’s also a growing community of
graduate students and post-doctoral fellows who are interested in making
startups based on their research, and one of my goals is to help
entrepreneurial programs, like the Entrepreneurial Post-Doctoral Fellowship or
BRiDGE, continue to grow and attract researchers with those innovative ideas.

I’m also looking forward to collaborating with leaders across the Pratt School
of Engineering, including Associate Dean Ken Gall and Mattson Family Director
Bill Walker in Engineering Entrepreneurship. My work also includes Duke’s
Office of Licensing & Ventures, where I’ll serve as one of five Mentors-in-
Residence, to work with faculty startup projects and provide guidance ranging
from creating pitch decks to developing market assessments and making
introductions to potential investors. I think our entrepreneurial efforts
across both engineering and Duke as a whole are well-aligned, and I’m eager to
use my biomedical and VC experience to help support Duke BME.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

