

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Manolis Veveakis: Cracking Geophysical Enigmas Worldwide

October 24, 2017

New faculty member Manolis Veveakis studies the physics of the deep
underground to find better ways to predict earthquakes, stabilize mines,
safely dispose of nuclear waste and more

Manolis Veveakis has joined the faculty of the Department of Civil and
Environmental Engineering at Duke University. With the goal of continuing and
expanding on Duke’s strengths in geomechanics, Veveakis applies his developing
theories and models to a range of challenges, from understanding why nuclear
waste disposal facilities fail to uncovering why a mountain suddenly and
violently came crashing down into a lake.

Geomechanics is a field of many scales. Sometimes it deals with how fluids
move through and affect tiny pores in rocks, other times on miles of earth
cyclically slipping across entire fault lines. But no matter the application,
these movements all have two things in common: they take place more than a
mile underground and are very difficult to model.

“Understanding what’s happening down there requires a hybrid framework,”
explained Veveakis, who joins Duke from the University of New South Wales –
Sydney. “Small-scale experiments help us construct computational models of
large phenomena, which we use to try to understand events taking place all
across the world. And the data taken from the field go back into the models to
help them become more accurate and predictive.”

One example of where Veveakis’s research has taken him is Vajont, Italy, home
of the Vajont Dam. After the dam was completed in 1959 as one of the largest
in the world, it suffered a massive landslide in 1963 that caused an 820-foot-
tall megatsunami, completely destroying several villages and towns and causing
1,910 deaths. Why the land suddenly increased from a slow creep of a few
inches per year to 75 miles per hour remained a mystery for 40 years, until
Veveakis helped crack the case.

More recently, an accident happened in New Mexico, where a barrel of nuclear
waste had exploded in an underground nuclear dump. With costs potentially
topping $2 billion, the accident was quickly blamed on the switch from a
mineral substance used to soak up liquids in sealed drums to an organic
one—kitty litter. But why exactly that switch caused the accident remains a
mystery.

“It’s a different environment when you’re that deep underground,” said
Veveakis, who has been recruited to help find the answer. “The temperatures,
chemistry and behavior of materials are all totally different than what you
see on the surface.”

Back in the lab, Veveakis will continue to refine his theories and models of
how these systems work, so that he can ultimately offer design solutions to
such problems. For example, the work he did at Vajont Dam has changed the
criteria needed for mine slopes to be deemed safe and clarified what
parameters need to be monitored to ensure their stability.

The end goal is to develop models that can recreate conditions anywhere. While
the geology of the Earth is not uniform, even that far underground, the
conditions are similar enough that a good understanding of geophysics should
be able to be applied all over the world.

As for why he’s moving his work to Duke when his work takes him all over the
globe, Veveakis says it’s all about the people.

“I know there are legends in research at Duke,” said Veveakis. “One of them is
Tomasz Hueckel, who has helped shape the field of geophysics for several
decades. It will be a big challenge to continue to expand on the work already
being done at Duke, but I know I will help Duke improve, and vice versa.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

