

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# New Opportunities for Entrepreneurial Students

April 13, 2018

Announcing the Entrepreneurial Post-Doctoral program in BME

Graduates of doctoral programs in Biomedical Engineering are increasingly
focused on entrepreneurship as a career path. While PhD programs have been
successful in educating engineers focused on academic or corporate research
careers, they have not typically delivered the skills needed for graduates to
launch and succeed at startup companies. We are pleased to announce a new
entrepreneurially focused postdoctoral program in Biomedical Engineering to
address this emerging need. It focuses on imparting the skill set needed to
start technology-based companies to participants.

As a condition of entry into the program, candidates will agree to engage in
each of the **bolded** activities. Other activities are available optionally.
By the end of the first year, **all program participants will be required
to:**

  1. **Prepare and deliver a company pitch deck and supporting materials.** Entrepreneurship @ Duke Engineering will provide in-depth coaching to support the development of a detailed business plan and pitch deck.
  2. **Participate in The Entrepreneur’s Workshop Series** – Eight Saturday courses focused on key elements of entrepreneurship. Topics range from Customer Discovery to Corporate Law to Fundraising. Each short course is taught by a seasoned practitioner.
  3. **Participate in The In-Depth Customer Discovery Workshop** – This three-day workshop is designed to educate attendees in the fundamental processes needed to understand customer needs and frame product vision to align with those needs. This workshop will be offered by a seasoned practitioner.

**Resources available:**

• Salary Support: Program participants will receive the standard stipend
established by the NIH for PhDs with zero years of postdoctoral experience

• The BRIDGE: Program participants will be given preferential consideration in
applying for entry into the BRIDGE, the Duke BME incubator. The BRIDGE
provides mentorship, lab and office space, and interns.

• Mentors In Residence: The Office of Licensing and Ventures employs part-time
MIRs to support the commercialization of Duke owned IP. Participants in this
program will have access to the MIRs.

• Duke Team Mentoring: This program, to be launched in 2018, will couple teams
of seasoned entrepreneurs to new ventures. Participants in our program will
guided through the application process to improve their odds of success in
competing for mentoring teams.

• Duke Innovation Fund: Program participants may compete for $20k seed grants.

• Duke Angel Network: Program participants will be supported in applying for
funding by the Duke Angel Network.

**Eligibility:**

Applicants must be: (1) recent PhD graduates of Duke BME, with less than 1
year of research experience at the time they enter the program (the earliest
start date is August 1, 2018), or (2) plan to graduate with a PhD in BME from
Duke within the 2018-2019 academic year, and must start the program by May 1,
2019.

**Instructions for submitting an application:**

Please submit your application to chilkoti@duke.edu. Each application must
include in a single pdf file:

• A cover letter

• A 3-page proposal that provides a compelling argument for selection of the
candidate. In an introductory section, not to exceed a page, describe your
motivation in applying for this fellowship, what you plan to do during the
fellowship to take your startup idea from concept to reality (for example,
carry out additional experiments to answer key questions that will help in
fundraising, focus on business development and/or fundraising), and your
anticipated outcomes after one year of funding. In separate sections that
follow the introduction, describe: (i) product or service description to be
provided by proposed Newco; (ii) summary of data in support of the proposed
Newco; (iii) status of the underlying technology — ideally in terms of
Technology Readiness Level; (iv) estimate of market size; (v) indication of
who the customers are; (vi) IP status: provisional, pending, or issued
patents.

• The applicant’s academic transcript

• The applicant’s resume or CV

**Key dates:**

• Application submission deadline 11:59 pm on May 15, 2018

• Announcement of awardees: June 1, 2018

• Earliest commencement of program: August 1, 2018

• Final date for commencement of program for this funding cycle: May 1, 2019

Award information: Initial program support will be for one year, with the
opportunity to compete for a second year.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

