

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# New CRISPR Class Expands Genetic Engineering Toolbox

September 23, 2019

The new approach opens up nearly 90 percent of CRISPR-Cas systems for use in
human cells, including biomedical research and potential gene and cell
therapies

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have used a previously unexplored
CRISPR technology to accurately regulate and edit genomes in human cells.

With this new approach, the researchers hope to dramatically expand the
CRISPR-based tools available to biomedical engineers, opening up a new and
diverse frontier of genome engineering technologies.

In a study appearing on Sept. 23 in _Nature Biotechnology_ , Charles Gersbach,
the Rooney Family Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering at Duke, and
Adrian Oliver, a post-doctoral fellow in the Gersbach lab who led the project,
describe how they successfully harnessed Class 1 CRISPR systems to turn target
genes on and off and edit the epigenome in human cells for the first time.

CRISPR-Cas is a defense system in which bacteria use RNA molecules and CRISPR-
associated (Cas) proteins to target and destroy the DNA of invading viruses.
The discovery of this phenomenon and the repurposing of the molecular
machinery set off a genome-editing revolution as researchers learned how to
wield the tool to specifically target and edit DNA in human cells.

CRISPR-Cas9, the most commonly used genome editing tool today, is categorized
as a Class 2 CRISPR system. Class 2 systems are less common in the bacterial
world, but they are theoretically simpler to work with, as they rely on only
one Cas protein to target and cleave DNA.

Class 1 systems are not so simple, relying on multiple proteins working
together in a complex called Cascade (CRISPR-associated complex for antiviral
defense) to target DNA. After binding, Cascade recruits a Cas3 protein that
cuts the DNA.

"If you were to look at the individual CRISPR systems of all the bacteria in
the world, nearly 90 percent are Class 1 systems," said Gersbach. "CRISPR-Cas
biology is an incredible source for biotechnology tools, but until recently
everyone has only been looking at a small slice of the pie."

To demonstrate the capabilities of the Class 1 system, Oliver attached gene
activators to specific sites along a type I E. coli Cascade complex and
targeted the system to bind gene promoters, which regulate gene expression
levels. Because she did not include the Cas3 protein in the experiment, there
was no cutting of the DNA and no change to underlying DNA sequence. The
experiment showed that the Cascade activator not only binds to the correct
site and can turn up the levels of the target gene, but does so with accuracy
and specificity comparable to CRISPR/Cas9.

Oliver repeated the process using type I Cascade complexes from an additional
bacterial strain that was particularly robust in working at a variety of
target sites. She also showed that the activator domain could be swapped for a
repressor to turn target genes off. Again, the researchers noted accuracy and
specificity comparable to CRISPR/Cas9 methods.

"We have found Cascade's structure to be remarkably modular, allowing for a
variety of sites to attach activators or repressors, which are great tools for
altering gene expression in human cells," Oliver said. "The flexible nature of
Cascade makes it a promising genome engineering technology."

Gersbach and Oliver were encouraged to investigate the more complicated Class
1 CRISPR systems by their collaborators at nearby North Carolina State
University, Professors Rodolphe Barrangou and Chase Beisel, who is now at the
Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research in Germany. Barrangou is a
microbiologist who has studied the natural biology of diverse CRISPR defense
mechanisms for nearly two decades, and Beisel is a chemical engineer who has
worked with Barrangou on engineering microorganisms with Class 1 CRISPR
systems. They were both curious whether Gersbach's lab could use these systems
in human cells similar to their work with Cas9.

"This work and the resulting technologies are a fantastic example of how
collaboration across disciplines and across universities in the North Carolina
Research Triangle can be highly innovative and productive" says Barrangou, the
Todd R. Klaenhammer Distinguished Professor in Probiotics Research at North
Carolina State University.

Now, the team is optimistic that their study, and the related work of others
in the field, will incentivize new research into Class 1 CRISPR systems.

"The purpose of this project was to explore the diversity of CRISPR systems,"
said Gersbach. "There have been thousands of papers about CRISPR-Cas9 in the
last decade, and yet we're constantly learning new things about it. With this
study we're applying that mindset to the other 90% of what's out there."

So far, the team has shown that these Class 1 systems are comparable to to
CRISPR-Cas9 in terms of accuracy and application. As they consider future
directions, they are curious to explore how these systems differ from their
Class 2 counterparts, and how these differences could prove useful for
biotechnology applications.

The team is also interested in studying how Class 1 systems could address
general challenges for CRISPR-Cas research, especially issues that complicate
potential therapeutic applications, like immune responses to Cas proteins and
concurrently using multiple types of CRISPR for different genome engineering
functions.

"We know CRISPR could have a big impact on human health," said Gersbach. "But
we're still at the very beginning of understanding how CRISPR is going to be
used, what it can do, and what systems are available to us. We expect that
this new tool will enable new areas of genome engineering."

This work was supported by the National Institutes of Health, the National
Science Foundation, Locus Biosciences, an Allen Distinguished Investigator
Award from the Paul G. Allen Frontiers Group, the Thorek Memorial Foundation,
a Pfizer-NCBiotech Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellowship, and internal funds
from Duke University and North Carolina State University.

Charles Gersbach, Adrian Pickar-Oliver, Rodolphe Barrangou, and Chase Beisel
have filed patent applications related to genome engineering with Type I
CRISPR systems. Charles Gersbach is a co-founder and advisor to Locus
Biosciences and Element Genomics, and an advisor to Sarepta Therapeutics.
Rodolphe Barrangou is a co-founder and Science Advisory Board member of Locus
Biosciences and Intellia Therapeutics. Chase Beisel is a co-founder and
Science Advisory Board member of Locus Biosciences.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

