

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# New Pathway for Students to Double Major in BME and Computer Science

October 2, 2020 | Michaela Kane

Duke BME formalizes a new double major, offering a curriculum at the
intersection of computer science and biomedical engineering

Undergraduate students in biomedical engineering will now have a streamlined
path to graduate with a degree in both BME and computer science. The new
curriculum draws on longstanding collaborations between both departments, and
it establishes a clear map to graduation for students interested in careers in
biotechnology and at companies like Google, Amazon and Microsoft.

“Duke BME has an established curriculum for students wanting to double major
in mechanical engineering, civil and environmental engineering and electrical
and computer engineering, but this is the first formal curriculum for a double
major outside of Duke Engineering,” says Libby Bucholz, an assistant professor
of the practice in Duke BME. “In the past there hasn’t been a course checklist
if you want to major in both BME and CS, so students have had to make
compromises about the courses they can take or they’ve needed to overload
their schedules. This new program is designed to resolve those issues and
simplify the process for our students.”

“When I recommended the BME and CS double major option to students in previous
years, I had to give the caveat that arranging all the required courses would
be challenging,” says Teresa Mao, BSE’20. “I’m glad they are announcing this
official graduation roadmap so it’s easier for students to pursue the double
major if they are interested, without stressing about overloading their
schedules each semester.”

Bucholz and Marc Sommer, who lead the undergraduate program in Duke BME, are
optimistic that the new double major will be a great option for students who
are interested in medical software and technology, but aren’t necessarily
drawn to medical device design.

“In the past we’ve seen that students who pursue the BME and ECE double major
tend to want an experience that lends itself towards medical device design or
hardware design, and they’re interested in developing those relevant
engineering skills,” says Sommer. “But the BME and CS program will cater to
students more interested in the science behind optimizing algorithms and
machine learning, who want to pursue jobs at Google, Apple or tech companies
that may have a health component rather than a large health focus.”

“The majors complemented each other really well, and it gave me a great
understanding of health care and health systems,” says Suyash Kumar, who
graduated in 2016 with degrees in both BME and computer science. “It’s been
enormously helpful in my current role at Google Health, where I work at the
intersection of computer science and health care. I’m really glad I did the
double major, and I can’t recommend it highly enough.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

