

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# New Network to Meet Research Triangle’s Nanotechnology Needs

September 16, 2015

Duke part of National Science Foundation-funded network to help businesses,
educators pursue nanotechnology innovation

The Research Triangle of North Carolina is home to some of the most highly
ranked educational institutions in the country in science and technology.
These universities have helped to create a technology ecosystem that has
benefited the dynamic local tech startup climate, large established technology
companies, one of the largest community college systems in the nation and the
local K-12 educational system.

Three of the region’s leading universities, NC State University, Duke
University, and UNC-Chapel Hill, are expanding on this innovation ecosystem by
providing unprecedented access to nanotechnology facilities, expertise and
educational opportunities to businesses and educators.

With the help of a five-year, $5.5 million grant from the National Science
Foundation, NC State University, Duke University, and UNC-Chapel Hill are
launching a new partnership called the Research Triangle Nanotechnology
Network (RTNN). It is being funded by the National Nanotechnology Coordinated
Infrastructure (NNCI), which has enabled major discoveries, innovations, and
contributions to education and commerce by providing researchers from
academia, small and large companies, and government with open access to
university user facilities.

“The grant will fund efforts to open our doors and work more effectively with
the public, from major corporations and start-ups to community colleges and
K-12 educators,” says Jacob Jones, a professor of materials science and
engineering at NC State and principal investigator of the grant.

The bulk of the funding will be used to hire staff who will be dedicated to
reaching out to potential industry and educational partners to identify ways
that RTNN can address their specific nanotechnology needs.

For example, businesses might need help using nanotechnology to develop or
improve products, while educators may want to teach their students about
nanotechnology in their own classrooms. Whatever the reason, RTNN can provide
access to unique equipment, expertise and resources.

“This is a great win for our region,” said Nan Jokerst, the J. A. Jones
Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering and executive
director of the Shared Materials Instrumentation Facility at Duke. “We’ve
certainly proposed some innovative approaches with this program, which was
important for us to win this highly competitive grant.”

Duke has a wide array of powerful tools that can help advance innovations from
concept to prototype and, ultimately, through manufacturing for the
marketplace.

The Shared Materials Instrumentation Facility (SMIF) is an interdisciplinary
shared resource providing access to advanced materials characterization and
fabrication capabilities. Among other instruments, it is home to the South’s
only MicroCT scanner—which uses x-rays to create 3-D models of objects slice-
by-slice—that is freely available for outside use. It also hosts a state-of-
the-art cleanroom for nanotechnology research.

The Duke Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy Center provides access to high-field
nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) instrumentation, training in the use of NMR
methods and expert consultation on advanced NMR applications. NMR lets
researchers observe the specific quantum mechanical magnetic properties of the
atomic nuclei to study molecular physics, crystals, and non-crystalline
materials.

On the environmental side of nanotechnology, the Center for the Environmental
Implications of Nanotechnology (CEINT) is exploring the relationship between a
vast array of nanomaterials—from natural, to manufactured, to those produced
incidentally by human activities—and their potential environmental exposure,
biological effects, and ecological impacts.

Between NC State, Duke, and UNC-Chapel Hill, the RTNN has a suite of
facilities that will be enable the next generation of technology innovation to
outside groups. These facilities have capacities including nanofabrication of
electronics, textiles fabrication and characterization, sophisticated
materials characterization, and labs that evaluate interactions between
nanotechnologies and the environment. Through the RTNN partnership, an
ecosystem of both technology and educational innovation will be created and
fostered, spreading throughout the Research Triangle region, to the State of
North Carolina, and to the nation.

For more information or to explore the resources available in the region,
visit mse.ncsu.edu.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

