

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# New Engineering Building Will Lead in Sustainability, Low Energy Use

April 19, 2019

From roof to basement, the project sets a high level of achievement in
sustainable design.

From the recycling of construction waste during its three-year building
process to super-efficient heating ventilation and cooling (HVAC) system that
will serve it for years to come, Duke’s New Engineering Building sets a high
level of achievement in sustainable design.

“The New Engineering Building was designed to support Duke Engineering’s
innovations in education, research, and service to society,” said Mitchell
Vann, director of facilities, infrastructure and safety at Duke Engineering.
“But it also matches up with our longtime commitment to
sustainability—particularly reducing waste and energy consumption.”

> “An accomplished team with deep experience in sustainable design was brought
> together for this project.”
>
> **Bill McCraw**  
>  Duke Facilities Management

Scheduled to open in November 2020, the $115-million, 150,000-square-foot
building is now under construction off Research Drive near the nexus of Duke’s
central Abele Quad, the Duke University Medical Center and existing
engineering buildings.

It is rising across Telcom Drive from the Fitzpatrick Center, which opened in
2004 as one of Duke’s first facilities built to industry-wide sustainability
standards known as LEED. In 2008, the Duke SmartHome, which began as a project
of Duke Engineering undergraduates, opened the first live-in LEED Platinum
building on a college campus.

The Duke campus is now home to 44 LEED-certified buildings, with the New
Engineering Building among four currently under construction at Duke. Its
design and construction teams are aiming for at least silver certification.

## Sustainable Features Meet or Exceed LEED Specifications

The New Engineering Building has sustainable features that meet, and some
places, exceed LEED specs, said John Duffy, principal of the building’s
engineering firm, Affiliated Engineers Inc. AEI worked with the building’s
designers and architects, Bohlin Cywinski Jackson. The building contractor is
Skanska.

Duke Engineering and Duke University made sustainable design a high priority.

“An accomplished team with deep experience in sustainable design has been
brought together for this project,” said Bill McCraw, staff architect, and
project manager in Duke’s Facilities Management Department. “Bohlin Cywinski
Jackson and AEI both bring strong expertise in sustainable design, and Skanska
is well-versed and diligent in sustainable construction practices.”

While students, faculty, staff, and visitors will experience a comfortable
building interior filled with natural light throughout its five floors, much
of the sustainable technology will be working nearly silently, unseen within
building beams and mechanical spaces.

## Modeled in a Wind Tunnel

One of the most intensively designed systems is on the roof—the lab exhaust
system.

Detailed wind tunnel modeling, unusual for an academic building, was used to
precisely determine the lowest safe velocity for the systems that exhaust air
from labs –1,200 feet per minute (fpm) instead of an experience-based estimate
of 3,000 fpm without wind-tunnel modeling. The reduced exhaust velocity will
reduce the amount of electrical energy used for ventilation while ensuring
that both indoor lab air and the environment around the outside of the
building are safe.

> "The New Engineering Building matches Duke Engineering's longtime commitment
> to sustainability.”
>
> **Mitchell Vann**  
>  director of facilities, infrastructure and safety

For those tests, engineers at the testing lab in Colorado built a scale model
of the new building and nearby campus buildings, including the Fitzpatrick
Center, Perkins Library and portions of Duke University Medical Center, on a
turntable and then subjected it to wind from every direction.

The color of the roof itself is designed to lower energy use—its initial solar
reflectance index is a range-topping 107. The roof will reflect the sun’s
heat, reducing the amount of energy needed to keep the building cool.

Also innovative in the building’s design is the deployment throughout of
“chilled beams,” a heating and cooling system that relies on piped water and
less on energy-intensive powered fans.

That system is enhanced with a heat recovery system that, during heating
months, captures the heat in exhaust ventilation, reducing the reliance on
campus steam heat. During summer, the same exhaust air is used to pre-cool the
incoming air, reducing the reliance on campus chilled water.

## Conserving Energy and Water

Meanwhile, a system called Aircuity will every few minutes “sniff” air from
each laboratory, searching for compounds that might signal a chemical spill.
If its sensors detect something off, it will provide more fresh air by
automatically increasing the airflow in that lab.

The lighting in the building will employ only high-efficiency LED light
fixtures, that taken together will consume less than one watt of electrical
energy per square foot.

Taken together, all of the building's energy and atmosphere technologies will
be optimized for performance 30 percent beyond code requirements.

> In addition to sustainability, the building is designed to be
> environmentally resilient.

Water conservation is also embedded in the building design. Efficient plumbing
fixtures will be found throughout, and water-use reduction features go 25
percent beyond code requirements.

There are sustainable elements in the construction itself. More than 20
percent of the building will be made of recycled (pre- and post-consumer)
materials. More than 75 percent of construction waste will be recycled or
salvaged. And wood features installed in the building are coming from
certified sustainable sources.

About a fifth of the building’s materials—including the signature quarried
Duke Stone on its façade—comes from local sources.

Beyond building code, LEED and other sustainable requirements and goals, the
New Engineering Building was also designed to be environmentally resilient.
Unusual for an academic building, Duffy said, this building has two
independent electrical services.

“This is something that not even many hospitals have,” he said. “Two
independent services mean fewer interruptions when maintenance requires a
temporary shutdown, and dual service helps make the building resilient to
power failures caused by severe weather.”

## Learn More

  * On campus, see the detailed public information sign on Telcom Drive at the
    entrance to the Vinik Building.
  * View the sign online, and see live video progress of construction at
    **pratt.duke.edu/higher**

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

