

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# New Yoh Professorship Is a Gift to Future Engineers

June 25, 2019

Materials expert Catherine Brinson is named the first Sharon C. and Harold L.
Yoh, III Professor at Duke Engineering

When Harold “Hal” Yoh III E’83 graduated from Duke University in mechanical
engineering and materials science, the School of Engineering was housed in
only two buildings. Since then, in his capacity as a member of the Board of
Visitors and as president of the Engineering Alumni Council, Yoh has had a
front-row seat from which to see the many ways the school has grown and
changed.

Witnessing the growth of the school’s physical footprint has been rewarding,
said Yoh. But even more important, he emphasized, is the growth and change
that he has seen in the engineering community. Women now make up 35 percent of
the Duke Engineering undergraduate student body, compared to the national
average of 23 percent. And Duke Engineering’s graduate programs have climbed
in popularity with women, recently ranking among the top ten in _U.S. News &
World Report._

> “Engineering should be open to anyone who has a desire to pursue it.”
>
> Hal Yoh III E'83

It’s a shift that Yoh and his wife, Sharon Crutcher Yoh T’83 have supported
enthusiastically, especially since two of their daughters are Duke
graduates—one is an alumna of the Trinity College of Arts and Sciences, and
the other of the Pratt School of Engineering. “Engineering should be open to
anyone who has a desire to pursue it,” said Yoh. In 2006, the pair endowed a
scholarship to encourage female students to study engineering, in the hopes of
nurturing that diversity. “It’s important to us,” said Yoh. “And it’s
extremely important to society. Engineers must be able to collaborate and
communicate, to work in teams, to embrace diversity in thought. Those are the
things that result in success as an engineer.”

Since 1999, Hal Yoh has served as the chairman and chief executive officer of
Day & Zimmermann, a company specializing in construction and engineering,
operations and maintenance, staffing, security and defense for corporate and
government clients. The company employs 46,000 people globally and generates
$2.8 billion in annual revenue. It’s safe to say that he knows something about
successful engineering, and the role that inclusivity plays in it.

The Yohs were delighted, therefore, to learn that Catherine Brinson, a world-
renowned materials scientist at Duke, had been named the first Sharon C. and
Harold Yoh III Professor. The Yohs’ generous gift of a named professorship
will be instrumental in helping Duke Engineering maintain its forward momentum
in attracting new and diverse talent.

“The Yoh professorship was a key component of my recruitment to Duke,” said
Brinson, who was recently named chair of the Department of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science.

> "A named professorship shows Duke’s commitment to me."
>
> Catherine Brinson, Sharon C. and Harold Yoh III Professor

“I am leading large center research grants and projects that are visible on
the national and international stage, and a named professorship shows Duke’s
commitment to me—which translates into institutional commitment to the
research of my teams and helps us attract significant funding for our
innovative work. I feel it is especially important for women faculty to be in
the ranks of named professors. It equalizes the playing field, enables us to
attract even more enthusiastic diverse students and colleagues to our teams,
and encourages them to blaze their own trails.”

“Cate Brinson is an exceptional person who sets a great example for all
engineers— both female and male,” said Yoh. “These professorships do help
recruit and retain excellent individuals. It’s an important way of being able
to give to Duke, one that will benefit generations to come.”

More news from Duke Engineering

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

