

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Notable Alumna: Lucinda Camras

October 18, 2016

Profile of Lucinda Camras PhD'13, Biomedical Engineering, co-founder of Camras
Vision

_This is the ninth and final installment in aseries of profiles on notable
Duke Graduate School alumni. The series is part of the school's celebration of
its 90th anniversary in 2016. For more information about the anniversary,
visit gradschool.duke.edu/90._

_**Lucinda Camras**_

_PH.D.'13, BIOMEDICAL ENGINEERING_

The young-inventor gene runs in Lucinda Camras’s family.

Her grandfather, Marvin, developed magnetic-tape recording during his 20s, is
in the Inventors Hall of Fame, and received the National Medal of Technology
from President George H. W. Bush in 1990. Her father, Carl, was a noted
ophthalmologist who first conceived of a new class of glaucoma drugs while he
was a biochemistry major at Yale. That idea led to Xalatan, currently the
leading drug in glaucoma therapy.

Following in their footsteps, Camras began working in a glaucoma research lab
at 16, designed a new glaucoma therapy with her father as a sophomore at
Northwestern, cofounded a startup based on that idea during her first year as
a Ph.D. student at Duke, and now works as the company’s chief scientific
officer.

“The only proven treatment for glaucoma is to reduce eye pressure,” Camras
says. “So we set out to invent a device that is better than any existing
treatment to relieve eye pressure and save sight.”

What she and her father designed was the Camras Shunt, a device that, aside
from trying to improve the success rate of glaucoma surgery by doing a better
job of reducing eye pressure, would also be the first device that allows for
individualized treatment.

“Eye pressure cannot be adequately controlled with existing surgical
treatments mainly due to unpredictable tissue response in the current drainage
site,” Camras says. “Therefore, my father and I came up with a new surgical
approach and novel device to circumvent the issues with the traditional site
of drainage, leading to predictable, adjustable, and controllable outcomes.”

After her father died in 2009, Camras cofounded her startup in his honor to
continue refining their creation. Camras Vision, based in Research Triangle
Park, has received investor financing, multiple Small Business Innovation
Research awards from the National Science Foundation and the National
Institute of Health, and competitive small research loans from the North
Carolina Biotech Center. “I am passionate about creating something to truly
help people,” Camras said, “and saving sight is certainly a cause worth
fighting for!”

##### More on Camras

  * Interview with the Duke Start-up Challenge, which she was a finalist and
    won both Science & Healthcare and Women led Start-up Tracks in 2013
  * Q&A for The Graduate School’s Professional Development Blog

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

