

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Computational Imaging Increases Resolution of Eye Imaging Technology

August 27, 2019 | By Ken Kingery

Researchers use computational tools to enhance the resolution of optical
coherence tomography, potentially expanding its usefulness beyond the eye

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have devised a method for increasing
the resolution of optical coherence tomography (OCT) down to a single
micrometer scale in all directions. The new technique, called optical
coherence refraction tomography (OCRT), could improve medical images obtained
in the multibillion-dollar OCT industry for medical fields ranging from
cardiology to oncology.

The results appear in a paper published online on August 19 in the journal
Nature Photonics.

“An historic issue with OCT is that the depth resolution is typically several
times better than the lateral resolution,” said Joseph Izatt, the Michael J.
Fitzpatrick Professor of Engineering at Duke. “If the layers of imaged tissues
happen to be horizontal, then they’re well defined in the scan. But to extend
the full power of OCT for live imaging of tissues throughout the body, a
method for overcoming the tradeoff between lateral resolution and depth of
imaging was needed.”

OCT is an imaging technology analogous to ultrasound that uses light rather
than soundwaves. A probe shoots a beam of light into a tissue and, based on
the delays of the light waves as they bounce back, determines the boundaries
of the features within. To get a full picture of these structures, the process
is repeated at many horizontal positions over the surface of the tissue being
scanned.

Because OCT provides much better resolution of depth than lateral direction,
it works best when these features contain mostly flat layers. When objects
within the tissue have irregular shapes, the features become blurred and the
light refracts in different directions, reducing the image quality.

Previous attempts at creating OCT images with high lateral resolution have
relied on holography—painstakingly measuring the complex electromagnetic field
reflected back from the object. While this has been demonstrated, the approach
requires the sample and imaging apparatus to remain perfectly still down to
the nanometer scale during the entire measurement.

“This has been achieved in a laboratory setting,” said Izatt, who also holds
an appointment in ophthalmology at the Duke University School of Medicine.
“But it is very difficult to achieve in living tissues because they live,
breathe, flow and change.”

In the new paper, Izatt and his doctoral student, Kevin Zhou, take a different
approach. Rather than relying on holography, the researchers combine OCT
images acquired from multiple angles to extend the depth resolution to the
lateral dimension. Each individual OCT image, however, becomes distorted by
the light’s refraction through irregularities in the cells and other tissue
components. To compensate for these altered paths when compiling the final
images, the researchers needed to accurately model how the light is bent as it
passes through the sample.

To accomplish this computational feat, Izatt and Zhou turned to their
colleague Sina Farsiu, the Paul Ruffin Scarborough Associate Professor of
Engineering at Duke, who has a long history of using machine learning tools to
create better images for health care applications.

Working with Farsiu, Zhou developed a method using “gradient-based
optimization” to infer the refractive index within the different areas of
tissue based on the multi-angle images. This approach determines the direction
in which the given property—in this case the refractive index—needs to be
adjusted to create a better image. After many iterations, the algorithm
creates a map of the tissue’s refractive index that best compensates for the
light’s distortions. The method was implemented using TensorFlow, a popular
software library created by Google for deep learning applications.

“One of the many reasons why I find this work exciting is that we were able to
borrow tools from the machine learning community and apply them not only to
post-process OCT images, but also to combine them in a novel way and extract
new information,” said Zhou. “I think there are many applications of these
deep learning libraries such as TensorFlow and PyTorch, outside of the
standard tasks such as image classification and segmentation.”

For these proof-of-concept experiments, Zhou took tissue samples such as the
bladder or trachea of a mouse, placed them in a tube, and rotated the samples
360 degrees beneath an OCT scanner. The algorithm successfully created a map
of each sample’s refractive index, increasing the lateral resolution of the
scan by more than 300 percent while reducing the background noise in the final
image. While the study used samples already removed from the body, the
researchers believe OCRT can be adapted to work in a living organism.

“Rather than rotating the tissue, a scanning probe developed for this
technique could rotate the angle of the beam on the tissue surface,” said
Zhou.

Zhou is already investigating how much a corneal scan could be improved by the
technology with less than a 180-degree sweep, and the results appear
promising. If successful, the technique could be a boon to many medical
imaging needs.

“Capturing high-resolution images of the conventional outflow tissues in the
eye is a long-sought-after goal in ophthalmology,” said Farsiu, referring to
the eye’s aqueous humor drainage system. “Having an OCT scanner with this type
of lateral resolution would be very important for early diagnosis and finding
new therapeutic targets for glaucoma.”

“OCT has already revolutionized ophthalmic diagnostics by advancing
noninvasive microscopic imaging of the living human retina,” said Izatt. “We
believe that with further advances such as OCRT, the high impact of this
technology may be extended not only to additional ophthalmic diagnostics, but
to imaging of pathologies in tissues accessible by endoscopes, catheters, and
bronchoscopes throughout the body.”

This research was supported by the National Science Foundation, the National
Institutes of Health National Eye Institute, and the Google Faculty Research
Award.

“Optical Coherence Refraction Tomography,” Kevin C. Zhou, Ruobing Qian, Simone
Degan, Sina Farsiu and Joseph A. Izatt. Nature Photonics, Aug. 19, 2019. DOI:
10.1038/s41566-019-0508-1

# # #

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

