

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# One Duke Family: A Message from the Dean

June 1, 2020

A message from Dean Ravi Bellamkonda to the Duke Engineering community

_A message from Dean Ravi Bellamkonda to the Duke Engineering community, June
1, 2020:_

Dear Pratt community,

We come from all over the world and from all over the United States. Each of
us is unique and belongs to many other worlds and families. We value this
diversity as one of our greatest strengths as a community, and as a nation. So
it hurts to lose George Floyd. It hurts to have lost Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna
Taylor, and so many others in this shameful pattern of racial injustice and
violence. It hurts to see hurt express itself as it has been over the last few
days. It brings a sinking feeling to see these horrifying incidents happen
again and again. And we must ask, what can we do to stop this pattern?

We may as individuals feel small in the face of such daunting and entrenched
problems, but our words and actions can make a difference in our own
communities, and ripple outward. I am proud to be part of a university that is
dedicated to actively pursuing our values of trust, respect and inclusion, as
President Price wrote this weekend. As our own Duke Center for Truth, Racial
Healing and Transformation (TRHT) implores us, we must categorically and
unequivocally reject racism and the false idea of racial hierarchies, and work
toward transformational and sustainable change. You can find information about
engaging with TRHT at trht.duke.edu, and other resources and opportunities for
engagement on the Pratt website and Duke’s Diversity & Inclusion website.

Unquestionably there is much more work to do. As a Pratt community, I
challenge all of us to actively do our part to create the Duke and the world
where, even as we honor all of our different backgrounds and origins and
cultures, our most precious identity is the humanity we have in common with
each other. In this way, we can come together in doing the hard, necessary and
ultimately the most meaningful work of building the world that we want the
next generation to inherit.

So, dear Duke Engineering family, I am thinking of you personally. If you are
struggling during these tumultuous times, please be reminded that there are
many resources at Duke to help, including CAPS and the Personal Assistance
Service. Be well—we have work to do, but it’s work that we CAN do, and will be
proud to do to make the world more just for all.

Sincerely,

Prof. Ravi V Bellamkonda  
Vinik Dean of Engineering  
Duke University

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

