

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# New Pharmaceutical Target Reverses Osteoporosis in Mice

August 21, 2019 | By Ken Kingery

Duke researchers show that activating the adenosine receptor A2B not only
halts but reverses bone deterioration in mouse models of osteoporosis

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have discovered a pharmaceutical
target that, when activated, can reverse bone degradation caused by
osteoporosis in mouse models of the disease.

"The most widely used drugs currently approved by the FDA to treat
osteoporosis can prevent further bone loss, but they don't help rebuild the
bone," said Shyni Varghese, professor of biomedical engineering, mechanical
engineering and materials science, and orthopedics at Duke.

"We've discovered a biochemical receptor that, when activated, can do both,"
added Yu-Ru "Vernon" Shih, a research scientist in Varghese's lab and the
study's first author.

The findings appear online August 21 in the journal Science Advances.

Despite its apparent rigidity, bone is living tissue constantly being broken
down and replaced by the body. Osteoporosis occurs when old tissue is lost
faster than new tissue can be created, causing the bone to become weak and
brittle. The disease afflicts more than 40 million men and women in the United
States alone and is most common in older women past menopause.

In 2014, Varghese was studying the role of popular biomedical devices made of
calcium phosphate in promoting bone repair and regeneration. She discovered
that the biochemical adenosine acting on the A2B receptor plays a particularly
large role in promoting bone growth. It stood to reason that a lack of the
chemical might play a role in the development of osteoporosis, so Varghese
decided to find out.

In the study, Varghese and her research team studied mice that had had their
ovaries removed to mimic post-menopause osteoporosis. They looked at the
expression levels of two enzymes that help produce adenosine as well as the
levels of adenosine traveling between cells. As predicted, they discovered
that the mice's lack of estrogen was causing all three to plummet.

The researchers then tested to see if increasing the levels of adenosine in
the mice would help reverse the damaging effects of the disease. But rather
than pumping in adenosine itself, they injected a non-hormonal small molecule
produced by Bayer that activates the A2B receptor.

"The mice that received the drug were completely cured," said Varghese. "Their
bones were just as healthy as the control group without osteoporosis."

While the discovery of a pharmaceutical target capable of reversing
osteoporosis is exciting, creating a small molecule drug that can activate it
without side effects is a difficult task. Adenosine is created naturally
throughout the entire body and has many roles such as modulating neurons and
regulating blood flow to various organs. Researchers can't simply dump a bunch
of it into the bloodstream to stop bone degradation without side effects.

But with the A2B receptor identified, Varghese and others can start looking
for ways to deliver activators to bones without flooding other areas of the
body. For example, one of Varghese's students is beginning to study ways of
tethering adenosine-like molecules to carriers that target bone tissue. Her
lab is also pursuing a sort of bandage that can deliver growth-supporting
drugs directly to damaged or broken bones.

This research was supported by the National Institutes of Health
(R01-AR063184, R01-AR071552).

"Dysregulation of Ectonucleotidase-Mediated Extracellular Adenosine During
Postmenopausal Bone Loss." Yu-Ru V. Shih, Mengqian Liu, Seong Keun Kwon,
Masayuki Iida, Ya Gong, Nivedita Sangaj, Shyni Varghese. Science Advances,
2019. DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.aax1387

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

