

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Oxygen Key to Containing Coal Ash Contamination

April 13, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

Potentially overlooked factor could affect safety of coal ash disposal

As energy companies decide what to do with aging coal ash disposal facilities
in North Carolina and across the nation, they may be overlooking a fundamental
but potentially critical variable—oxygen.

In a new study appearing in the April issue of Applied Geochemistry,
researchers from Duke University demonstrate that the level of oxygen in a
coal ash disposal site can greatly affect how much toxic selenium and arsenic
can be leached from the system.

“The tests that the Environmental Protection Agency relies on consider
variables like the pH of the water, but they don’t look at whether the system
is aerobic or anaerobic,” said Heileen Hsu-Kim, the Mary Milus Yoh and Harold
L. Yoh, Jr. Associate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering. “We
wanted to demonstrate that oxygenation actually matters a lot, especially for
arsenic and selenium.”

In the wake of a 2014 coal ash spill into North Carolina’s Dan River from a
ruptured Duke Energy drainage pipe, the question of what to do with other
aging coal ash retention ponds and future waste has been a hotly debated
topic.

Duke Energy currently plans to dig up 24 of its 36 ponds in the Carolinas. But
the 12 remaining ponds without a cleanup plan hold more than 70 percent of the
108 million tons of ash held in North Carolina ponds.

One option is to essentially turn the ponds into a landfill by removing the
water, capping the remaining waste with a top liner and covering it all with
soil.

“Some of these ponds did not have bottom liners when they were originally
constructed, so they’ll be susceptible to leaking to groundwater even if they
are covered on top,” said Hsu-Kim, who also holds an appointment in Duke’s
Nicholas School of the Environment. “When you cap a site, you’re separating it
from air. And if the buried waste goes anaerobic, it could enhance the
leaching of some elements, leading to more contamination than expected.”

In the study, Hsu-Kim and her graduate student Grace Schwartz set up a series
of microcosms—small-scale laboratory replicas of an environment. They then
looked at how much arsenic and selenium leached out of the system both with
and without oxygen. Both contaminants are potential problems for aquatic
wildlife, and arsenic can be cancerous to humans.

The tests showed that with oxygen, the levels of selenium leaching are much
higher than that of arsenic. But that trend flips when the system becomes
anaerobic—there is an increase in the leaching of arsenic and a decrease for
selenium.

Hsu-Kim points out that this result is not surprising given the chemistry of
the two elements, and previous projects not related to coal ash sites have
demonstrated these results in the real world. The study points out that this
could be happening in coal ash sites as well.

“I’m trying to figure out if anyone is thinking about the fact that they’re
changing the oxygen conditions within the ash site by covering it,” said Hsu-
Kim. “This research suggests that some of the proposed methods for ash ponds
closure in North Carolina may not be a slam dunk solution to the problem.”

This research was supported by the National Science Foundation (CBET-1235661)
and the Environmental Research and Education Foundation.

The article can be accessed free until May 3, 2016 at the following website:
http://authors.elsevier.com/a/1SiWp38rcSbdX9

###

“Leaching potential and redox transformations of arsenic and selenium in
sediment microcosms with fly ash,” Grace E. Schwartz, Nelson Rivera, Sung-Woo
Lee, James M. Harrington, James C. Hower, Keith E. Levine, Avner Vengosh,
Heileen Hsu-Kim. Applied Geochemistry, 2016. DOI:
10.1016/j.apgeochem.2016.02.013

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

