

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Pajic, Zavlanos Part of the New Air Force Center of Excellence

June 6, 2019

New center will focus on assured autonomy in contested environments for a wide
variety of Air Force systems

Two faculty members from Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering are
part of a new consortium that will pioneer the development of autonomous
technologies for the United States Air Force to enable assured autonomous
missions in complex, uncertain and adversarial conditions.

The recently awarded consortium, called the Air Force Office of Scientific
Research (AFOSR) Center of Excellence (CoE) for Assured Autonomy in Contested
Environments, is led by the University of Florida, partnering with Duke, the
University of Texas at Austin and the University of California Santa Cruz.

Joining the center from Duke are Miroslav Pajic, the Nortel Networks Assistant
Professor of electrical and computer engineering, and Michael Zavlanos, the
Mary Milus Yoh and Harold L. Yoh, Jr. Associate Professor of mechanical
engineering and materials science.

The sponsorship will cover an initial two-year period of $2 million, with
extensions up to a total of six years and $6 million dollars. The consortium
will collaborate with the Munitions (RW), Sensors (RY), and Space Vehicles
(RV) Directorates within the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL).

“This Center of Excellence is the scientific embodiment of basic research for
assured and trustworthy autonomy of the U.S. Air Force’s future cyber-physical
systems operating in contested environments,” said Frederick A. Leve, program
officer for the Dynamics and Controls Program at AFOSR.

"Autonomous systems must execute high-level mission plans with verifiable
assurances despite operating in uncertain, potentially adversarial
environments, where the integrity and availability of sensor information and
communications may be challenged,” continued Pajic. “Consequently, the
center’s efforts will focus on development of analysis, design and synthesis
techniques and tools for potentially resource-constrained systems with complex
dynamics to enable their autonomous operation even in highly-contested
adversarial environments.”

Pajic’s research at Duke focuses on high-assurance system design methodologies
for cyber-physical systems (CPS), which feature tight interaction of computing
with the physical world. CPS are the next generation of safety-critical
embedded control systems, in domains spanning from autonomous vehicles,
industrial automation and advanced manufacturing, to medical devices and
systems, energy-efficient buildings and smart cities.

Pajic will lead the center’s efforts to design attack-resilient autonomous
systems for the Air Force. He and his students will develop algorithms and
design methods to ensure that these systems are capable of successfully
performing their missions, with no human supervision, even under a range of
cyber and physical attacks.

Zavlanos’s work at Duke centers on creating algorithms that allow groups of
robots to work autonomously and collaboratively toward completing complex
tasks in unknown environments. Within the new consortium, he will focus on
tasks that extend beyond the classical point-to-point navigation and can
capture temporal and Boolean requirements. For example, they can be sequencing
or coverage, data gathering, intermittent communication or persistent
surveillance, and can be captured using formal languages.

These methods are notoriously computationally expensive, especially for large
numbers of robots, so his research will emphasize methods that are scalable
and distributed. Reinforcement learning methods will also be developed for
optimal decision-making in unknown environments.

The AFOSR Center of Excellence will be the first to look at assured autonomy
in adversarial environments. The center will function as a hub where ideas and
people are freely engaged, and exchanges flow between military laboratories
and universities. Participating universities and military laboratories will
jointly publish the research results.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

