

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Payne Named Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry

January 5, 2021 | Elizabeth Witherspoon

MEMS Associate Professor Christine Payne recognized for outstanding
contributions to chemistry with research on interaction between materials and
cells

Christine Payne, the Yoh Family Associate Professor in the Thomas Lord
Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science (MEMS) at Duke
University, has been named a Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC) in
the United Kingdom.

The 175-year-old RSC confers the award upon members nominated by their peers
who have made an outstanding contribution to the advancement of the chemical
sciences.

"It's really an honor to be named a Fellow of the RSC. I look forward to
taking my group out to celebrate once it is safe to do so," said Payne.

Payne, who joined the Duke faculty in 2018, conducts research into the
molecular mechanisms by which cells interact with materials, specifically
nanoparticles and nanowires. The goal of her research is to understand how
cells interact with materials and then use this knowledge to better regulate
human exposure to nanomaterials and to predict nanomaterial-protein
interactions, thereby increasing the pace and reducing the cost of
nanomaterial development.

Current projects include studying the pulmonary response to combined
nanomaterial-ozone exposures, funded by the National Institutes of Health, and
developing a library of protein-nanoparticle interactions through automated
sample handling, funded by the National Science Foundation. She is also part
of the NSF-Simons Foundation Southeast Center for Mathematics and Biology.

Payne serves as the director of graduate studies in MEMS. She also is a Bass
Fellow, a Duke University honor bestowed in 2020 for her excellence in
teaching and research; is a member of the Steering Committee of the Duke
Materials Initiative; a member of the Fitzpatrick Institute for Photonics and
the Integrated Toxicology & Environmental Health Program; and holds a
secondary appointment in the Department of Chemistry.

## Related News

May 04, 2020

### Scanning Electron Microscope Images: Coming to a Screen Near You

May 30, 2018

### Mathematics-Bioscience Partnership to Explore Cellular Transport

September 21, 2017

### Christine Payne: Investigating Interactions between Cells and Engineered
Materials

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

