

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Peloso Family Seed Fund Zeroes in on Environmental Engineering

November 25, 2019

New seed fund supports projects with potential to achieve impactful results at
the intersection of engineering and the environment

Getting a research project off the ground is a bit like building a snowball. A
researcher’s early-stage, or “seed” grants—what we might think of as the first
few mittens full of snow—really count. They allow a researcher to explore a
fundamental idea and build a solid proof of concept, and they stabilize the
project as it grows.

These types of grants are arguably among the most needed at Duke, said Philip
Duhart, associate director of major gifts for Duke Engineering. “Seed funding
is instrumental in supporting researchers as they develop new ideas, but it
can be hard to come by from traditional sources. Once a project makes it past
this early stage, however, it can often qualify for federal grants or venture
capital support. Gifts that fuel this early research are extremely helpful to
build that pipeline for continued external investment.”

The new Peloso Family Environmental Innovation Research Seed Fund, created
with a gift from Missy Peloso BME’79 P’05, Robert Peloso P’05, and Maggie
Peloso ’05, M.E.M.’06, PhD ’10, supports projects with potential to achieve
impactful results at the intersection of engineering and the environment.

The fund, administered by Duke’s Department of Civil & Environmental
Engineering in cooperation with faculty at the Nicholas School of the
Environment, provides between $10,000 to $25,000 of critical early- or mid-
stage support to faculty and student researchers.

> The fund’s first recipients are civil and environmental engineering faculty
> members Mark Wiesner and Michael Bergin. The pair are studying how
> particulate air pollution obscures the surface of solar panels.

The fund’s first recipients are civil and environmental engineering faculty
members Mark Wiesner and Michael Bergin. The pair are studying how particulate
air pollution obscures the surface of solar panels—a process that results in
solar energy losses of up to 40 percent in regions with the highest levels of
dust or air pollution concentrations, and cause economic losses in the tens of
billions of dollars every year.

In spite of these significant impacts, there have been only a handful of
studies linking pollution and solar energy production.

Wiesner and Bergin aim to expand the understanding of that relationship, and
to determine cost-effective strategies for mitigating the effects of air
pollution on solar energy efficiency. Among their goals are to develop
recommendations for efficient cleaning strategies and to design new
hydrophobic, hydrophilic, and photo-catalytic solar panel coatings that are
more resistant to pollutants.

The Peloso Family Environmental Innovation Research Seed Fund award will
support doctoral student Hanna Varga as she works to better understand
particle deposition processes and to help develop and field-test new solar
panel coatings, as part of an interdisciplinary team.

“Support from the Peloso gift will catalyze work in this important area,” said
Wiesner. “We’ll be able to create collaborations with key governmental and
industry partners, allowing us to develop proposals for extramural funding in
the future.”

## Related News

February 05, 2019

### Wiesner Appointed to U.S. EPA Science Advisory Board

May 17, 2017

### The Impact of Trash Burning on Air Quality

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

