

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Perpetual “Ice Water”: Stable Solid-Liquid State Revealed in Nanoparticles

August 3, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

Gallium nanoparticles that are both solid and liquid are stable over a range
of 1000 degrees Fahrenheit

Imagine pouring a glass of ice water and having the ice cubes remain unchanged
hours later, even under a broiler’s heat or in the very back corner of the
freezer.

That’s fundamentally the surprising discovery recently made by an
international group of researchers led by an electrical engineering professor
at Duke University in a paper published online in _Nature Matter_ on July 25,
2016. But instead of a refreshing mixture of H2O in a pint glass, the
researchers were working with the chemical element gallium on a nanoscopic
scale.

Gallium is a soft, silvery bluish metal at room temperature. Raise the heat to
86 degrees Fahrenheit, however, and it melts. Drop the temperature to subzero
levels, and it becomes hard and brittle. But when gallium nanoparticles sit on
top of a sapphire surface, they form a solid core surrounded by a liquid outer
layer. The discovery marks the first time that this stable phase coexistence
phenomenon at the nanoscale has ever been directly observed.

“This odd combination of a liquid and solid state existing together has been
predicted theoretically and observed indirectly in other materials in narrow
bands of specific temperatures,” said April Brown, the John Cocke Professor of
Electrical and Computer Engineering at Duke. “But this finding was very
unexpected, especially because of its stability over such a large temperature
range.”

The temperature range Brown is referring to covers more than 1,000 degrees
Fahrenheit, all the way from -135 to 980 degrees.

“At a fundamental level, this finding reveals the need to reconsider all our
presumptions about solid–liquid equilibrium,” wrote Andrés Aguado, professor
of theoretical, atomic and optical physics at the University of Valladolid in
Spain, in a _News and Views_ piece appearing in the same edition of _Nature
Matter_. “At a more applied level, the results hold much promise for future
nanotechnology applications.”

Gallium is an important element in electronics and is used in microwave
circuits, high-speed switching circuits and infrared circuits. The discovery
of this novel part-solid, part-liquid nanoparticle phase could be useful in
ultraviolet sensors, molecular sensing devices and enhanced photodetectors.

Brown hopes this work is just the tip of the iceberg, as she is planning on
creating a facility at Duke to investigate what other nanoparticles might have
similar unexpected phase qualities.

The research was conducted in conjunction with researchers at the Institute of
Nanotechnology-CNR-Italy, the University of Western Australia, the University
of Melbourne and Johannes Kepler University Linz.

“Thermally stable coexistence of liquid and solid phases in gallium
nanoparticles.” Maria Losurdo, Alexandra Suvorova, Sergey Rubanov, Kurt
Hingerl and April S. Brown. Nature Materials, 2016. DOI: 10.1038/nmat4705

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

