

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Personalizing the Master's Degree

May 6, 2019

Duke BME’s MS and MEng programs enable students to customize their learning
experience and chase down opportunities

Leah Machlin didn’t expect to be working in an old tobacco factory in downtown
Durham after graduating with a degree in biomedical engineering. With its
façade still painted with advertisements for Liggett & Myers cigarettes, the
Chesterfield building doesn’t appear to have changed much since its
construction in 1948. But inside it’s a different world––one with renovated
lab spaces where biomedical engineers, like Machlin, can tackle cutting-edge
issues in modern medicine.

Machlin is a research associate with Element Genomics, a biotech startup
founded by Duke University faculty members Charles Gersbach, Greg Crawford,
Tim Reddy and Kris Wood. Gersbach, the Rooney Family Associate Professor of
Biomedical Engineering, and his collaborators founded the company in 2015
after developing novel technology to characterize the non-coding genome,
opening up new classes of drug targets for common and rare diseases.

“I initially started working at Element Genomics as an intern in the summer of
2017,” says Machlin (MEng ’17), now a full-time employee at the company. “We
are applying CRISPR technology to look for an epigenomic, genomic, or drug-
based fix for rare diseases. It was a really exciting opportunity that engaged
both my research background and the skills I gained through my master’s
education.”

With both Master of Engineering (MEng) and Master of Science (MS) options, the
master’s program in Duke BME offers paths tailored to students’ professional
goals and interests, whether in industry or academia. Most graduates go on to
careers in the public or private sector, working at startups, like Element
Genomics, or larger companies like Amgen, Boston Scientific and Stryker.

About 25 percent opt to continue their education in PhD programs, both at Duke
or at schools like Columbia University, the University of Pennsylvania School
of Medicine, Yale University and the University of California, Berkeley.

Although both programs prepare students for success in industry, Duke’s Master
of Engineering program is expressly geared toward students, like Machlin, who
want to develop business leadership and management expertise in addition to
technical skills. To graduate, MEng students are required to complete core
business courses as well as an industry internship, while students in the
Master of Science program complete a research or thesis project.

But MEng students can still gain research experience through their independent
study courses. Machlin, for example, says she essentially created a hybrid
MEng program for herself by adding a large research project. “I presented a
project proposal when I was in Ashutosh Chilkoti’s Introduction to
Biomolecular Engineering course, and both the TA and Dr. Chilkoti encouraged
me to consider it as a research opportunity,” says Machlin, who joined the
Chilkoti lab to work with elastin-like polypeptides to study a protein
associated with Alzheimer’s Disease.

“Dr. Chilkoti connected me with Charlie Gersbach, and that helped me land the
internship and job at Element Genomics,” she says. “I liked the combination of
exposure to business and management without sacrificing the science. I
wouldn’t have had the opportunity to work at a company like Element without
that.” Duke BME master’s students can also enhance their degrees with
additional training in in-demand specialties through a growing array of
certificate programs.

“Students interested in optical imaging technologies have been able to earn a
certificate in photonics, and we also just opened a certificate in
biotechnology, which teaches students cutting-edge techniques for modeling,
analyzing and designing molecular and cellular systems,” says Professor Fan
Yuan, the director of master’s studies in Duke BME. “We’re proud to offer a
collaborative and interdisciplinary curriculum with courses covering business
and management, product development, and two-semester design that includes
partnerships with the Duke University Medical Center.”

The collaborative curriculum was especially beneficial for students like
Jordan Ekaidat (MEng’16), who joined a biomechanical research project with
faculty in Duke’s mechanical engineering and materials science department,
where he worked on a sensor that could analyze human running form. This
research experience, coupled with his business classes, was instrumental to
landing his internship and subsequent job at Woo Sports, an action sports
startup in Boston.

“I used every skill I learned in the business and leadership classes, which
really helped me navigate the professional world and life at a startup,” says
Ekaidat. “Very few schools have the kind of collaborative environment that
would have allowed me to go outside the department to gain that biomechanical
experience, but Duke BME really encouraged it.”

The variety of programs and opportunities make Duke’s master’s programs fairly
self-directed, which many students identified as a benefit they hadn’t
considered before attending Duke.

“The BME master’s students were only required to take a life science course
and a math course, but other than that you have lots of flexibility in taking
biomedical engineering classes and other technical electives to fill the
credit requirement, so you can really decide your own path,” says Stacey Kuo
(MS’15). “I could ask myself which courses were going to benefit my
development towards the career I wanted.”

This mindset was also honed through Kuo’s research project in Jennifer West’s
lab, where she studied tissue engineering.

“Dr. West was a great person to have as my PI because she really pushed me to
make sure I was getting the most out of my research experience,” says Kuo, now
an SQA Engineer at Align Technology in RTP. “The exercise of constantly asking
myself these tough questions was a big growth experience for me, but it also
prepared me to be more self-motivated in my career.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

