

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Lasers Make Sound Waves That Reveal Live Views of Organs in Action

May 10, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

Full-body scans of small animals achieved in real-time with high resolution

Biomedical engineers are now able to take a live, holistic look at the inner
workings of a small animal with enough resolution to see active organs,
flowing blood, circulating melanoma cells and firing neural networks.

The technique dubbed "single-impulse photoacoustic computed tomography (SIP-
PACT)" uses the best of both light and ultrasound to peer inside living
animals. Researchers at the Optical Imaging Laboratory led by Caltech’s Lihong
Wang have shown this hybrid imaging technology breaks the longstanding
resolution and speed barriers in small-animal whole-body imaging. It provides
a full cross-sectional view of a small animal's internal functions in real
time.

The results appear online on May 10, 2017, in Nature Biomedical Engineering.
Wang conducted this research while the Optical Imaging Laboratory was located
at Washington University in St. Louis. He moved the lab to Caltech in January
2017.

"Photoacoustic imaging has been highly expected to get real-time whole-body
imaging of a small animal with rich functional information," said Junjie Yao,
assistant professor of biomedical engineering at Duke University, who was an
engineer in the Optical Imaging Laboratory when the research was conducted.
"With this advance, researchers can easily watch as drugs are distributed
throughout an animal and track how different organs respond."

Photoacoustic imaging combines a variety of imaging techniques into one
platform.

Traditional light-based microscopy provides fast, high-resolution images that
retain important functional information based on the wavelengths of light
(i.e., colors) that the tissue absorbs, reflects or emits. The significant
amount of light that scatters as it travels through tissue, however, limits
the depth of light microscopy to just a few millimeters.

Ultrasound waves easily travel through tissue, providing a much more in-depth
view, but do not have the ability to read tissue's chemical components and
miss much of the important information that light carries with it. Magnetic
resonance imaging (MRI) can also see deep into tissue, but requires a strong
magnetic field and often takes seconds to minutes to form an image. X-rays and
positron emission tomography (PET) deliver too much radiation to the subject
to be practical over long time periods.

Photoacoustic imaging uses powerful but extremely short laser bursts that
safely cause cells to emit ultrasound waves, which then travel unimpeded back
through the tissue.

"It's basically compressing one second's worth of summer-noon sunlight over a
finger nail area into a single nanosecond," said Yao, who has been working
with the technology for nearly a decade. "When the laser hits a cell, the
energy causes it to heat up a tiny bit and expand instantaneously, creating an
ultrasonic wave. It's like the difference between pushing on something to
slowly move it and striking it to cause a vibration."

The result is an imaging technique that can peer up to five centimeters into
the typical biological tissue with sub-millimeter-level resolution while
retaining the functional information provided by traditional optical
microscopy. For example, melanin absorbs near-infrared light, while blood's
reaction to light differs depending on how much oxygen it is carrying.

"This penetration range enables functional imaging of whole bodies of small
animals. This capability is expected to enable all kinds of biological studies
in small animals and to accelerate drug discovery," said Lihong Wang, the Bren
Professor of Medial Engineering and Electrical Engineering at CalTech.

In the new paper, Yao and colleagues led by Dr. Lihong Wang at the California
Institute of Technology add the highly desired speed and panoramic views to
the imaging technology's repertoire. They have built a circular ultrasonic
detector and a fast data-acquisition system that can triangulate the origin of
an ultrasonic wave from anywhere within the body of a small animal. And with
the help of a fast laser that operates within the safety limit, the upgraded
device can image the full cross-section of an adult rat 50 times per second,
providing detailed movies of its inner workings with 120-micrometer
resolution.

"The panoramic effect provides information from all directions and all angles,
so you do not lose any information from each laser shot," said Yao. "You can
see the dynamics of the body in action -- the pumping of the heart, the
dilation of arteries, the functioning of various tissues."

In the paper, Yao and colleagues describe how they use these abilities to
track cancerous melanoma cells traveling through blood vessels of a mouse.
They also demonstrate the ability to watch entire neural networks firing in
real time.

"This approach is especially powerful because it does not rely on the
injection of any type of contrast agent," said Yao. "You can be sure that
changes are not caused by foreign variables. We think that this technology
holds great potential for both pre-clinical imaging and clinical translation."

This work was supported by the US National Institutes of Health (DP1 EB016986,
R01 CA186567, U01 NS090579, R01 EB016963, S10 RR026922).

"Single-impulse Panoramic Photoacoustic Computed Tomography of Small-Animal
Whole-body Dynamics at High Spatiotemporal Resolution." Lei Li, Liren Zhu,
Cheng Ma, Li Lin, Junjie Yao, Lidai Wang, Konstantin Maslov, Ruiying Zhang,
Wanyi Chen, Junhui Shi, Lihong V. Wang. Nature Biomedical Engineering, 2017.
DOI: 10.1038/s41551-017-0071

###

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

