

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Photonics Symposium Shines Spotlight on Collaborative Research

March 27, 2017 | By Michaela Kane

Offering collaborations and seed funding, MEDx has helped Duke biophotonics
researchers create some exciting new connections to further their work

Medical advances rarely result from one scientist working in isolation.
Instead, discoveries occur because of collaborative efforts between engineers
and physicians, with each team member bringing unique experience and ideas to
the development process. With a focus on “Biophotonics for the Medicine of the
Future,” the 2017 Fitzpatrick Institute for Photonics (FIP) Symposium
highlighted some shining successes from Pratt School of Engineering and School
of Medicine teams, including the development of a transformative imaging tool
for eye examination and surgery and a novel portable colposcope for cervical
cancer screening. ( **Read more about the 2017 FIP Symposium**)

But just how do such successes get their start? A special session at the
symposium highlighted how some Duke engineers are finding inspiration for new
research directions with medical school colleagues through the schools’ joint
Duke MEDx initiative. Offering both informal opportunities to meet and chat
with potential collaborators and seed funding to kick-start new projects, MEDx
has helped Duke biophotonics researchers create some exciting new connections
to further their work.

## Feedback for Cancer Screening Devices and Diagnostic Tools

Jenna Mueller, a postdoctoral associate in Professor Nimmi Ramanujam’s Tissue
Optical Spectroscopy Laboratory, discussed the development of a portable
cervical cancer screening device, called the Pocket colposcope. Mueller
emphasized the importance of feedback from the physicians who would ultimately
use the diagnostic tool, which has allowed the team to improve the design with
each iteration. Team leaders have organized a MEDx-sponsored colloquium series
to bring engineers and physicians together to discuss challenges in cancer
screening and prevention in primary care, and are now working on a cross-
school collaboration funded by a collaborative seed grant to develop an
algorithm to automate cervical cancer screening.

## Connecting Non-Invasive Tools and Clinical Studies

Adam Wax, a professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering, elaborated
on his work with Dr. Katherine Garman and her team at the Duke Cancer
Institute. The researchers, who connected through MEDx, are investigating how
devices using low-coherence interferometry to detect scattered light through
sub-surface tissue samples can potentially act as non-invasive screening tools
for esophageal cancers. “Katie is examining the basic origins of these
precancerous conditions, and we have a way of detecting their presence in
vivo,” Wax said. “It’s exciting to work with her and connect basic science
back to the clinical studies. We hope we may be able to find the biomarkers
that will help identify which people with Barrett’s esophagus will progress to
cancer.”

## Designing Less-Invasive Testing for Gastroesophageal Diseases

__Xiling Shen, an associate professor in biomedical engineering, spoke about
his burgeoning work with BME’s Junjie Yao and Duke Health clinicians to
develop improved, less-invasive testing for gastroesophageal reflux disease
(GERD) and colonoscopies. Shen discussed how conversations with physicians
Amit Patel and David Lehman at a MEDx-sponsored dinner colloquium helped
jumpstart ideas about combining wireless pH monitoring with esophageal
impedance pH studies into a single tool to aid doctors in their diagnoses of
GERD. The envisioned device would be less restricting for patients while
enabling longer-term monitoring to improve the accuracy of screening results.

## Detecting DNA Using Non-Invasive Cancer Diagnostic Tests

Collaborators Matthew Kirley, a research scientist in the Department of
Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE), and Dr. Steven Brousell, a surgery
resident in the Division of Urology, presented their vision for a urine-based
diagnostic test to screen for known genetic anomalies in specific cancers.
Working with ECE Professor Jeff Glass and urologist Dr. Brant Inman, the team
hopes to translate electrochemical detection of DNA into tool to replace
invasive cystoscopy for cancer screening.

## Using Ultrasound to Boost Cancer Treatment

Pei Zhong, the Anderson-Rupp Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science, discussed his work with Dr. Herbert Kim Lyerly and team in the
Department of Surgery to study whether high intensity focused ultrasound
(HIFU) can boost the effectiveness of immunotherapy for breast and prostate
cancers. With support from a MEDx pilot project grant, the team is working to
see if HIFU, a non-invasive technique for burning away or mechanically lysing
tissue within the body, can affect molecular pathways that regulate cancer
immune response, providing a one-two punch when combined with immunotherapy
drugs. “We’ll be working together to identify the most effective approach to
combine the therapies for maximum antitumor effect,” said Zhong. “The project
has great potential.”

After the presentations, the researchers held a panel discussion where they
explained how MEDx has served as a bridge between engineering and medicine,
allowing a greater exchange of ideas between different scientific fields.

“As an engineer, it seems like all we ever do is work in the lab to solve
problems, and clinicians find problems every day,” said Shen. “MEDx highlights
the value of bringing people from different areas together to find solutions,
and it’s amazing what has come out of that conversation.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

