

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Piecing Together a Time Capsule to Mars

April 3, 2014 | By Ken Kingery

A Duke University junior is leading a cohort of students from across the
nation on a mission to Mars—and she’s hoping the rest of the world will join
them for the journey

Growing up, Emily Briere didn’t have an adequate outlet to pour her enthusiasm
for space exploration into. That’s a problem she intends to fix for the
generation growing up behind her.

“I am currently one of the leaders of a space endeavor that we believe could
refocus the space race and remind ourselves what this is all about,” said
Briere, a junior in mechanical engineering and materials science at Duke,
during a recent speech in Washington, D.C. “It is one that, like sending man
to the moon, involves technologies that do not yet exist and challenges yet to
be conquered. It is one with a goal of involving every country in the world
and providing an opportunity to embrace as many people as possible, of all
ages.”

Those three lines summarize the main message behind Briere’s presentation to
the National Space Club during its 57th Annual Goddard Memorial Dinner Awards
on March 7, 2014. She was invited to speak as this year’s recipient of the
Goddard Memorial Dinner Keynote Scholarship, an honor she earned through a
national search and competition that also includes a $10,000 award.

The honor brought the opportunity to speak before 2,000 of the best and
brightest that the space industry has to offer—and to raise awareness of a new
endeavor she co-founded to try to grab the world’s attention and point it
toward the stars once more.

The project, dubbed Time Capsule to Mars, aims to raise money through crowd-
sourced contributions and corporate donations to design, launch and land a
time capsule on the surface of Mars using emerging technologies. The hope is
that people around the world interested in space can join the mission, track
its progress through its website and let their imagination and potential
skyrocket.

“People around the world will be able to send in photos, audio and video, and
we’ll encode it on our time capsule that will last literally millions of
years,” says Briere. “We also want to make it an educational vehicle for
students who can track the capsule’s trajectory online and work on curriculum-
based projects about the spacecraft.”

Briere, who is one of Glamour's Top 10 College Women 2014, believes that space
exploration has become a prize to win rather than an awe-inspiring journey for
the betterment of all mankind, and she hopes the budding project will tip the
scales in the other direction.

She’s drawing a lot of people to her cause.

The project was dreamed up with co-founder Eric Knight, president and founder
of Remarkable Technologies, Inc., along with her father and little brother
after the 2013 Humans 2 Mars summit around a dinner table at a TGI Fridays.
Since then, Briere has teamed up with students at the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology’s Space Propulsion Lab, where the project is centered. She has
also recruited a handful of Duke Fuqua School of Business students, including
her twin brother Nick, to handle the economic side of the project.

As the mission matures, Briere plans to distribute all aspects of the
project—from aerodynamics to propulsion—to student-led teams at universities
across the nation from Yale to the California Institute of Technology. She
also hopes to attract corporate sponsors such as Squarespace, which has
already donated web development and hosting to the mission.

Briere is one of Glamour's Top 10 College Women 2014.

Landing a database that literally lasts millions of years on the surface of
Mars also requires a bit of funding—about $24 million worth, by Briere’s
estimation. While that may seem like a lot, it’s a paltry sum compared to the
billions of dollars spent on NASA missions to extraterrestrial bodies. The
team plans to launch a crowd-sourced funding initiative in the coming months
where people from around the world can purchase space on the time capsule’s
databanks. And after giving a speech to thousands of space industry luminaries
and executives, Briere hopes she has attracted the attention of larger
investors as well.

It’s a feat that will take a lot of time and effort to accomplish—indeed, some
of the technology the project is planning on using is still being developed
and might not be tested in an actual mission until being deployed on the Time
Capsule to Mars. But it’s a goal that Briere hopes millions across the world
will grab hold of and help make a reality.

“We’re currently taking name suggestions for the mission and have gotten
entries from all over the world. We just want something that everyone can be
part of because that didn’t really exist when I was growing up,” said Briere
in an interview before her recent speech. “I’m hoping to make some new
connections while I’m in Washington and get more people in the space industry
involved. It’s a really great opportunity.”

Watch Briere’s speech on YouTube or visit the Time Capsule to Mars' website to
learn more about the project.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

