

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# The Pioneers of 3D Ultrasound

April 1, 2018

How advancements in ultrasound technology paved the way for future innovation

Most people are familiar with ultrasound as a tool that allows pregnant
couples to see their baby before it’s born. Thirty years ago, ultrasound
images typically showed vague black and gray shapes, and it could be difficult
to distinguish between a baby’s nose or foot without a doctor’s explanation.
But today, these images are so clear that new parents can even see their baby
sucking on its thumb.

This difference in clarity is due to the use of 3D ultrasound, created by Olaf
von Ramm, Stephen Smith and John Oxaal through their company Volumetrics
Medical Imaging, Inc.

Von Ramm (PhD ’73) and Smith (PhD ’75) first began working together at Duke as
PhD students in the lab of Frederick Thurstone, an ultrasound researcher who
was recruited to work in Duke’s biomedical engineering department as a faculty
member in 1967. At the time, ultrasound was a relatively new technology, and
it wasn’t widely used in clinical applications. This changed after von Ramm
and Thurstone helped revolutionize the ultrasound scanner, a device that both
transmits and receives ultrasound pulses.

By designing a phase array ultrasound scanner that could emit thousands of
pulses at once, the tool could receive more detailed images from the scanned
tissue, giving physicians a better look at what was going on inside the body.
While this advancement was effective, von Ramm and Smith wanted to continue to
improve the technology to see three-dimensional moving images in real-time.

“We ended up sketching out our idea on a napkin,” says Smith. “To test it out,
we filled a garbage can with water from the Eno River and dropped a wrench
into it, and we were able to see the wrench through this muddy water. That
experiment really gave us the idea to pursue real time 3D ultrasound for
medical use.”

To make their plan a reality, Smith and von Ramm aimed to increase the
sensitivity of their device. Rather than keep the sensors in a row like
previous ultrasound probes, they arranged hundreds of sensors in a
checkerboard pattern to better analyze more complex ultrasound reflections.
They also created their own computer systems to quickly read the feedback and
show the image.

“I had thought of doing 3D when we had developed 2D ultrasound in the ’70s,
but we didn’t have the technology that would allow for that,” says von Ramm.
“We were only able to make our first 3D image by 1987, and even then, it
wasn’t very good. But the images we made improved each year.”

The team applied for patents in 1986 and 1987, and shortly after they were
joined by John Oxaal, a biomedical engineer who had graduated from Duke in
1976 and had previously worked with von Ramm on 2D ultrasound. Together, they
formed Volumetrics Medical Imaging in 1992 to develop the first real-time 3D
commercial system.

Renting space in downtown Durham, the team formed a collaboration between
Volumetrics and Duke’s Department of Biomedical Engineering, relying on
funding from the National Science Foundation as they built their initial
prototype. By 2000, the company had sold nearly 20 3D scanners, which were
used for obstetrics and cardiovascular imaging. Since then the basis of their
technology has been widely used in clinics in nearly every developed country
around the world.

In the intervening years, von Ramm has continuously looked for ways to improve
the technology, especially for cardiology. Today, he’s contributing to
research relating to high-speed ultrasound imaging, which shows upwards of
1,000 frames a second. With this improved view, he says, physicians and
researchers could visualize the depolarization of the heart, potentially
limiting the need for invasive procedures that examine heart muscle.

“We’d be able to examine areas that aren’t contracting well and potentially
learn why they aren’t contracting well, or we could examine regions that are
contracting prematurely and reducing the efficiency of the heart,” says von
Ramm. “Right now, there are only very difficult ways to map the electrical
excitation of the heart. You’d have to do it invasively with a catheter, and
it can take four hours. If this works out, we’d be able to do it easily and
non-invasively.”

Smith has also continued to advance ultrasound probes, designing esophageal
probes that can clearly examine a patient’s heart by circumventing the lungs
and fatty tissue. One of his long-term goals is to use ultrasound imaging to
visualize the brain through the skull, potentially giving physicians an easier
way to diagnose issues like a stroke and immediately start treatment.

“We’re always looking for good, non-invasive ways to monitor the body, and
ultrasound imaging has played a vital role,” says Smith. “The goal of our work
has always been to change the practice of medicine for the better.”

* * *

**John Oxaal: The Entrepreneurial Alumnus**

After graduating from biomedical engineering at Duke with his bachelor of
science in engineering degree in 1976, Oxaal enrolled at the University of
Chicago, earning his business degree before returning to Duke to help start
Volumetrics Medical Imaging with von Ramm and Smith. Oxaal continued to work
at the company until 1999, after which he moved to the west coast to work as a
venture capitalist at Sevin Rosen funds. While there, his entrepreneurial work
focused on a variety of scientific topics, including imaging and photonics.

His experience as both an entrepreneur at Volumetrics and as a venture
capitalist led BME Chair Ashutosh Chilkoti to invite Oxaal back to Duke to
serve as the first entrepreneur-in-residence in the department for the
2015–2016 school year, providing support and guidance to new entrepreneurs in
the BME department. Through this role, Oxaal helped Charles Gersbach found
Element Genomics in 2015, eventually becoming CEO of the company.

After years of experience in the entrepreneurial world, Oxaal was pleased to
return to his alma mater and help a new generation of entrepreneurs. “The BME
department at Duke has always been full of leaders in the field, and it’s
given them a very clear idea of where the unmet needs are,” says Oxaal.
“Engineers are an entrepreneurial bunch, and they’re solving real-world
problems in ways that can have enormous benefits.”

* * *

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

