

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Silver Nanocubes Make Point-of-Care Diagnostics Easier to Read

May 12, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

Researchers use plasmonics to enhance fluorescent markers in lab-on-a-chip
diagnostic devices

Engineers at Duke University have shown that nanosized silver cubes can make
diagnostic tests that rely on fluorescence easier to read by making them more
than 150 times brighter. Combined with an emerging point-of-care diagnostic
platform already shown capable of detecting small traces of viruses and other
biomarkers, the approach could allow such tests to become much cheaper and
more widespread.

The results appeared online on May 6 in the journal Nano Letters.

Plasmonics is a scientific field that traps energy in a feedback loop called a
plasmon onto the surface of silver nanocubes. When fluorescent molecules are
sandwiched between one of these nanocubes and a metal surface, the interaction
between their electromagnetic fields causes the molecules to emit light much
more vigorously. Maiken Mikkelsen, the James N. and Elizabeth H. Barton
Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Duke, has been
working with her laboratory at Duke to create new types of hyperspectral
cameras and superfast optical signals using plasmonics for nearly a decade.

At the same time, researchers in the laboratory of Ashutosh Chilkoti, the Alan
L. Kaganov Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering, have been
working on a self-contained, point-of-care diagnostic test that can pick out
trace amounts of specific biomarkers from biomedical fluids such as blood. But
because the tests rely on fluorescent markers to indicate the presence of the
biomarkers, seeing the faint light of a barely positive test requires
expensive and bulky equipment.

“Our research has already shown that plasmonics can enhance the brightness of
fluorescent molecules tens of thousands of times over,” said Mikkelsen. “Using
it to enhance diagnostic assays that are limited by their fluorescence was
clearly a very exciting idea.”

“There are not a lot of examples of people using plasmon-enhanced fluorescence
for point-of-care diagnostics, and the few that exist have not been yet
implemented into clinical practice,” added Daria Semeniak, a graduate student
in Chilkoti’s laboratory. “It’s taken us a couple of years, but we think we’ve
developed a system that can work.”

In the new paper, researchers from the Chilkoti lab build their super-
sensitive diagnostic platform called the D4 Assay onto a thin film of gold,
the preferred yin to the plasmonic silver nanocube’s yang. The platform starts
with a thin layer of polymer brush coating, which stops anything from sticking
to the gold surface that the researchers don’t want to stick there.The
researchers then use an ink-jet printer to attach two groups of molecules
tailored to latch on to the biomarker that the test is trying to detect. One
set is attached permanently to the gold surface and catches one part of the
biomarker. The other is washed off of the surface once the test begins,
attaches itself to another piece of the biomarker, and flashes light to
indicate it’s found its target.

After several minutes pass to allow the reactions to occur, the rest of the
sample is washed away, leaving behind only the molecules that have managed to
find their biomarker matches, floating like fluorescent beacons tethered to a
golden floor.

“The real significance of the assay is the polymer brush coating,” said
Chilkoti. “The polymer brush allows us to store all of the tools we need on
the chip while maintaining a simple design.”

While the D4 Assay is very good at grabbing small traces of specific
biomarkers, if there are only trace amounts, the fluorescent beacons can be
difficult to see. The challenge for Mikkelsen and her colleagues was to place
their plasmonic silver nanocubes above the beacons in such a way that they
supercharged the beacons’ fluorescence.

But as is usually the case, this was easier said than done.

“The distance between the silver nanocubes and the gold film dictates how much
brighter the fluorescent molecule becomes,” said Daniela Cruz, a graduate
student working in Mikkelsen’s laboratory. “Our challenge was to make the
polymer brush coating thick enough to capture the biomarkers—and only the
biomarkers of interest—but thin enough to still enhance the diagnostic
lights.”

The researchers attempted two approaches to solve this Goldilocks riddle. They
first added an electrostatic layer that binds to the detector molecules that
carry the fluorescent proteins, creating a sort of “second floor” that the
silver nanocubes could sit on top of. They also tried functionalizing the
silver nanocubes so that they would stick directly to individual detector
molecules on a one-on-one basis.

While both approaches succeeded in boosting the amount of light coming from
the beacons, the former showed the best improvement, increasing its
fluorescence by more than 150 times. However, this method also requires an
extra step of creating a “second floor,” which adds another hurdle to
engineering a way to make this work on a commercial point-of-care diagnostic
rather than only in a laboratory. And while the fluorescence didn’t improve as
much in the second approach, the test’s accuracy did.

“Building microfluidic lab-on-a-chip devices through either approach would
take time and resources, but they’re both doable in theory,” said Cassio
Fontes, a graduate student in the Chilkoti laboratory. “That’s what the D4
Assay is moving toward.”

And the project is moving forward. Earlier in the year, the researchers used
preliminary results from this research to secure a five-year, $3.4 million R01
research award from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute. The
collaborators will be working to optimize these fluorescence enhancements
while integrating wells, microfluidic channels and other low-cost solutions
into a single-step diagnostic device that can run through all of these steps
automatically and be read by a common smartphone camera in a low-cost device.

“One of the big challenges in point-of-care tests is the ability to read out
results, which usually requires very expensive detectors,” said Mikkelsen.
“That’s a major roadblock to having disposable tests to allow patients to
monitor chronic diseases at home or for use in low-resource settings. We see
this technology not only as a way to get around that bottleneck, but also as a
way to enhance the accuracy and threshold of these diagnostic devices.”

This research was supported by the National Institute of Health
(5R01-HL144928-02), the Research Corporation for Science Advancement, the
United States Special Operations Command (W81XWH-16-C-0219), the Combat
Casualty Care Research Program (JPC-6) (W81XWH-17-2-0045) and the National
Council for the Improvement of Higher Education - CAPES (the Science without
Borders project).

CITATION: “Ultrabright Fluorescence Readout of an Ink-Jet Printed Immunoassay
Using Plasmonic Nanogap Cavities.” Daniela F. Cruz, Cassio M. Fontes, Daria
Semeniak, Jiani Huang, Angus Hucknall, Ashutosh Chilkoti, and Maiken H.
Mikkelsen. Nano Letters, 2020. DOI: 10.1021/acs.nanolett.0c01051

## Related News

April 27, 2020

### Duke Engineers Adapt Rapid Testing Platform to See If It Can Catch
COVID-19

August 08, 2017

### Inkjet-Printed Tool Enables Sensitive Diagnostic Testing in Point-of-Care
Settings

December 14, 2016

### Nanocubes Simplify Printing And Imaging In Color And Infrared

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

