

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Pratt Student Wins 2013 Start-Up Challenge

April 12, 2013

Matt Pleatman and his co-founders designed an ultra slim, all-in-one contact
lens case and multipurpose solution

Ever forget your contact case on a trip and you have nowhere to put your
lenses? Pratt Engineering student Matt Pleatman and his co-founders have a
solution for you: the Contact Lens Refresh Card, an ultra slim, all-in-one
contact lens case and multipurpose solution carrier that fits into your wallet
in the same way as a credit card.

Pleatman outlined the strengths and opportunities of his start-up Refresh
Innovations during an eight-minute pitch to the judges and the audience at the
Duke Start-Up Challenge. His pitch resonated with the judges who named Refresh
Innovations as the winner of the $50,000 prize.

"This is a game-changer," Pleatman said. "This capital infusion can really
help take us to the next level."

Pleatman explained that he and his team will use the injection of cash towards
building out an alpha production model.

"There have been lots of blood, sweat and tears as I have worked on this
start-up over the past year while also trying to balance my studies. I am so
happy that our work paid off this evening."

Refresh Innovations beat out over 100 start-ups. Ten of the start-ups took
part in an elevator pitch competition during the Start-Up event.

David Cummings, an '02 Duke graduate who co-founded the technology company
Pardot (172nd on the Inc. 500), delivered the keynote and offered eight
lessons from his experiences as a serial entrepreneur. Among his advice: "The
most important thing you can do as an entrepreneur is build the best possible
culture. It is the only thing you can control."

Cummings announced that he would be donating $500,000 towards the Professor
Frank Borchardt fund to support entrepreneurship at Duke. Borchardt was
instrumental in Cummings' success as an entrepreneur. He passed away in 2007.

The Duke Start-Up Challenge, started in 1999, runs throughout the academic
year and is open to students across the university. Howie Rhee, Managing
Director for the Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation at Duke
University's Fuqua School of Business, concluded by highlighting the Duke
Start-Up Challenge's growth. "In addition to our 120-plus Duke start-ups (up
70 percent from just a few years ago,) we had a record 500-plus Duke alumni
sign up to judge - and in some cases mentor - teams in the competition. It has
been a great year for Duke's entrepreneurship efforts, and we are proud that
the Start-Up Challenge continues its tradition of celebrating and inspiring
Duke entrepreneurs."

Article courtesy of the Fuqua School of Business

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

