

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Pratt Pouch Project Funded in Ecuador

February 23, 2016

GSK and Save the Children have awarded $226,600 to a program that uses a Duke
innovation to help prevent mothers from passing HIV to their newborn children
in Ecuador.

The project uses a product dubbed the “Pratt Pouch”—which looks similar to a
fast-food ketchup packet—to deliver anti-HIV medications to infants more
accurately and efficiently.

The award is part of the annual $1 million Healthcare Innovation Awards, which
recognizes innovations from developing countries that are helping to reduce
deaths among children under five. The Duke project was joined by three other
winning submissions that were chosen from more than 100 entries in 26
countries.

A major initiative of GSK and Save the Children’s five-year partnership, the
Healthcare Innovation Awards are the result of the two organizations combining
their resources, voices and expertise to help save one million children’s
lives. Focusing on innovation, the program seeks to identify ideas that make a
tangible difference to children’s health and enable the projects’ leaders to
share and replicate their approach.

“We set out to identify brilliant ideas born in developing countries that are
helping save children’s lives,” said Lisa Bonadonna, head of the GSK-Save the
Children partnership. “Too often, these inventions fly under the radar due to
lack of funds or profile. We wanted to change that.”

The Pratt Pouch is already in use in multiple countries, including Uganda,
Zambia and Tanzania. In Africa, the long shelf-life of the medication’s
packaging is very important to its effectiveness. But in South America, the
ability for the mothers’ to provide their children with accurate dosing is the
primary concern.

“We are thrilled to be given this great honor,” said Bob Malkin, professor of
the practice in biomedical engineering and global health at Duke, who invented
the Pratt Pouch and has been working on it with the help of undergraduates at
Duke for the past eight years. “The money will be used to expand our project
in Ecuador, allowing the Pratt Pouch to help prevent thousands of infants from
becoming HIV positive.

“We are also really excited about the expansion of the project in Uganda,”
continued Malkin. “Thanks to an award from Saving Lives at Birth, nearly 40
percent of Ugandan women will be able to access the medication they need for
their children using the Pratt Pouch, starting later in 2016. We are hoping to
see the introduction of the pouch in Nigeria in 2017 as well.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

