

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Predicting Patient Outcomes

March 3, 2017

Less than 100 yards away from one of the Southeast’s busiest medical centers,
Duke engineers Lawrence Carin and Ricardo Henao are working to keep people out
of those inpatient beds.

By designing algorithms to sift through reams of data in clinical records, the
team is helping clinicians find better ways to predict which patients will
experience complications and then intervene to keep them healthy.

In a recent project with Duke Health colleagues, the researchers analyzed data
from five years’ worth of electronic health records gathered by the
Southeastern Diabetes Initiative (taking care to protect individual privacy).
With more than 16,000 records and thousands of potential parameters to
consider, they enlisted help from a student Data+ team to reduce the data to a
count of the number of times patients visited the hospital, took a medication
or had a procedure.

“It turns out we can do pretty well, even with such a simplified dataset,”
said Henao. “With those metrics, our machine learning algorithm could predict
any one of 13 potential comorbidities over a six-month period better than
existing tools.”

Now, with colleagues Katherine Heller in Statistics and Erich Huang in
Biostatistics & Bioinformatics, they’re taking a similar approach to help Duke
Health improve overall care quality and reduce medical costs. Using a massive
database of insurance claims, the team built a model that combines data on
diagnostics, medications and procedures with demographic information to
predict which patients are at risk of admission and readmission within six
months. The early results proved promising, encouraging Henao to begin
refining the model.

“If we can identify the patients most at risk and prioritize their follow-ups,
we can raise the level of care while decreasing hospital costs for everyone,”
said Henao.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

