

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Artificial Intelligence Predicts Treatment Outcome for Diabetes-Related
Vision Loss

January 28, 2020

New algorithm poised to help doctors individualize treatment for diabetic
macular edema

_From The Optical Society_

A new approach that uses artificial intelligence to analyze retinal images
could one day help doctors select the best treatment for patients with vision
loss from diabetic macular edema. This diabetes complication is a major cause
of vision loss among working-age adults.

Anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) agents are widely used as the
first line of therapy for diabetic macular edema, but they don’t work for
everyone. There’s a need to identify who would benefit from the therapy
because it requires multiple injections that are costly and burdensome for
both patients and physicians.

“We developed an algorithm that can be used to automatically analyze optical
coherence tomography (OCT) images of the retina to predict whether a patient
is likely to respond to anti-VEGF treatments,” said research team leader Sina
Farsiu, the Paul Ruffin Scarborough Distinguished Associate Professor of
Engineering at Duke University. “This research represents a step toward
precision medicine, in which such predictions help clinicians better select
first-line therapies for patients based on specific disease conditions.”

In The Optical Society (OSA) journal _Biomedical Optics Express_, Farsiu and
colleagues show that the new algorithm can analyze just one pre-treatment
volumetric scan to accurately predict whether a patient is likely to respond
to anti-VEGF therapy.

“Our approach could potentially be used in eye clinics to prevent unnecessary
and costly trial-and-error treatments and thus alleviate a substantial
treatment burden for patients,” said Farsiu, who holds appointments in
ophthalmology, biomedical engineering, electrical and computer engineering,
and computer science. “The algorithm could also be adapted to predict therapy
response for many other eye diseases, including neovascular age-related
macular degeneration.”

## Predicting treatment response

The algorithm developed by the researchers is based on a novel convolutional
neural network (CNN) architecture, a type of artificial intelligence that can
analyze images by assigning importance to various aspects or objects. They
used the algorithm to examine images acquired with OCT, a noninvasive
technology that produces high-resolution cross-sectional retinal images and is
the standard of care for assessing and treating many eye conditions.

“Unlike previously developed approaches, our algorithm requires OCT images
from only a single pretreatment timepoint,” said Reza Rasti, first author of
the paper and a postdoctoral scholar in Farsiu’s laboratory. “There’s no need
for time-series OCT images, patient records or other metadata to predict
therapy response.”

The new algorithm preserves and highlights global structures in the OCT image
while enhancing local features from diseased regions to efficiently use
retinal thickness information. To help with treatment decision making, the
researchers incorporated an additional step that looks for CNN-encoded
features that are highly correlated with anti-VEGF response.

## Testing the algorithm

The researchers tested their new algorithm with OCT images from 127 patients
who had been treated for diabetic macular edema with three consecutive
injections of anti-VEGF agents. They applied the algorithm to analyze OCT
images taken before the anti-VEGF injections, then compared the algorithm’s
predictions to OCT images taken after anti-VEGF therapy to confirm whether the
therapy improved the condition.

Based on the results, the researchers calculated that the algorithm would have
an 87 percent chance of correctly predicting who would respond to treatment.
It exhibited an average precision and specificity of 85 percent and a
sensitivity of 80 percent.

Next, the researchers plan to confirm and extend the findings from this pilot
study by performing a larger observational trial of patients who have not yet
undergone treatment.

**Citation** : R. Rasti, M. J. Allingham, P. S. Mettu, S. Kavusi, K. Govind,
S. W. Cousins, S. Farsiu, “Deep learning-based single-shot prediction of
differential effects of anti-VEGF treatment in patients with diabetic macular
edema,” _Biomed. Opt. Express,_ volume 11, issue 2, pp. 1139-1152 (2020). DOI:
10.1364/BOE.379150

## Related News

August 27, 2019

### Computational Imaging Increases Resolution of Eye Imaging Technology

April 12, 2019

### Artificial Intelligence Singles Out Neurons Faster Than a Human Can

August 27, 2014

### Sina Farsiu: Processing an Avalanche of Images

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

