

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Computers Create Recipe for Two New Magnetic Materials

April 14, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

First supercomputer-generated recipes yield two new kinds of magnets

Material scientists have predicted and built two new magnetic materials, atom-
by-atom, using high-throughput computational models. The success marks a new
era for the large-scale design of new magnetic materials at unprecedented
speed.

Although magnets abound in everyday life, they are actually rarities—only
about five percent of known inorganic compounds show even a hint of magnetism.
And of those, just a few dozen are useful in real-world applications because
of variability in properties such as effective temperature range and magnetic
permanence.

The relative scarcity of these materials can make them expensive or difficult
to obtain, leading many to search for new options given how important magnets
are in applications ranging from motors to magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
machines. The traditional process involves little more than trial and error,
as researchers produce different molecular structures in hopes of finding one
with magnetic properties. Many high-performance magnets, however, are singular
oddities among physical and chemical trends that defy intuition.

In a new study, materials scientists from Duke University provide a shortcut
in this process. They show the capability to predict magnetism in new
materials through computer models that can screen hundreds of thousands of
candidates in short order. And, to prove it works, they’ve created two
magnetic materials that have never been seen before.

The results appear April 14, 2017, in Science Advances.

"Predicting magnets is a heck of a job and their discovery is very rare,” said
Stefano Curtarolo, professor of mechanical engineering and materials science
and director of the Center for Materials Genomics at Duke. “Even with our
screening process, it took years of work to synthesize our predictions. We
hope others will use this approach to create magnets for use in a wide range
of applications."

The group focused on a family of materials called Heusler alloys—materials
made with atoms from three different elements arranged in one of three
distinct structures. Considering all the possible combinations and
arrangements available using 55 elements, the researchers had 236,115
potential prototypes to choose from.

To narrow the list down, the researchers built each prototype atom-by-atom in
a computational model. By calculating how the atoms would likely interact and
the energy each structure would require, the list dwindled to 35,602
potentially stable compounds.

From there, the researchers conducted a more stringent test of stability.
Generally speaking, materials stabilize into the arrangement requiring the
least amount of energy to maintain. By checking each compound against other
atomic arrangements and throwing out those that would be beat out by their
competition, the list shrank to 248.

Of those 248, only 22 materials showed a calculated magnetic moment. The final
cut dropped any materials with competing alternative structures too close for
comfort, leaving a final 14 candidates to bring from theoretical model into
the real world.

But as most things in a laboratory turn out, synthesizing new materials is
easier said than done.

“It can take years to realize a way to create a new material in a lab,” said
Corey Oses, a doctoral student in Curtarolo’s laboratory and second author on
the paper. “There can be all types of constraints or special conditions that
are required for a material to stabilize. But choosing from 14 is a lot better
than 200,000.”

For the synthesis, Curtarolo and Oses turned to Stefano Sanvito, professor of
physics at Trinity College in Dublin, Ireland. After years of attempting to
create four of the materials, Sanvito succeeded with two.

Both were, as predicted, magnetic.

The first newly minted magnetic material was made of cobalt, manganese and
titanium (Co2MnTi). By comparing the measured properties of similarly
structured magnets, the researchers were able to predict the new magnet’s
properties with a high degree of accuracy. Of particular note, they predicted
the temperature at which the new material lost its magnetism to be 940 K (1232
degrees Fahrenheit). In testing, the actual “Curie temperature” turned out to
be 938 K (1228 degrees Fahrenheit)—an exceptionally high number. This, along
with its lack of rare earth elements, makes it potentially useful in many
commercial applications.

“Many high-performance permanent magnets contain rare earth elements,” said
Oses. “And rare earth materials can be expensive and difficult to acquire,
particularly those that can only be found in Africa and China. The search for
magnets free of rare-earth materials is critical, especially as the world
seems to be shying away from globalization.”

The second material was a mixture of manganese, platinum and palladium
(Mn2PtPd), which turned out to be an antiferromagnet, meaning that its
electrons are evenly divided in their alignments. This leads the material to
have no internal magnetic moment of its own, but makes its electrons
responsive to external magnetic fields.

While this property doesn’t have many applications outside of magnetic field
sensing, hard drives and Random Access Memory (RAM), these types of magnets
are extremely difficult to predict. Nevertheless, the group’s calculations for
its various properties remained spot on.

“It doesn’t really matter if either of these new magnets proves useful in the
future,” said Curtarolo. “The ability to rapidly predict their existence is a
major coup and will be invaluable to materials scientists moving forward.”

This work was supported by the Science Foundation of Ireland, the EU
Commission and the National Science Foundation (DGF1106401).

“Accelerated discovery of new magnets in the Heusler alloy family.” Stefano
Sanvito, Corey Oses, Junkai Xue, Anurag Tiwariy, Mario Zic, Thomas Archer,
Pelin Tozman, Munuswamy Venkatesan, J. Michael D. Coey, and Stefano Curtarolo.
Science Advances, April 14, 2017. DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.1602241

###

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

