

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Prototype Off-Grid Sanitation System Debuts in India

September 25, 2015

A Photo Essay

In India alone, diarrheal disease is estimated to kill one child nearly every
minute—a symptom of having almost 600 million people resort to open defecation
every day. Worldwide, that number is 2.5 billion.

For the past several years, researchers at Duke University have been working
with RTI International and Colorado State University in an attempt to
“reinvent the toilet” to help solve the world’s sanitation crisis. And that’s
not their language; the phrase was coined by The Bill and Melinda Gates
Foundation, which launched the program that funds 13 separate projects
worldwide in 2012.

Duke’s part in the project, led by Jeff Glass, professor of electrical and
computer engineering, focuses on the basic science required to develop
efficient disinfection techniques for the liquid waste. The end goal is a
self-contained, zero-energy-, zero-water-use system that can bring safe,
affordable sanitation to those who need it, while introducing a sustainable
energy technology.

The project recently reached a milestone with the opening of the first test
facility at the Centre for Environmental Planning and Technology University
(CEPT University) in Ahmedabad, India.

"CEPT University is an excellent location for our next phase of user design
and feedback studies, and a good platform for performance testing under
controlled conditions," said Myles Elledge, senior director for global
development and strategy at RTI. "CEPT's expertise in architecture, building
science and urban environmental planning makes the campus a great host and
research collaborator for our next round of prototype development in India."

Below are photos taken from the ribbon-cutting ceremony on September 19, 2015.
Learn more about the project at abettertoilet.org/category/updates.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

