

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Pushing Science and Engineering to Create New Soft Materials

September 7, 2017

Engineering team part of prestigious NSF initiative

Engineering new materials holds enormous potential to improve and advance the
global community. Breakthroughs in medicine, defense and clean energy could be
achieved by designing polymeric materials with a whole host of abilities and
properties.

To push this emerging field forward, the National Science Foundation (NSF) set
up an initiative called Designing Materials to Revolutionize and Engineer our
Future (DMREF). In August, DMREF awarded a four-year, $1.4 million grant to a
team consisting of researchers from the engineering schools of Duke University
and Washington University in St. Louis. The initiative awards grants to
researchers at the forefront of materials advancement, enabling them to push
science, stretch their imaginations in the quest to streamline the development
of new soft materials, and predict and tune their properties for both existing
and novel applications.

Researchers Ashutosh Chilkoti, the Alan L. Kaganov Professor of Biomedical
Engineering and chair of the Department of Biomedical Engineering and the
principal investigator for the project, and Stefan Zauscher, the Sternberg
Family Professor of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science, comprise the
Duke team, and will collaborate with Rohit Pappu, the Edwin H. Murty Professor
of Engineering at Washington University’s School of Engineering & Applied
Science.

“You can imagine making an adhesive that will also have the strength of
steel,” said Pappu. “Or perhaps something that will flow like toothpaste but
also have the potential to be used as a miniature bioreactor. We could use new
materials for drug delivery, drug storage, artificial tissues, and other
applications we haven’t thought of yet.”

“Nature offers an enormous design space for the design of new materials, but
most past efforts, including ours, have simply used a very narrow range of
parameters to create bioinspired — protein-based — materials,” Chilkoti said.
“This project will attempt to cover a large terrain of the sequence space of
nature by combining fast computer screening techniques developed at Washington
University by Professor Pappu with high-throughput synthesis and
characterization at Duke University to identify peptide polymers with new or
improved function.”

Zauscher and Chilkoti are already working to develop approaches to assemble
these polypeptides into hierarchically structured materials.

“These materials can function as templates to guide the self-assembly of
nanoscale objects and thus enable a broad range of biocatalytic,
bioelectronic/photonic, or assay devices,” Zauscher said.

The next step: Scientists must be able to zero in on the exact amino acid
sequences within the enormous sequence space of the 20 amino acids offered by
nature that need to be manipulated to create materials with unprecedented
physical properties. It’s a process combining mathematical and physical
science, and, with an infinite number of sequences to explore, takes the
concept of “needle in a haystack” to an extreme degree. That’s where Pappu and
his team come in.

“Even with all the high-throughput technologies, the design space is huge,”
Pappu said. “What we need are principles that will pave the way to rational
design strategies, whereby we prescribe desired material properties and arrive
at a set of sequences via computational design that are likely to achieve the
properties of interest. This requires an understanding of the connection
between a sequence and the design criteria, although this understanding
doesn’t have to be perfect. It needs to be good enough to guide the search
process through an astronomically large sequence space.”

Physics-based computer simulations of phase transitions of protein sequences
combined with mathematical models developed in the Pappu lab will aid the
design process. Pappu and his team plan to combine knowledge of the
relationships between sequence-encoded physical properties of various block
copolymeric amino acid sequences and measured material characteristics, along
with prior data culled by the Duke researchers. Then they intend to design
algorithms that should enable the customized design of materials with desired
profiles such as response to external stimuli, specific flow and mechanical
properties, and the ability to serve as scaffolds for biochemical reactions.

“Through our research collaboration, we will converge on a generalized
simulation and experimental toolkit that enables the efficient design and
fabrication of protein material nanostructures using thermally responsive
polypeptides,” Zauscher said.

The advances that Pappu and his team hope to realize in collaboration with
Chilkoti and Zauscher, who are leaders in materials science and engineering,
should enable the expansion of materials design that goes beyond the current
scaffold, which is based on elastin-like polypeptides.

“The algorithms we develop are a blend of physics-based approaches that span
multiple scales and data-driven approaches that enable the joint navigation of
sequence space, conformational space, and the space of material morphologies
in order to achieve the specified design criteria,” Pappu said. “The
opportunity to work with experts like Chilkoti and Zauscher is very exciting
and we hope to achieve some success in fulfilling the NSF’s goal of expanding
the design space of protein-based polymeric materials.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

