

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# A Rainbow River

March 6, 2019 | By Savannah Volkoff and Claudia K. Gunsch

Searching for a bioremediation strategy to alleviate creosote pollution of the
Elizabeth River

_from New Farmer's Almanac_

On a hot July morning in Virginia, I found myself suiting up in waders and a
safety hard hat. This trip to one of our field sites was already different
than any other. The summer sun had been blaring down on the river bank for a
few hours, beckoning to the surface a sour concoction of aged creosote.

In the early 1600’s, the Elizabeth River—a tributary of the Chesapeake Bay in
Virginia—was one of the first sights for many British colonizers including
Captain John Smith. Named in honor of King James I’s eldest daughter, the
Elizabeth River was an emblem of opportunity. Over the many years of
settlement and industrialization, the Elizabeth River became one of the
largest shipping channels in the United States, hosting many ports, a naval
base, and manufacturers of various shippable commodities.

> Creosote, a product formed through the chemical transformation of various
> tars and plant-derived materials, was primarily used as an effective wood
> preservative to coat telephone poles and railroad ties up until the late
> 1900’s.

In the twentieth century, three creosote manufacturing companies operated
along the banks of the Elizabeth River. Creosote, a product formed through the
chemical transformation of various tars and plant-derived materials, was
primarily used as an effective wood preservative to coat telephone poles and
railroad ties up until the late 1900’s. Over time, creosote manufacturing
byproducts were released into the Elizabeth River and, because of their
persistence, these compounds rest in the sediments to this day. The amount of
creosote pollution found at these sites is some of the greatest in the world.

On the day of our visit to collect sediment from the Elizabeth River, the
long-ago dumped creosote was making its presence known. I had never seen
anything like it. It truly was a rainbow river. There was a huge sheen
floating on the surface, hosting colors of pinks, oranges, and purples. When
disturbed, this floating cloud morphed into crisp metallic colors. The
sediment under the water—my primary research interest—shone similarly. Using
my gloved hands, I carefully loaded this smelly gold dirt into my collection
tube for later analysis. Some of my colleagues also collected fish from the
Elizabeth River.

The fish would be returned to our laboratories at Duke University where our
research team analyzes the effects of chemical exposure on the fishes’ ability
to function effectively. In the sediment, we would be looking for the smallest
forms of life, or microorganisms, capable of surviving in the presence of
heavy pollution. Microorganisms, such as bacteria and fungi, have adapted
incredible metabolic systems and thrive in some of the harshest environments
on Earth, including hot springs, deep ocean trenches, and the tundra. In the
context of my project, I wanted to find organisms that could consume creosote
and break it down into non-toxic by-products.

> I wanted to find organisms that could consume creosote and break it down
> into non-toxic by-products.

Using microorganisms to remove chemical pollution from the environment is a
treatment approach known as bioremediation. Bioremediation serves as a
promising non-invasive alternative to typical sediment remediation strategies,
which rely on dredging the river bottom and sending the sediment to a landfill
or incinerator. In the case of the Elizabeth River, polluted sediment is
relocated to an unsettled island—saving the problem for another day, in
another place. However, if efficient microbes can be identified, a
bioremediation strategy could be implemented and all the sediment could stay
just where it is, preventing further damage to the local ecosystem.

The Elizabeth River is already home to a diverse community of
microorganisms—bacteria and fungi that are working hard to maintain a
functional ecosystem. As we better understand the dynamic nature of these
microbial communities, we can learn how to help them consume creosote with
greater efficiency and at a faster pace. Thankfully, the Elizabeth doesn’t
always host such diverse colors and pungent smells. In the dead of winter, she
seems just like any other river—cold, calm, and quiet. My hope is that my
research will help rehabilitate the Elizabeth River and prevent it from ever
being a rainbow river in the future!

More News from CEE

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

