

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Ramanujam Receives Fulbright Global Scholar Award

April 22, 2019

Nimmi Ramanujam will use the award to establish a strategy for community-based
cervical cancer screening strategies

Nimmi Ramanujam, the Robert W. Carr Jr. Professor of Biomedical Engineering at
Duke University, received the Fulbright Global Scholar Fellowship in
recognition of her work surrounding cervical cancer screening and diagnosis.
As the flagship international educational exchange program sponsored by the
U.S. government, the Fulbright program allows academics and professionals to
engage in multi-country, trans-regional projects over the course of an
academic year.

With work at the intersection of engineering and global health, Ramanujam will
use the Fulbright award to establish a strategy for community-based cervical
cancer screening strategies in Chennai, India and Lima, Peru using
technologies developed by her team.

In addition to her role in Duke BME, Ramanujam is the director of Duke’s
Global Women’s Health Technologies Center, a joint venture between Duke Global
Health Institute and the Pratt School of Engineering. The poster child for
Ramanujam’s research is the Pocket Colposcope, a compact tool that enables
healthcare workers––and women themselves–– to both scan for and diagnose
cervical cancer without expensive imaging equipment. The newest iteration of
the device, dubbed the Callascope, also removes the need for a speculum,
eliminating what many women consider to be the most uncomfortable, and
sometimes painful, aspect of cervical cancer screening.

“Cervical cancer is a disease of excess mortality. This is the one cancer that
can be prevented through well-established interventions, and if these
interventions were available to all women I believe the cervical cancer
mortality rate would be plummet,” says Ramanujam. “The Pocket Colposcope is
our first step towards bringing complex services traditionally offered at
hard-to-reach referral settings to primary care.”

Through Bass Connections projects beginning in 2016, Ramanujam and her team
have been exploring how the Pocket Colposcope can be implemented into existing
healthcare systems in settings with limited resources. During the 2016-2017
school year, students traveled to Lima, Peru to perform a global value chain
analysis to identify leverage points that could increase the adoption of the
Pocket Colposcope. The team built on this knowledge during the 2017-2018
school year, where they focused on launching a community health provider
program to implement the Pocket Colposcope in the primary care setting in
Peru. Now the Bass program is focusing on implementing these health care
innovations in low resource communities in the U.S.

“Inventions such as the Pocket Colposcope are enabling technologies, but for
these technologies to have an impact, we really need to tailor them to the
ecosystem they will be used in and working in the field with stakeholders is
an important step in achieving them,” says Ramanujam. “The Fulbright Award
will allow me to pursue these partnerships during my sabbatical.”

The Fulbright Global Scholar Fellowship aims to increase the mutual
understanding between the people of the U.S. and the people of other
countries. Fulbright alumni have become heads of state, judges, ambassadors,
cabinet ministers, CEOs and university presidents, as well as leading
journalists, artists, scientists and teachers. They include 59 Nobel
Laureates, 84 Pulitzer Prize winners, 72 MacArthur Fellows, 16 Presidential
Medal of Freedom recipients, and thousands of leaders across the private,
public and for-profit sectors. Since its inception in 1946, more than 380,000
“Fulbrighters” have participated in the program. To learn more, visit:
cies.org/program/fulbright-global-scholar-award

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

