

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Raya Islam: Using Drones for Conservation

January 19, 2017

Grand Challenge Scholar Profile

Major: Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Challenge: Engineering the Tools of Scientific Discovery

GC Advisor: Professor Missy Cummings

Project: Using Drones as Tools for Animal Conservation

**How did you know you wanted to go into engineering?**

I did robotics in high school, and I always found myself liking the hands-on
stuff as opposed to the electrical stuff. I also knew that I wanted to go into
a research lab to see what it was like, and then to see if I wanted to pursue
grad school within mechanical engineering. I started in Missy Cummings’s lab
during my sophomore year and I enjoyed how it forced me to challenge myself to
figure things out.

**What was your project for the Grand Challenge Scholars Program?**

I do drone research to count elephants in an efficient way for conservation.
Currently, you manually count the elephants or depend on dung piles. Working
in Missy Cummings’s lab introduced me to the world of drones and how they can
be used in unique ways, this being one of them. My goal was to create a fully
integrated drone system using a tablet and a camera, and integrate that into
an existing drone design so you can count the elephants using a tablet
connected to the drone, all for under $1,500. After we got it working we were
able to test it in Gabon, Africa. We learned that people at these parks have a
huge need for this technology. When we came back I also tried to address the
sounds that drones make, so that the sound doesn’t disturb the elephants, and
this will eventually be able to tell us what drones are better for wildlife
conservation research.

**How has your experience been working with faculty at Duke?**

Dr. Cummings has been an incredible guiding force and presence in my Duke
career. She’s given me so many opportunities that sometimes it feels like I’m
working at the level of a grad student, so working in her lab was a great
learning experience. I didn’t know anything going into it, but it was all
about taking initiative and working by yourself to figure things out. I was
put on a drone project quickly, and one of the things that was great was that
I had a lot of deliverables like presentations that were great learning
opportunities to bring me up to speed.

**Is there an experience that defined your time at Duke?**

I don’t think there is one single experience because there are too many to
choose from. I’m grateful that I made it here, and for me for every bad
experience I may have had there were five good experiences. Being an engineer
at Duke taught me how to figure out my problems and approach things with a new
perspective.

**What are your plans moving forward?**

I’m working at a start-up called Uncharted Play in New York City that will
create renewable energy products. It’s geared towards developing regions that
don’t have great grid access, and I’m going to be helping with product
development and working this technology into everyday products. Additionally
they have a big educational aspect that I’m really passionate about. That was
a big part of my service component for my Grand Challenge Project, called
Girls Engineering Change, where we worked with girls to introduce them to
engineering by having them build small projects with engineering kits. I’m
glad to continue in that vein of research and build off what I experienced
with the Grand Challenge Scholars Program.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

