

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Research, New Policies Protect “The Lungs of India”

February 11, 2015 | By Sheena Faherty, Ph.D. Candidate in Biology

Just a glance at what should be pristine white marble domes of the local
landmark shows that air quality is a major concern.

_Reprinted from theDuke Research Blog_

You can’t see into the lungs of the people of Agra, India, home of the Taj
Mahal. But just a glance at what should be pristine white marble domes of the
local landmark shows that air quality is a major concern. The iconic domes are
tarnished and need frequent cleaning to keep them white.

A study by Duke researchers published in _Environmental Science and
Technology_ has determined the exact air particles that are the cause of the
Taj’s discoloration and threat to the health of the local people.

“The Taj Mahal can be thought of as the lungs of India,” says Mike Bergin, the
lead author of the study and a new faculty member in Duke’s Civil and
Environmental Engineering department, who credits his wife Michelle with
coming up with the analogy.

What he means is that the same particles discoloring the Taj Mahal are
depositing in the lungs of people in Agra and are having a negative impact on
their health.

Within weeks of the publication of the study, the Indian government started
putting air pollution control strategies in place. In the city of Agra,
diesel-guzzling vehicles have been banned from the streets, new policies are
being enacted to stop the burning of trash and refuse, and local governments
are replacing the traditional heating and cooking method of dung-burning with
free compressed natural gas.

This might be one of the fastest “science into policy” actions ever and Bergin
couldn’t be more pleased.

His research looks at how small particles in the atmosphere have impacts on
human health and climate. A few years back, while attending a scientific
meeting in India, he visited the Taj Mahal and noticed something strange.

“Part of it was covered in scaffolding and under the scaffold, part of the
dome was brown, and there was a thick line that was white. I took a photo
right away and thought, ‘That’s the weirdest thing I have ever seen.’”

He started asking people about it and kept getting the same story: The Taj
Mahal gets really dirty. It has something to do with the quality of the air.
We don’t know what it is, but we clean it off.

And for Bergin—a scientist whose expertise lies in air quality—the wheels
began to turn.

While serving as faculty at Georgia Tech, he assembled a multi-disciplinary
team from international in both the US (University of Wisconsin at Madison)
and India (IIT Kanpur and the Archaeological Survey of India) to tackle the
challenge of sampling both particulates in the air, as well as those that
collect on the surface of the Taj Mahal, to determine which particles were the
cause of the unblemished white domes turning brown.

The team found that collected samples contained high concentrations of carbon-
based particles and dust. Both sources are known to absorb light, which gives
the appearance of a brown hue.

Findings from this study and the impact it has had on policy-makers in India
demonstrate how deeply celebrated our cultural icons, such as the Taj Mahal,
are.

“People knew the air there was bad, but nobody was really doing that much
about it. The interesting thing is that they moved very quickly because they
didn’t want to see the Taj Mahal getting discolored,” Bergin says.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

