

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Researchers Aim to Develop New Techniques for Creating High-Temperature
Alloys

August 25, 2015

A new grant seeking to develop new techniques for creating high-temperature
materials is taking advantage of Duke University’s expertise in computational
materials genomics—the computer modeling of novel materials to identify which
might have desirable properties.

Led by NC State University, the new initiative is aimed at addressing
fundamental scientific questions that could lead to the development of so-
called “entropy-stabilized alloys” that can withstand extremely high
temperatures. The initiative also includes the University of Virginia and the
University of California, San Diego, and is funded by a five-year, $8.4
million grant from the Office of Naval Research (ONR).

“The Defense Department has a need for materials that are mechanically and
chemically stable at ultra-high temperatures – meaning temperatures of 2,000
degrees Celsius or more,” says Don Brenner, Kobe Steel Distinguished Professor
of Materials Science and Engineering at NC State and principal investigator
under the ONR grant. “These materials can have significant aerospace
applications, but the number of usable materials is currently small, and those
materials rely on strong chemical bonding to remain stable. At high
temperatures, most materials are simply no longer stable.”

To address the shortage of ultra-high temperature materials, ONR has tasked
Brenner and the rest of the research team with investigating the viability of
creating entropy-stabilized alloys that withstand these temperatures. Entropy-
stabilized alloys are materials that consist of four or more elements in
approximately equal amounts, and they have garnered significant attention in
recent years because they can have remarkable properties.

“Our role in this project is to create an algorithm for rapidly quantifying
the stability of systems that are losing or have lost their crystalline
structure,” said Stefano Curtarolo, professor of mechanical engineering and
materials science at Duke. “We can do this through a combination of kinetics
descriptors and analysis of our ever-expanding library of theoretical
materials, the automatic-flow consortium repository (aflowlib.org)."

These alloys are of interest for use in ultra-high temperature applications
because of their unique ability to “absorb” disorder in a material’s
crystalline structure that otherwise would lead to the breakdown of a
material.

**Why Disorder Is Important**

Crystals are composed of a repeating arrangement of atoms, which can be
different from crystal to crystal. That arrangement is called the crystal’s
“lattice type.” For example, think of one crystal as having its atoms arranged
as a series of cubes, while another crystal may have its atoms arranged as a
series of three-dimensional hexagons.

As the temperature of a crystal is increased, it begins to lose its ordering.
That means that individual atoms may move around. And when those atoms get
rearranged, it can affect the structure – one of the cubes might start
changing into a different shape. This can occur in different ways, such as
distortions of the lattice or atoms missing from their lattice sites. At high
enough temperatures this disordering can lead to melting, or otherwise cause a
material to lose strength.

But in entropy stabilized alloys, the mix of elements can be arranged in many
different ways on a single lattice type. In other words, the structure can
continue to be a series of cubes, even if the elements that make up the
structure get shuffled around. Researchers think this ability to retain its
structural integrity even when the atoms become disordered has the potential
to increase melting points and make materials useful at ultra-high
temperatures.

**Research Questions**

The ONR grant is tasking the research team to develop the scientific concepts
needed to determine whether it’s possible to create ultra-high temperature
high entropy alloys – and, if it is possible, how.

“We’ll be developing new experimental approaches for evaluating high entropy
alloys at ultra-high temperatures,” Brenner says. “For example, how do you
test an alloy if the equipment containing the alloy melts before the alloy
does? And how can we evaluate whether a material will oxidize at extreme
temperatures, thus altering the material’s properties?”

The researchers will also be developing and modifying computational techniques
for identifying the most promising possible high entropy alloys, which can
then be targeted for additional experimental testing.

“Our computational models and databases will help identify good candidates,”
said Curtarolo. “Once established, experimentalists in the group will work to
synthesize, process and test their abilities.”

“However, our work is not aimed at necessarily creating new materials,” added
Brenner. “But rather introducing new theoretical, computational and
experimental tools into the larger ultra-high temperature materials community.

“It’s also important to stress that all of this work is truly
interinstitutional, drawing on expertise from all of the parties involved,”
Brenner says.

And the researchers won’t be working in a vacuum. There will be significant
input from a variety of third-parties to help guide the work.

“Researchers from Lockheed-Martin, the Naval Air Weapons Station at China
Lake, the Air Force Research Laboratory, and the Naval Research Laboratory,
together with other DoD-related laboratories will help to advise our work,
especially in terms of DoD and civilian needs,” Brenner says.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

