

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Responding to the Chauvin Trial

April 21, 2021

Dear Pratt community,

Yesterday’s verdict in the trial of Derek Chauvin, finding the former police
officer guilty of murdering George Floyd, drew global attention, but was also
a moment of personal significance and reflection for many of us. The verdict
came almost a year after Mr. Floyd’s death on May 25, 2020—a deeply disturbing
event that set off widespread anger and activism against the destructive
patterns of racism across our society.

Over the past year, we have seen those patterns emerge again and again, with
disheartening frequency, in other acts of racially motivated violence across
our nation. And through many conversations, courageous sharing of personal
experiences, and focused discussions such as Living While Black, we have
gained deeper understanding of racial injustices that have caused pain within
our own communities, both at Duke and at Pratt.

We want to recognize everyone at Pratt who has engaged over the past year, in
ways large or small, in shining a light on injustice and sharing your voice,
time and ideas to turn the tide--whether in your department, a work group, a
student organization, our school-wide DEIC Committee, our department DEI
Committees or a university-wide initiative. Although much work remains, it is
encouraging to see such broad engagement and commitment as Duke and Pratt
continue to seek racial justice and an inclusive community for all.

As President Price noted in his message Tuesday, this has been a painful time,
compounded by the isolation many of us are feeling due to the pandemic. Please
remember that there are resources to help. In addition to Blue Devils Care for
students and the Personal Assistance Service for faculty and staff, Pratt’s
Director of Diversity and Inclusion Karis Boyd-Sinkler is now available for
office hours for anyone in our community.

Later this week, please also look for the first issue of our new Pratt DEIC
“Community Connections” newsletter, which will provide regular updates,
information, opportunities, and resources related to diversity, equity and
inclusion at Pratt. We hope this will be a helpful tool to share information
and foster connections across our community as we continue this most important
work together.

Sincerely,

**Ravi V. Bellamkonda  
** Vinik Dean of Engineering

**Nan Jokerst  
** Associate Dean, Faculty Affairs & Community Engagement

**Karis Boyd-Sinkler  
** Director, Diversity, Equity & Inclusion

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

