

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Engineers’ Virtual Reality App Wins IGNITE NC Reverse Pitch Competition

June 27, 2017

App promises key features for sharing educational virtual reality experiences

A team of Duke University engineers is working to make shared virtual reality
experiences more useful to collaborators working on joint projects. Their
vision is vivid enough to have won the 2017 IGNITE NC Reverse Pitch
Competition this month, earning them $19,000 cash and $120,000 in IBM Cloud
Credits to develop their product.

The competition is a subsidiary of US IGNITE, a national nonprofit that is
seeding next-generation internet-dependent innovation across the country. In
the reverse pitch competition, entrepreneurs are challenged to come up with
solutions to specific problem statements.

For IGNITE NC, the categories were improved video streaming and collaboration,
safer road intersections, regional sharing and digital infrastructure for the
home. Each of the four categories share a common thread—they seek next-
generation gigabit internet apps that leverage high speed and/or fast response
time.

Regis Kopper, assistant research professor of mechanical engineering and
materials science at Duke, had an idea that fit within the Regional Sharing
category. He recruited electrical and computer engineering and computer
science students Mitchell Berger, Isaac Andersen and Rayan Tofique to help him
pursue it.

“The focus of our project is shared virtual reality experiences where multiple
people can learn from, analyze and annotate 360-degree video,” said Kopper,
who is also director of the Duke immersive Virtual Environment (DiVE), a six-
sided “CAVE” that provides a full virtual reality experience. “While it is
currently possible to share virtual reality experiences, there’s nothing out
there with the features we’re working to include.”

These features include the ability to draw annotations that everyone can see
on the virtual reality video using a handheld pointing device. The app also
shows users where others linked to the system are looking, making it easy for
everyone to be looking at the same thing. And so everyone can provide input,
the video restarts at the touch of a button and displays all of the previously
drawn annotations.

The idea landed the team one of the 10 finalist spots in the spring. For the
next several months, the group traveled to Greensboro to get help refining
their pitch while working on coding the app back at Duke. The final
competition took place in late June, where the team presented a short video
demo from their prototype during a six-minute pitch.

The panel of judges consisting of local CIOs and representatives of IBM was
clearly impressed, awarding Kopper and his students one of the two grand
prizes. The group will use the winnings to refine their prototype by
perfecting the user interface, building networking infrastructure to make the
program available to offsite users, and cultivating a library of videos.

“We want to grow a curated database of videos that are annotated by experts
for educational experiences,” said Kopper. “You could imagine getting to
experience firsthand videos of hard-to-reach places like archaeological dig
sites or restricted access places like operating rooms. And with the
collaborative features included, it would be much easier to deliver messages
than with just video and audio alone.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

