

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Robotic Scanner Automates Diagnostic Imaging in the Eye

August 4, 2021 | Michaela Kane

By removing the need for highly trained technicians, the imaging tool could
make it easier to diagnose eye diseases outside of specialized clinics

Engineers and ophthalmologists at Duke University have developed a robotic
imaging tool that can automatically detect and scan a patient’s eyes for
markers of different eye diseases.

The new tool, which combines an imaging scanner with a robotic arm, can
automatically track and image a patient’s eyes in less than a minute, and
produce images that are as clear as the traditional scanners in specialized
eye clinics.

Their paper appeared July 12 in Nature Biomedical Engineering.

Physicians and researchers use optical coherence tomography, or OCT, to
diagnose various diseases in the eye, including glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy
and age-related macular degeneration. During the imaging process, a probe
sends a beam of light into the eye and measures how long various reflections
take to bounce back to decipher the structures within the tissue.

In the clinic, OCT systems are traditionally large tabletop systems, which a
highly trained technician uses to capture several images of the eye. Patients
must be firmly settled into a head and chin rest to ensure the correct
positioning and to limit any motion. Beyond being uncomfortable, these head
and chin rests don’t fit everyone, making it difficult for certain people to
get scanned.

“Not everywhere has a resource like the Duke Eye Center, where we have access
to these highly trained and specialized technicians like ophthalmic
photographers,” said Ryan McNabb, a research scientist in the Department of
Ophthalmology at the Duke University Medical Center. “But with our new tool,
you wouldn’t need advanced training to use it. We’re optimistic that something
like this could easily be used in places like optometrist offices, primary-
care clinics, or even emergency departments. OCT is a useful diagnostic tool,
and these kinds of advances help make it easier for wider communities to
access it.”

To use their scanner, a patient approaches the machine and stands in front of
the robotic arm. 3D cameras placed to the left and right of the robot help to
find the patient in space, while smaller cameras in the robotic arm search for
landmarks on the eye to precisely position the scanner. The system is able to
scan both the macula (the part of the retina responsible for our central
vision) and cornea (the clear front part of the eye), sites where many eye
diseases occur.

It takes the tool less than 10 seconds to scan and image each eye, and the
entire process is complete in less than 50 seconds.

“The robotic arm gives us the flexibility of handheld OCT scanners, but we
don’t need to worry about any operator tremor,” said Mark Draelos, a
postdoctoral fellow in the biomedical engineering department. “If a person
moves, the robot moves with it. As long as the scanner is aligned to within a
centimeter of where it needs to be on your pupil, the scanner can get an image
that is as good as a tabletop scanner.”

Because the patient is never in physical contact with the system, their tool
avoids any hygiene and infectious diseases concerns that arise with the shared
chin and headrest in traditional OCT systems. The researchers also demonstrate
that their robotic system is very safe––especially considering how close it
can get to a patient’s face.

“The camera systems continuously track the patient and allow the robot to keep
a safe distance,” said Draelos. “In fact, the only time we’ve seen any
unintended robot contact is if a person walks or bumps into the robot when it
isn’t imaging their eye.”

The team has already begun the next phase of work in the clinic, where they
have started to image the eyes of volunteers to continue to refine the robot’s
targeting. Next, they hope to image patients that have actual retinal or
corneal diseases to test how well their robot can capture abnormalities.

They are also working to improve the field of view for the retinal scanner, as
their first iteration was able to capture key features, but multiple images
would need to be spliced together to get a full view of the retina.

“While this is a solution for image collection issues, we think it will pair
incredibly well with recent advances in machine learning for OCT image
interpretation,” said McNabb. “We’re really bringing OCT to the patients
rather than limiting these tools to specialized clinics, and I think it will
make it much easier to help a wider population of people.”

This work was supported by the Duke Coulter Translational Partnership and by
the National Eye Institute (F30-EY027280, R01-EY029302 and U01-EY028079).

Joseph Izatt is an inventor on OCT-related patents filed by Duke University
and licensed by Leica Microsystems, Carl Zeiss Meditec and St. Jude Medical.
Izatt has additional financial interests in these companies. Ryan McNabb and
Anthony Kuo are inventors on OCT-related patents filed by Duke University and
licensed by Leica Microsystems. Mark Draelos, Pablo Ortiz, Ryan McNabb,
Anthony Kuo and Joseph Izatt are inventors on provisional patent application
US62/798,052 filed by Duke University that concerns the robotic OCT system
presented in this paper.

CITATION: “Contactless optical coherence tomography of the eyes of
freestanding individuals with a robotic scanner,” Mark Draelos, Pablo Ortiz,
Ruobing Qian, Christian Viehland, Ryan McNabb, Kris Hauser, Anthony Kuo,
Joseph Izatt. Nature Biomedical Engineering, July 12, 2021. DOI:
10.1038/s41551-021-00753-6

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

