

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Robotics Points to North Carolina’s Future in Autonomous Technologies

October 14, 2019

Officials from North Carolina state agencies visit Duke Robotics to learn
potential opportunities and pitfalls of autonomous technologies

With companies pouring billions of dollars into automated and driverless
vehicle technologies, a myriad of products and services are poised to enter
our daily lives—but the rapid development of unproven technologies is causing
government entities from the Federal to local level to scramble to make sure
they are safe and appropriately regulated.

Several Duke University engineers with expertise in the field recently
welcomed a host of officials from North Carolina state agencies to help keep
them apprised of the technologies and potential pitfalls on the horizon. Among
the delegation visiting the Duke Robotics research high bay space October 3
were Department of Public Safety (DPS) Secretary Erik Hooks and other DPS
representatives from the Secretary’s Office, NC Emergency Management, Adult
Correction and Juvenile Justice, State Highway Patrol and State Bureau of
Investigation; as well as representatives from the Governor’s Office and NC
Department of Transportation.

"Our collaboration with North Carolina's outstanding universities to identify
cutting-edge technology is invaluable to our public safety mission," said
Secretary Hooks. "It was very inspiring to see what our young people are doing
to take us into the future. We appreciate the partnerships as we work together
towards making our roads, our prison facilities, event venues and ultimately
our communities safer."

The tour was led by Mary “Missy” Cummings, professor of electrical and
computer engineering and director of the Humans and Autonomy Lab at Duke.
Considered one of the nation’s leading experts on autonomous vehicle and drone
technology, Cummings also works diligently to ensure her expertise has an
impact on North Carolina’s roads and skies.

“My laboratory is working on smartphone and tablet apps for drone interfaces
that allow just about anyone with any level of experience to safely navigate a
complicated environment,” Cummings told the group. “But it’s not commercially
available because it requires extensive development and testing before it can
be used in public. And North Carolina should be asking for similar standards
from any vendors wanting to operate drones in public spaces.”

Members of the group took turns using a tablet to navigate a drone through a
series of obstacles set up in the laboratory. Cummings calls it their
“Fukushima experiment” because it mimics conditions that emulate sending a
drone into a disaster area such as the Fukushima nuclear power plant to
conduct surveys. Her research is trying to figure out the perfect balance
between drone automation and user control—too much of the former hampers the
drone’s maneuverability while too much of the latter leads to too many
crashes.

Cummings also talked about how drones will likely be used in the near future
for more mundane tasks, such as surveying bridges for structural integrity
checkups and roofs for insurance damage claims. One of Cummings’s own projects
funded by the National Science Foundation is already moving toward having an
impact in North Carolina, as she is working with the North Carolina Department
of Public Safety on an app to acoustically detect drones attempting to deliver
contraband at state prisons.

The visit to Duke Robotics also included demonstrations from Dan Buckland,
assistant professor of surgery and of mechanical engineering and materials
science, and Leila Bridgeman, assistant professor of mechanical engineering
and materials science.

Buckland demonstrated a project working to teach an off-the-shelf robotic arm
to locate and safely tap into veins in a patient’s arm. Right now the
technology is just beginning to learn how to find the veins, much less
introduce a needle into the equation. But Buckland, who is also a physician in
the Duke University Emergency Department, has high hopes for the technology’s
future and looks forward to being able to offer his patients the option of
using the technology.

“I imagine this technology evolving to the point of those automatic blood
pressure machines you see at pharmacies today,” said Buckland. “Having a
machine automatically draw a blood sample or set up an IV could save nurses a
lot of time and help healthcare systems treat more patients more quickly.”

Bridgeman’s demonstration included two robots following each other in a circle
taped to the laboratory floor. As an expert in control theory, she is working
to develop robust systems for autonomous vehicles that can handle unexpected
perturbations without diminishing the entire system’s efficiency. When the
lead robot suddenly slows down, for example, the trailing robot needs to be
able to pump its breaks and recognize when it’s time to speed back up again.

“If driverless cars are ever going to truly take over the roadways, it’s going
to require massive networks of individual controllers interacting and
coordinating with each other,” said Bridgeman. “Imagine a string of autonomous
cars on I-95 stretching from Florida to Vermont. You don’t want one unexpected
behavior to lead to a chain reaction that creates a phantom traffic jam
hundreds of miles long. These controllers need to be able to react and recover
from destabilizing behaviors at high speeds.”

“And not only do these systems have to have foolproof intrinsic controls, they
have to be hack-proof as well,” added Cummings. “These are the types of
abilities that vendors need to show before North Carolina allows them to begin
operating in the public sphere.”

## Related News

June 19, 2019

### An App for Stopping Drone Deliveries over Prison Walls

October 13, 2017

### Deterring Drones from Ballparks and Botanical Gardens

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

