

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Sapiro Awarded Two New Grants to Understand the Brain

October 6, 2014

Guillermo Sapiro has been awarded two new grants exploring the detailed inner
workings of the human brain.

Guillermo Sapiro, the Edmund T. Pratt Jr. School Professor of Electrical and
Computer Engineering at Duke University, has been awarded two new grants
totaling about $2.5 million over the next five years. Sapiro is a co-
investigator on both grants, each exploring the detailed inner workings of the
human brain.

The first award is part of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Director’s
Transformative Research Award program, which supports innovative and
inherently high-risk, high-reward projects that have the potential to create
or overturn fundamental paradigms. Titled “Synaptomes of Mouse and Man,” the
project brings together researchers from eight institutions for five years to
begin piecing together a complete picture of synapses in mammalian brains.

Led by the Allen Institute (Stephen Smith, PI), the open-source project will
catalogue the many different ways individual synapses communicate with each
other. The researchers will create new tools and methods to analyze and model
the wide varieties of synapses in mammalian brains. Sapiro’s role will focus
on image processing and machine vision and learning technologies. His work in
the project will be supported by about $1 million over the next five years.

The second award also comes from the NIH. As part of the first wave of funding
for the Brain Research through Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies (BRAIN)
initiative, Sapiro will help develop the next generation of Magnetic Resonance
Imaging (MRI) technology that can directly detect neuroelectric activities in
the human brain with a high spatial and temporal resolution. Led by Duke
professor Allen Song, who holds appointments in radiology, neurobiology,
biomedical engineering, and psychiatry and behavioral sciences, the three-year
grant will be supported by nearly $1.5 million.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

