

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Scanning Electron Microscope Images: Coming to a Screen Near You

May 4, 2020 | By Elizabeth Witherspoon

_Pandemic doesn’t prevent Duke’s Materials Science of Science Fiction class
from seeing images of the nano world_

Having dinner delivered is one thing these days; home delivery of electron
microscope images is quite another. But that’s just what Holly Leddy, an
electron microscope specialist at Duke’s Shared Materials Instrumentation
Facility (SMIF), did via Zoom for students in Christine Payne’s undergraduate
Materials Science of Science Fiction class.

With access to SMIF restricted following Duke University’s switch to online
learning after spring break, Leddy delivered a live demonstration and stunning
images of materials the students chose using a portable scanning electron
microscope (SEM) set up in her guest bedroom. This ensured students did not
miss out on the learning experience Payne had planned for the nanotechnology
module.

Earlier in the semester Payne, an associate professor of mechanical
engineering and materials science, arranged for her students to tour SMIF to
learn about the instruments available for studying materials, including the
room-size scanning electron microscope. Ordinarily, the students would then
choose materials to bring back to the SMIF for scanning, obtain their
elemental analyses and write lab reports. However, this has been no ordinary
semester.

Fortunately, Leddy’s work also includes outreach to K-12 students through the
Research Triangle Nanotechnology Network—a collaboration between Duke, North
Carolina State University and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
For that work, prior to the pandemic, she took the portable SEM to locations
in the community to demonstrate its capabilities, teach and foster interest in
science. To keep up this work as we all locked down, she moved the smaller
portable SEM to her home.

For the stay-at-home version of Payne’s assignment, Leddy collected samples by
student request of materials readily available around her home or yard—various
kinds of pollens, diatoms, plus a bonus housefly she found. Diatoms are
single-cell microalgae abundant in water and soil that come in a variety of
intricate structures, which makes them fascinating and popular specimens for
study under the microscope.

Via Zoom she demonstrated the process of loading the samples into the vacuum
chamber. First, they had to be prepared with a sputter coating of an ultrathin
layer of gold to make them conductive for imaging via the beam of accelerated
electrons. Then she showed the controls for driving the electron beam around
the small platform of samples, slowing the scanning speed to get higher
resolution, how to increase and decrease levels of magnification and the scale
bar indicating the size of the specimen in microns.

> Students, scattered across the country, were captivated by the amazing
> clarity of the images and able to ask questions as if they were all together
> in person.

Students, scattered across the country, were captivated by the amazing clarity
of the images and able to ask questions as if they were all together in
person.

As she increased magnification from 600x to 1200x on a bundle of redbud
pollen, Leddy described them as looking like little deflated footballs.

“When we think about pollen allergies, is it that little deflated football
that gets us, or that whole ensemble?” Payne asked Leddy.

“It is the deflated football,” explained Leddy, increasing magnification to
2500x and revealing tiny indentations on their surfaces. Next, she switched to
the much larger pine pollen that annually blankets the area in yellow dust for
weeks. After that, she zeroed in dandelion and azalea pollens and the foot of
housefly.

“I’ve seen what seems like a million SEM images, but this was way more
interesting,” Payne said at the end of the demonstration.

This class is far from simply looking at cool images under the electron
microscope, however. After Leddy left the Zoom meeting, the class turned to
assigned problem sets. And, in lieu of the lab report, because the portable
SEM doesn’t have the feature to do elemental analysis, Payne required the
students to conduct a literature review and write a proposal as if to a
funding agency justifying the value of imaging a particular material using a
scanning electron microscope.

## Related News

April 17, 2020

### A Bee’s Knees and Toilet Paper’s Fibrous Jungles—in Super-High Resolution

November 01, 2018

### Separating Materials Science from Fiction

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

