

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Decoding Multiple Frames from a Single, Scattered Exposure

September 27, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

Coded apertures and “memory effect” reconstruct sequence of diffuse images

Engineers at Duke University have developed a way to extract a sequence of
images from light scattered through a mostly opaque material -- or even off a
wall -- from one long photographic exposure. The technique has applications in
a wide range of fields from security to healthcare to astronomy.

The study appeared online on September 10 in the journal Scientific Reports.

“When I explain to people what this algorithm can do, it sounds like magic,”
said Michael Gehm, associate professor of electrical and computer engineering
at Duke. “But it’s really just statistics and a ton of data.”

When light gets scattered as it passes through a translucent material, the
emerging pattern of “speckle” looks as random as static on a television screen
with no signal. But it isn’t random. Because the light coming from one point
of an object travels a path very similar to that of the light coming from an
adjacent point, the speckle pattern from each looks very much the same, just
shifted slightly.

With enough images, astronomers used to use this “memory effect” phenomenon to
create clearer images of the heavens through a turbulent atmosphere, as long
as the object being imaged is sufficiently compact.

The technique fell out of favor with the development of adaptive optics, which
do the same job by using adjustable mirrors to compensate for the scattering.

A few years ago, however, the memory effect technique became popular with
scientists again. Because modern cameras can record hundreds of millions of
pixels at a time, only a single exposure is needed to make the statistics
work.

While this approach can reconstruct a scattered image, it has its limitations.
The object has to remain motionless and the scattering medium has to be
constant.

Gehm’s new approach to memory effect imaging breaks through these limitations
by extracting a sequence of images from a single, long exposure.

The trick is to use a coded aperture. Think of this as a set of filters that
allow light to pass through some areas but not others in a specific pattern.
As long as this pattern is known, scientists can computationally extract what
the original image looked like.

Gehm’s new technique uses a sequence of coded apertures to stamp which light
is coming from which moment in time. But because each image is collected on a
single, long photographic exposure, the resulting speckle ends up even more of
a jumbled mess than usual.

“People thought that the resulting speckle pattern would be too random to
separate out the individual frames,” said Gehm. “But it turns out that today’s
cameras have such amazing resolution that if you look closely, there’s still
enough of a pattern to computationally get a toehold and tease them apart.”

In their experiment, a simple sequence of four backlit letters appeared one
after the other behind a coded aperture and a scattering material. The shutter
of a 5.5-megapixel CCD camera was left open for more than a minute during the
sequence to gather the images.

While the best results were achieved with a 100-second exposure time, good
results could still be obtained with much shorter exposure times. After only a
few seconds of processing, the computer successfully returned the individual
images of a D, U, K and E from the sequence. The researchers then showed the
approach also works when the scattering medium is changed, and even when both
the images and scattering mediums are changing.

The best results were achieved when the letters appeared for 25 seconds each
because the intensity of the backlight was not very high to begin with, and
was even further diminished by the coded aperture and scattering material. But
with a more sensitive camera or a brighter source, there’s no reason the
approach couldn’t be used to capture live-action images, Gehm said.

The technique has many potential applications. Not only does it work for light
scattering through a material, it would also work for light scattering off of
a surface -- say the paint on a wall. This could allow security cameras to
work around corners or even through frosted glass.

In the medical arena, many light-based devices look to gather data through
skin and other tissues -- such as a Fitbit capturing a person’s pulse through
their wrist. Light scattering as it travels through the skin and flowing blood
cells, however, poses a challenge to more advanced measurements. This
technique may provide a path forward.

“We’re also looking to see if this approach can be used to separate different
aspects of light, particularly color,” said Gehm. “One could imagine using
coded apertures to gain more information about a single image rather than
using it to obtain a sequence of images.”

This work was supported by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency
(HR0011-16-C-0027).

CITATION: “Single-shot memory-effect video,” Xiaohan Li, Andrew Stevens, Joel
A. Greenberg & Michael E. Gehm. Scientific Reports, Sept. 7, 2018. DOI:
10.1038/s41598-018-31697-8

https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-018-31697-8

# # #

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

