

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Science and Storytelling Collide in PhD Plus Program

November 23, 2016

Liz Neeley from The Story Collider podcast teaches graduate students how to
include storytelling in their communications

An overnight slumber party at a science museum. Participating in a piece of
peer-reviewed research as a high-schooler. An enthusiastic teacher adorning
the classroom wall with a memorable piece of animal anatomy.

Conducting research isn’t always a slog through daily routines. Most every
scientist has had a transformational moment—either personally or
professionally—that transcends measurements, field notes and experiments.
Those are the moments that can transfix an audience and make science seem more
vivid and tangible then they had ever imagined.

That was the message to a room full of Duke Engineering PhD students as Liz
Neeley, executive director of the popular podcast Story Collider, taught them
how to work narrative into their communications.

“I thought the event was very helpful in making us think of how we narrate our
scientific work, especially with the suggestion of starting and ending a
narrative with an action,” said Mercy Asiedu, a graduate student in biomedical
engineering. “That really keeps the audience engaged from the start, instead
of just going blandly into ‘my research is so and so.’ It made me more aware
of what I lacked in narration and gave me really good pointers for future
scientific presentations.”

If you’ve ever heard of The Moth, you have a pretty good idea of how Story
Collider works. In both series, a number of people come to the stage to tell a
personal story from their lives, often evoking laughter as well as deep
introspection. The difference between the two is that Story Collider features
narratives from scientists.

The storytelling seminar was the capstone event this semester for Duke
Engineering’s PhD Plus program—a student-led initiative that conducts
workshops and connects graduate students with internship and networking
opportunities for those interested in careers outside of academia. This
semester focused on communications, with previous workshops on improv and
science communications.

The three-hour event featured a lecture and hands-on activities directed by
Neely, a marine biologist who has spent the last decade helping scientists
around the world tell more compelling stories about their work.

The lecture focused on the benefits of storytelling in science communications,
complete with examples of how seemingly insignificant events can draw in the
attention of an audience. The second part of the workshop saw graduate
students using mind-mapping and pitching techniques to home in on and develop
their own stories.

“I found the seminar to be very useful,” said Ugonna Ohiri, a graduate student
in electrical and computer engineering. “Liz did a great job teaching us how
to frame our scientific experiences into personal stories. We did some really
helpful interpersonal hands-on-exercises, where we were able to share our deep
human scientific stories amongst our colleagues—it was a rewarding Friday
night!”

Learn more about PhD Plus at phdplus.pratt.duke.edu.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

