

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Separating Materials Science from Fiction

November 1, 2018

“Materials Science of Science Fiction” course premieres in Spring 2019

Assuming that you have, by now, seen the blockbuster movie _Black Panther,_
we’ll also assume that you’re familiar with vibranium, the fictional element
that powers Wakandan technology and gives the title hero’s panther suit the
power to absorb and redirect massive amounts of kinetic energy.

You have to be willing to suspend disbelief to watch science fiction movies
like _Black Panther_ —but for those of you who still found yourselves
questioning whether the Second Law of Thermodynamics could really allow energy
to be transmitted in such a manner, you’ll be pleased to learn of a new
elective class at Duke set to begin in Spring of 2019, titled “The Materials
Science of Science Fiction.”

MEMS Associate Professor Christine Payne, whose research focuses on cellular
interactions with materials, will teach the course. Payne will encourage
students to use their own analytical superpowers to separate science from
fiction, assessing and testing the limits of materials both real and imagined.
In addition to considering _Black Panther_ from a scientific perspective, the
students will read two sci-fi books—Neal Stephenson’s novel _The Diamond Age,_
and Kelly Robson’s novella “We Who Live in the Heart,” and consider the
feasibility of the technology portrayed in each.

> “Engineers are main characters in these works. That could be inspiring.”
>
> Christine Payne, Associate Professor, MEMS

“Some of these materials do exist, and we’ll talk about how they work,” said
Payne. In _The Diamond Age,_ for example, scanning tunneling microscope
technology is pivotal to the plot, and the author imagines that everyone has
access to wearable electron microscopy.

To advance the students’ understanding of that type of imaging, they’ll be
challenged to complete their own electron microscopy projects at Duke’s Shared
Materials Instrumentation Facility. But, Payne warned, students won’t get away
from solving problem sets. “You have to have physics, chemistry and calculus
knowledge,” she said. “There will be differential equations. For example, in
Robson’s short story the characters 3D print everything to save weight—but if
you actually calculate the weight of the printers and polymers, is it working
out in their favor?

Payne said her aim is not to create a hyper-informed club of sci-fi debunkers,
but rather to encourage students to think about the limits of what’s possible.

Payne, a fan of classic science fiction writers like Margaret Atwood and
Ursula K. LeGuin, hopes that the course’s reading and writing components will
help produce well-rounded students, and also offer undergraduate mechanical
engineering students who are interested in continuing their studies a bigger
taste of the field of materials science.

And, of course, it will give the students a bit of room to let their
imaginations run wild. “Engineers are main characters in these works,” said
Payne. “That could be inspiring.”

Meet Our Materials Science Faculty

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

