

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Sharrin Manor: My Bass Connections Pathway

August 12, 2015

Sharrin Manor ECE'16 participated in the Bass Connections Project Team "The
University as a Laboratory for Smart Grid Data Analytics."

_Originally posted by Duke Bass Connections_

Electrical & Computer Engineering and Computer Science ’16  
Bass Connections Project Team: The University as a Laboratory for Smart Grid
Data Analytics

I’m from southern California and I came to Duke for the amazing resources and
opportunities available to undergraduates.

Energy is one of the biggest problems facing our world in the next 20 years.
Big data is a tool we can take advantage of to get insight into how we’re
using energy, and how we can use less. I have an engineering and computer
science background, and I was interested in developing a product for consumers
or utility companies.

Getting a bill once a month isn’t useful for reducing energy waste from
appliances. With a smart grid, you can see the energy use and exactly how much
each appliance is using every second.

Our project team focused on the Duke Smart Home. Using algorithms, we
determined whether an appliance is turned on or off and how much energy it’s
using, then we built a predictive model. So the same day there’s an anomaly,
the system can send an alert and Duke can fix it immediately.

There was a mix of undergrads and grad students. In our research for the
project we developed an idea of what the smart grid system in the U.S. is
like, and how to apply the algorithm in real life. We met with people from all
fields to figure out how a real world problem can be answered. Through this
project I developed an understanding of the energy world and how I can be a
part of it.

I’m doing the Data+ internship over the summer, analyzing the solar potential
of rooftops. Kyle Bradbury is my main mentor. Next year I will be taking a
data engineering class, and I’ll also be a teaching assistant for a freshman
engineering class because I got a lot out of the mentoring from my Bass
Connections project.

I was interested in how to tie electrical engineering and computer science
with energy. Bass Connections is great for that. Bass Connections takes you a
step outside the classroom and allows you to tie different skills together.

My advice to students is to develop good relationships with your peers and
mentors—it makes the learning process more fulfilling and will help you in the
future.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

