

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Simulating Blood Flow at the Cellular Level

August 6, 2019

Amanda Randles's revolutionary supercomputer blood flow simulator HARVEY is
poised to improve the diagnosis, prevention and treatment of human diseases

Amanda Randles, the Alfred Winborne Mordecai and Victoria Stover Mordecai
Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering at Duke University, is
developing a massively parallel fluid dynamics simulation called HARVEY
capable of modeling the full human arterial system at subcellular resolution.
The visionary program is already fostering discoveries that could improve the
diagnosis, prevention and treatment of human diseases.

With a long history of developing and applying high-performance computing to
biomedical problems, HARVEY combined Randles's knowledge of applied physics,
computational methods and parallel computing to develop a physiologically
accurate model of the movement of red blood cells throughout the body. One of
her recent successes mapped 500 billion fluid points using a supercomputer
with 1.6 million cores (individual processors), marking the first time a
researcher had been able to effectively model the flow of blood at the
cellular level.

Former Duke undergraduate turned research associate Harvey Shi is working to
create a Graphical User Interface for the program. Once completed, physicians
will be able to use virtual reality or augmented reality systems to better
understand an individual's blood flow to make more informed decisions about
treatment options such as where to place a stent. Randles is also working to
simulate how circulating tumor cells move through the vascular system to
predict where they're likely to end up and begin forming a new tumor.

For this latter project, Randles was selected to be one of 10 researchers to
get an early crack at using Aurora—the nation’s newest and largest
supercomputer. Housed at Argonne National Laboratory (ANL), Aurora will be the
nation’s first exascale supercomputer, capable of performing a quintillion
calculations per second upon its expected 2021 completion.

Randles ambitious projects have previously also made her one of five finalists
for the 2015 Gordon Bell Prize, the top honor in the field of supercomputing;
the recipient of the 2017 Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) Grace
Murray Hopper Award; and one of the MIT Technology Review's top "Innovators
Under 35" in 2017.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

