

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Slowly Pulling Proteins Apart Reveals Unexpected Path to Stability

August 8, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

Large proteins with multiple domains may have more stable conformations than
previously believed

Proteins are long strings of amino acids jumbled together like earphones left
inside of a pocket for too long. But while a protein’s mess of intertwined
knots may look haphazard, their specific folds are extremely important to
their biological functions. Misfolded proteins are thought to be the genesis
of diseases such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, Huntington's and cystic
fibrosis, just to name a few.

To get a detailed look at how different proteins are folded, researchers
freeze them in a crystalline structure and bombard them with extremely short
bursts of x-rays. By recording how the x-rays bounce off the samples,
scientists can reconstruct the different shapes—or conformations—that a
protein can take. They then use a variety of techniques to determine how the
proteins fold themselves into their final structures.

But there are limits to these techniques that have caused most studies to
focus on smaller, simpler proteins. The average protein found within a human
cell, however, is neither small nor simple. Most are more like an economy-
sized box of Christmas lights that have haven’t been opened in a decade.

In a new study, researchers at Duke University have taken a different approach
to studying the conformations of one of these larger proteins. By slowly
pulling apart a protein called Protein S, they discovered a previously unknown
stable conformation made possible by a little help from its best friend.

The results, to be published in the September 9, 2016 issue of the Journal of
Biological Chemistry (online on July 4, 2016), show that biochemists need to
start rethinking some of their assumptions.

“Our study shows that some of our field’s long-held ideas need to be revised,”
said Piotr Marszalek, professor of mechanical engineering and materials
science at Duke. “Previous assumptions that were made about large proteins
showing a lack of structure or stability might have been made too hastily.”

Traditional methods for determining protein structures and stability average
results from hundreds, if not thousands, of individual samples. While this may
give more reliable results, it misses stable conformations that don’t take
shape very often.

The new study instead used a method called single-molecule force-spectroscopy,
where a single protein is slowly pulled apart like a tangled ball of sticky
spaghetti.

One end of the protein is attached to a stationary object. The other end is
attached to a flexible sliver of glass that is sharpened to a point all the
way down to the atomic scale. As the glass slowly pulls on the molecule, it
bends from the resistance of the protein’s bonds before snapping back into
place when the bond breaks.

By looking at how much force is required to break each bond and measuring how
long it takes, researchers can compare the known structure of a protein to
their data to look for inconsistencies.

“When we looked at the data for Protein S, we found that one of its halves
showed too much variability between tests,” said Zack Scholl, a doctoral
student in Marszalek’s lab. “There had to be another unknown conformation that
it was taking.”

To discover this second conformation, Scholl worked with his other advisor,
Weitao Yang, professor of chemistry at Duke, to run computer simulations that
could explain the data. They discovered that one-half of the protein, called a
domain, was gaining stability from the other—a phenomenon that had never been
seen before.

“The protein as a whole is actually countering its own charge,” said Scholl.
“You have contradictory demands. One demand is negatively charged binding
sites on one domain’s surface that introduce this instability. But then you
also want to have a stable fold, so you bring in a positively charged part
from the other domain to stabilize it.”

Protein S is commonly found coating spores in nature, but nobody knows what it
does. Take it away from the spores, and they still spread and germinate new
plants and fungi just fine.

The protein is, however, extremely similar to many other proteins found
throughout the animal kingdom. In mammals, including humans, it bears a
striking resemblance to a protein found in our eyes’ lenses. These proteins
are extremely stable, not having to be replaced for years or even decades—a
far cry from others that are replaced on a daily basis.

Its complexity and stability were two of the reasons the trio of researchers
decided to study it. Understanding how the protein gets its stability may give
clues as to why other proteins lose theirs.

“The two domains kind of work together,” said Scholl. “So the protein may have
evolved for the two domains to rely on each other to help its stability.”

This work was supported by the National Science Foundation (GRFP 1106401, NSF
MCB-1052208, MCB-1517245) and the Katherine Goodman Stern Fellowship from the
Duke University Graduate School.

“Single-molecule force-spectroscopy reveals the calcium dependency of the
alternative conformations in the native state of a bg-crystallin protein.”
Zackary N. Scholl, Qing Li,Weitao Yang, and Piotr E. Marszalek. Journal of
Biological Chemistry, 2016. DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M116.729525.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

