

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Smart Home Dashboard to Better Visualize Energy Usage

April 11, 2018

An interdisciplinary team of students is developing a visualization dashboard
that will convey consumption data in an easily comprehensible manner

_By student writer Deepti Agnihotri_

Duke's Smart Home generates a lot of data about its energy usage, but no one
understands what it means--yet. To make sense of it all, an interdisciplinary
team of students is developing a visualization dashboard that will convey
consumption data in an easily comprehendible manner.

"We want to make the Smart Home more integrated with the technology around
it," said Harvey Shi, a senior double majoring in biomedical engineering and
computer science, and president of the Smart Home. The team, led by Rahul
Sengottuvelu, a sophomore in electrical and computer engineering, includes
students from various disciplines, from computer science to visual studies.

Sujay Garlanka, a junior studying electrical and computer engineering, said
the Smart Home has e-gauges installed that show how much energy the appliances
are consuming. The e-gauges constantly push data to the internet via an
application programming interface—or API—which is a set of subroutine
definitions, protocols and tools for building application software. However,
the current dashboard's visualization is unintuitive.

Using a virtual machine and Python script to put the data on their own
database, the students are experimenting with TABLEAU, a data visualization
software, to design an interface that is easy to follow thanks to funding
support from the Duke University Energy Initiative, the university's
interdisciplinary hub for energy education, research, and engagement.

"If we have all this data in our database, we can visualize it however we
want," Garlanka said.

Right now, the team has mainly been trying to understand what the data can
show and discern what residents would be interesting in seeing.

"What questions are interesting to ask the data? Are there particular patterns
that are interesting....we don't really know that," said Camilla Vargas, a
senior majoring in visual studies.

Vargas, who is writing her thesis on the Smart Home, became involved with the
project after hearing about it from a professor. She said working with the
team has been fun but also challenging with everyone looking at the problem
from different disciplines and perspectives.

"We all speak different languages...and that's the challenge of every student
group, figuring out how to communicate with each other," Vargas said.

Vargas went on to say that the Smart Home is a continuously evolving space
that has "found its identity" multiple times since it was first built. She
said it started off as an engineering-focused construction project and then
became a makerspace once the Home was complete. But with the opening of the
Innovation Co-Lab and Design Pod, the Smart Home must find its identity again.

"Data might be the next hub," Vargas said.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

