

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# A Speedier and More Accurate Future for Airport Security Screening

February 19, 2020

Representative David Price saw how Duke capabilities are enabling next-gen
systems to screen for explosives in airports

On February 18, US Representative for North Carolina’s 4th congressional
district David Price visited Duke Engineering to learn how airport screening
technologies have advanced in recent years. Representative Price was briefed
by Duke electrical and computer engineering (ECE) research professor Joel
Greenberg, ECE associate professor Michael Gehm and associate professor of
radiology Anuj Kapadia, who are principals in a $5.83 million Department of
Homeland Security (DHS) project to reinvent airport screening.

> As threats to aviation security evolve, technologies capable of detecting
> new threats must evolve at the same pace.

As threats to aviation security evolve, technologies capable of detecting new
threats must evolve at the same pace—preferably, while causing the least
amount of disturbance to travelers and the most value to taxpayers. The goal
of the Duke researchers is to use advanced simulation techniques to inform the
design and build of a new generation of explosives detection systems for use
in U.S. airports. The system uses x-ray diffraction measurements in
combination with conventional x-ray transmission for highly accurate, high-
throughput baggage screening.

During the researchers’ presentation, Price noted that he sometimes travels
with a bag of ground coffee and wondered why it frequently causes him trouble
at airport screening checkpoints. Greenberg had the answer.

Because x-ray transmission scanners, which measure the rays passing through an
object, cannot always effectively differentiate between substances, a bag of
coffee—with its highly-variable density—can be difficult to distinguish from
prohibited items via conventional x-ray systems. But x-ray diffraction, which
measures the rays’ interactions with the materials passing through the
screening checkpoint, could recognize the unique molecular signature of coffee
and quickly clear the false red flag to speed a busy traveler on his way.

The transmission-plus-diffraction technique holds additional interest for DHS
because it can be applied to other classes of materials. For example, it can
help differentiate between harmless drugs like aspirin and potentially lethal
opioids entering the US from other countries—opioids which, Kapadia noted,
might look like aspirin, or might bear a resemblance to ground coffee beans
when viewed using conventional x-ray transmission imaging methods.

The Duke team can design a more accurate and cost-effective screening system
by simulating the contents of tens of millions of virtual duffels and
suitcases before shipping a physical system—an expensive endeavor in terms of
both time and money—to a government lab for certification, added Gehm.
Currently, a system might be tested on hundreds or thousands of bags, but it’s
a small sample considering that 2.7 million people fly in and out of U.S
airports every day, most of them carrying luggage. Simulations give developers
a bigger pool of data and a better idea of what is likely to alarm the system.

“We’re standing on the shoulders of existing technologies,” Greenberg told
Price, “but we can do a better job of getting past the clutter."

## Related News

October 10, 2019

### Safe Travels

December 07, 2018

### Duke to Lead $5.83 Million DHS Project to Reinvent Airport Screening

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

