

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Sound Waves Spin Droplets to Concentrate, Separate Nanoparticles

December 18, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

New centrifuge-like device concentrates and separates biomedically important
nanoparticles in tiny samples in less than a minute

Mechanical engineers at Duke University have devised a method for spinning
individual droplets of liquid to concentrate and separate nanoparticles for
biomedical purposes. The technique is much more efficient than traditional
centrifuge approaches, working its magic in under a minute instead of taking
hours or days, and requires only a tiny fraction of the typical sample size.
The invention could underline new approaches to applications ranging from
precision bioassays to cancer diagnosis.

The results appear online on December 18 in the journal _Science Advances_.

“This idea originated from a very exciting recent finding that you can use
surface acoustic waves to spin a droplet of liquid,” said Tony Jun Huang, the
William Bevan Distinguished Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science at Duke. “We decided to investigate whether we could use this method
to create a point-of-care system that can separate and enrich nanoparticles
quickly and efficiently.”

Huang and his doctoral student Yuyang Gu began their investigation by building
a device capable of spinning individual droplets of liquid. In the center of a
piezoelectric surface sits a ring of polydimethylsiloxane, a type of silicon
commonly used in microfluidic technologies, which confines the droplet’s
boundaries and keeps it in place. The researchers then placed a sound wave
generator called a interdigitated transducer (IDT) on each side and slanted
them so that sound waves with different frequencies travel through the
piezoelectric surface to enter the droplet.

When turned on, the IDTs create surface acoustic waves that push on the sides
of the droplets like Donald Duck getting blown over by a gigantic pair of
speakers. At low power settings, the top of the droplet begins to wobble
around the ring like a muffin top made of Jell-O dessert. But when the power
gets turned up to 11, the balance between the surface tension of the droplet
and its centrifugal force causes it to take on the shape of a pill and begin
spinning in place.

The researchers then investigated how fluorescent nanoparticles of different
sizes behaved within the spinning droplets. Because the droplet is spinning,
the nanoparticles themselves also got dragged along in a helical pattern.
Depending on their size and the frequency of sound, they were also pushed
toward the center of the droplet due to the incoming force of the sound waves
and hydrodynamics.

The researchers found that by using different frequencies, they could
specifically concentrate particles as small as tens of nanometers. These sizes
correlate to biologically important molecules such as DNA and
exosomes—biological nanoparticles released from every type of cell in the body
that are thought to play an important role in cell-to-cell communication and
disease transmission.

But they were still faced with another problem. While nanoparticles of one
size flocked to the center of the droplet, nanoparticles of other sizes were
still flying randomly about, making it difficult to access the concentrated
bounty.

Their solution? A second spinning droplet.

“We set up two droplets of different sizes next to each other so that they’d
be spinning at different speeds,” said Gu. “By connecting them with a small
channel, any nanoparticles not concentrating in the first end up spinning off
and getting trapped in the second.”

To further show how useful their dual-droplet centrifugal system could be, the
researchers showed that it could successfully separate subpopulations of
exosomes from a sample. And unlike common centrifugation methods that require
large amount of samples and can take overnight to work, their solution only
needed a much smaller sample volume—such as five microliters—and less than a
minute.

“We envision this work simplifying and speeding up sample processing,
detection and reagent reactions in various applications such as point-of-care
diagnostics, bioassays and liquid biopsies,” said Gu.

“The ability to separate and enrich exosome subpopulations and other
biological nanoparticles is extremely important.” added Huang. “For example,
while the recent discovery of exosome subpopulations has excited biologists
and researchers due to their potential to revolutionize the field of non-
invasive diagnostics, exosome sub-populations have yet to be utilized in
clinical settings. This is largely due to the difficulties associated with
separating exosome subpopulations because of their small size. Our approach
offers a simple, automated approach for separating exosome sub-populations in
a fast and biocompatible manner. As a result, we believe that it is critical
to unlocking the clinical utility of exosome subpopulations.”

This research was supported by the National Institutes of Health (UG3TR002978,
R01GM132603, R01GM135486, R33CA223908, R01GM127714, R01HD086325), the United
States Army Medical Research Acquisition Activity (W81XWH-18-1-0242), and the
National Science Foundation (ECCS-1807601).

CITATION: “Acoustofluidic Centrifuge for Nanoparticle Enrichment and
Separation,” Yuyang Gu, Chuyi Chen, Zhangming Mao, Hunter Bachman, Ryan
Becker, Joseph Rufo, Zeyu Wang, Peiran Zhang, John Mai, Shujie Yang, Jinxin
Zhang, Shuaiguo Zhao, Yingshi Ouyang, David T.W. Wong, Yoel Sadovsky, Tony Jun
Huang. Science Advances, Dec. 18, 2020. DOI: sciadv.abc0467

## Related News

September 10, 2020

### Sound Waves Replace Human Hands in Petri Dish Experiments

September 18, 2017

### Sound Waves Separate Biological Nanoparticles for 'Liquid Biopsies'

January 26, 2017

### Sound Waves Create Whirlpools to Round Up Tiny Signs of Disease

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

