

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Holographic Imaging and Deep Learning Diagnose Malaria

September 16, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

New technique is accurate enough for field use and could alleviate diagnosis
bottlenecks in resource-limited areas

Duke researchers have devised a computerized method to autonomously and
quickly diagnose malaria with clinically relevant accuracy -- a crucial step
to successfully treating the disease and halting its spread.

In 2015 alone, malaria infected 214 million people worldwide, killing an
estimated 438,000.

While Western medicine can spot malaria with near-perfect accuracy, it can be
difficult to diagnose in resource-limited areas where infection rates are
highest.

Malaria’s symptoms can look like many other diseases, and there are simply not
enough well-trained field workers and functioning microscopes to keep pace
with the parasite. While rapid diagnostic tests do exist, it is expensive to
continuously purchase new tests. These tests also cannot tell how severe the
infection is by tallying the number of infected cells, which is important for
managing a patient’s recovery.

In a new study, engineers from Duke University report a method that uses
computer ‘deep learning’ and light-based, holographic scans to spot malaria-
infected cells from a simple, untouched blood sample without any help from a
human. The innovation could form the basis of a fast, reliable test that could
be given by most anyone, anywhere in the field, which would be invaluable in
the $2.7 billion-per-year global fight against the disease.

The results were published online Sept. 16 in the journal PLOS ONE.

“With this technique, the path is there to be able to process thousands of
cells per minute,” said Adam Wax, professor of biomedical engineering at Duke.
“That’s a huge improvement to the 40 minutes it currently takes a field
technician to stain, prepare and read a slide to personally look for
infection.”

The new technique is based on a technology called quantitative phase
spectroscopy. As a laser sweeps through the visible spectrum of light, sensors
capture how each discrete light frequency interacts with a sample of blood.
The resulting data captures a holographic image that provides a wide array of
valuable information that can indicate a malarial infection.

“We identified 23 parameters that are statistically significant for spotting
malaria,” said Han Sang Park, a doctoral student in Wax’s laboratory and first
author on the paper. For example, as the disease progresses, red blood cells
decrease in volume, lose hemoglobin and deform as the parasite within grows
larger. This affects features such as cell volume, perimeter, shape and center
of mass.

“However, none of the parameters were reliable more than 90 percent of the
time on their own, so we decided to use them all,” said Park.

“To be adopted, any new diagnostic device has to be just as reliable as a
trained field worker with a microscope,” said Wax. “Otherwise, even with a 90
percent success rate, you’d still miss more than 20 million cases a year.”

To get a more accurate reading, Wax and Park turned to deep learning -- a
method by which computers teach themselves how to distinguish between
different objects. By feeding data on more than 1,000 healthy and diseased
cells into a computer, the deep learning program determined which sets of
measurements at which thresholds most clearly distinguished healthy from
diseased cells.

When they put the resulting algorithm to the test with hundreds of cells, it
was able to correctly spot malaria 97 to 100 percent of the time -- a number
the researchers believe will increase as more cells are used to train the
program. Because the technique breaks data-rich holograms down to just 23
numbers, tests can be easily transmitted in bulk, which is important for
locations that often do not have reliable, fast internet connections, and
that, in turn, could eliminate the need for each location to have its own
computer for processing.

Wax and Park are now looking to develop the technology into a diagnostic
device through a startup company called M2 Photonics Innovations. They hope to
show that a device based on this technology would be accurate and cost-
efficient enough to be useful in the field. Wax has also received funding to
begin exploring the use of the technique for spotting cancerous cells in blood
samples.

This work was supported by the National Science Foundation (IIP-1346349), the
National Institutes of Health (R01-CA167421), the World Anti-Doping Agency,
and the Burroughs Wellcome Fund.

“Automated detection of P. falciparum using machine learning algorithms with
quantitative phase images of unstained cells.” Han Sang Park, Matthew T.
Rinehart, Katelyn A. Walzer, Jen-Tsan Ashley Chi, Adam Wax. PLOS ONE, 2016.
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0163045

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

