

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Startup Stories

October 10, 2019

Eighteen spinoffs—and counting!—have grown from Duke ECE’s pioneering research
in quantum computing, metamaterials, advanced sensing, robotics, and more

### A Super Position

Quantum binary digits, or qubits, are the superheroes of computing, and their
superpowers lie in their beyond-binary abilities and secret correlations among
them. Unlike traditional bits, which represent a piece of information as
either a 0 or a 1, qubits can represent both simultaneously, in a so-called
superposition state. Qubits can also contain strong, fundamental ties among
them, known as entanglement. When combined, these superpowers allow quantum
computers to solve some complex problems with a speed unmatched by any
traditional computers today—or, for that matter, at any time in the
predictable future.

Companies really want quantum computers, and therefore really want to partner
with quantum scientists. For Duke Engineering’s Jungsang Kim, it’s a super
position to be in. IonQ, Inc., the company Kim co-founded with the University
of Maryland’s Chris Monroe in 2015, has captured $22 million in funding to
date: $2 million in seed funding from New Enterprise Associates (NEA), and an
additional $20 million in funding from GV (formerly Google Ventures), Amazon
Web Services, and NEA. The funding allowed IonQ to scale its team up to 37
employees and build two of the most accurate quantum computers in existence in
two short years.

> “This could be a once-in-a-lifetime type of opportunity to shape the future
> of quantum computing technology.”
>
> —Duke ECE professor jungsang Kim

“The future of quantum computing as an industry is somewhat uncertain,” said
Kim. “Since quantum computers have never existed, there are no existing
companies whose market is built on quantum computers.” He said that the
situation is not dissimilar from the days when first digital computers were
built in the 1940s. Those computers were built to tackle specific problems of
interest to the government, but when their capabilities became more widely
available, new industries flourished in ways that no one expected—and would
continue to thrive over the seven decades that followed.

“It is extremely exciting to be in the driver’s seat in defining what the
future industry of quantum computing is going to look like,” said Kim. “This
could be a once-in-a-lifetime type of opportunity to shape the future of
quantum computing technology. And,” he added, “we are always looking for
enthusiastic young minds to join us in our journey.”

### The Serial Entrepreneur

Metamaterials are artificially structured materials whose electromagnetic
properties can be tailored and tuned in novel ways—but the term
“metamaterials” is more of a design approach than a class of devices or
components, according to David Smith, the James B. Duke Professor of
Electrical and Computer Engineering and Director of the Center for
Metamaterials and Integrated Plasmonics at Duke. In Smith’s lab, engineers
learn to control and manipulate the flow of light and other wave excitations.
Their work has led to unbelievable discoveries, like electromagnetic cloaking
devices that “hide” objects by rerouting waves around them, and satellite
communication terminals that electronically acquire, steer and lock waves to
satellites.

In the young field of metamaterials, opportunities to commercialize the
technologies abound. In 2012, communications company Kymeta spun off from
research performed in Smith’s lab. Smith co-founded Evolv Technology the
following year, Echodyne Corporation in 2014, Pivotal Commware in 2015, and
Metacept in 2018—all metamaterials-based ventures, running from security
imaging to antenna design. Two other spinoffs, Lumotive and Carillon, have
launched from Smith’s lab since 2017.

“What has been so compelling—almost addictive—about metamaterials is the
ability to exert unprecedented control over the properties of a material or
other device,” said Smith.

### Getting Your Hands Dirty

A week into his PhD work at Duke, Joseph Andrews found himself behind a local
mechanic’s shop, hacking apart discarded tires with a grinding saw—a far cry
from what he imagined he’d be doing as a student in professor Aaron Franklin’s
nanotechnology research lab.

Though not the most glamorous, Andrews’s project—developing printed electronic
sensors to measure automobile tire tread—not only funded his space in the lab,
but eventually led to multiple patents and a funded startup company.

> A week into his PhD work at Duke, Joseph Andrews found himself behind a
> local mechanic’s shop, hacking apart discarded tires with a grinding saw.

According to Andrews, their invention is pretty simple. It’s a capacitor-based
device, which means it measures electrical energy between a pair of
electrodes. As the thickness of the material between two electrodes changes,
the electric field is also altered, leading to a measurable change in
capacitance.

Andrews started with a parallel plate capacitor that used two plates—one in
the wheel well and one inside the tire—to measure the material between them.
“Of course I was doing good experiments, and moving the plates farther and
farther apart until the wheel well plate was removed completely,” said
Andrews. “When I did, I got a measurement from a single side, which I didn’t
think was possible.” This discovery led to the demonstration of a sensor that
can be fully contained within a tire and capable of measuring changes in the
tire’s tread thickness.

This kind of capacitance uses electrical field lines that arc, called cross-
capacitance. It’s commonly used with technology like touchscreens, but Andrews
was the first to apply it toward measuring the thickness of a material. The
end product, a sensor with an electrode made using materials such as carbon
nanotubes, spun off into a tire sensor company named Tyrata that secured $4.5
million in series A funding last year to develop the demonstrated sensor into
a viable product.

For Andrews, it means a credit as lead inventor on several U.S. and
international patents. Hopefully, for the rest of us, it will mean the end of
jamming pennies into our tire treads to check for wear.

### Entrepreneur-in-Residence

Vamsee Pamula co-founded his first company, Advanced Liquid Logic, as an ECE
postdoctoral researcher in Lord-Chandran Professor of Engineering Richard
Fair’s microfluidics lab. Working alongside Fair, fellow postdoc Michael
Pollack PhD ’01, and Richard West BSE ’79, Pamula grew the fledgling lab-on-a-
chip company to a 90-employee enterprise over the next nine years, before
selling it to genomics giant Illumina in 2013 for nearly $100 million. Pamula
and West launched a second company, Baebies, the very same day, capitalizing
upon digital microfluidics and other technologies to deliver rapid testing for
newborns— testing for several rare diseases using a single drop of blood, and
allowing doctors to quickly begin interventions.

The extra “e” in Baebies, said Pamula, is for “everyone,” signifying that
every baby deserves a healthy start. The spelling is a constant reminder of
their mission, and who they chose to serve.

In 2019, ECE brought Pamula back to Duke as its first entrepreneur-in-
residence. Pamula visits the department monthly to spend time with ECE
students and faculty who are interested in starting their own businesses,
offering advice in areas including idea development, securing intellectual
property, and commercialization of research.

### Call it Kismet

Professor of electrical and computer engineering Daniel Sorin jokes that a
computer architect and a roboticist must have never sat down to lunch together
before he and George Konidaris did. If they had, they would have soon
discovered that they were perfectly suited to start a robotic motion planning
company, and gotten a jump on the competition.

> “Five years ago I knew zero about robotics... I’m now the co-founder of a
> robotics company.”
>
> —DUKE ECE PROFESSOR DANIEL SORIN

“I met George at the State of the School address. He seemed to be doing
interesting work, so we went to lunch,” Sorin recalled. “He was talking about
open problems in his field, and one was motion planning, or how to quickly
move a robot from Point A to Point B without hitting stuff.”

Sorin told Konidaris that in his own field, computer architecture, the goal
was to improve upon processes that were slow, but important enough that they
warranted specially designed hardware.

“We looked at each other and thought, ‘Hm, I wonder if anyone has tried this
fusion before,’” said Sorin. They quickly determined that no one had.

From there, the pieces seemed to magically fall into place. Two excellent
students—ECE PhD candidate Sean Murray and Will Floyd-Jones, an undergraduate
double-majoring in ECE and computer science—were looking for projects, and
Sorin brought them on board. “But all of us—two academics and two students—we
knew nothing about business,” admitted Sorin.

Serendipitously, Duke Engineering had just named alumnus and entrepreneur Bill
Walker as the school’s first Mattson Family Director of Entrepreneurial
Ventures. “Bill very patiently answered a bazillion questions we had,” said
Sorin. “Then we were looking for a CEO, and Bill introduced us to Peter
Howard. We knew immediately that he was our guy. All these wonderfully timed
occurrences got us off the ground and helped us build our team.”

The team officially incorporated Realtime Robotics in 2016, to develop
special-purpose hardware and software that helps machines move through
unstructured or dynamic environments like factories and city streets.

Since that time, Realtime has raised funding from key investors including
Toyota AI Ventures, SPARX Group and Scrum Ventures. Realtime has grown to over
30 employees in their Boston-based headquarters. They’ve won R&D projects and
sold many processors, known as the RapidPlan MPA, with Fortune 50 customers
proving out the technology. This year, Realtime seeks to close Series A
funding and will further develop RapidPlan.

“Five years ago I knew zero about robotics,” said Sorin. “Thanks to this
series of happy coincidences, I’m now the co-founder of a robotics company.”

****

More from the 2019-2020 Duke ECE Magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

