

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Stretchable Supercapacitors to Power Tomorrow’s Wearable Devices

March 19, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

Researchers demonstrate robust supercapacitors that still work when stretched
to eight times their original size

Researchers at Duke University and Michigan State University have engineered a
novel type of supercapacitor that remains fully functional even when stretched
to eight times its original size. It does not exhibit any wear and tear from
being stretched repeatedly and loses only a few percentage points of energy
performance after 10,000 cycles of charging and discharging.

The researchers envision the supercapacitor being part of a power-independent,
stretchable, flexible electronic system for applications such as wearable
electronics or biomedical devices.

The results appear online March 19 in Matter, a journal from Cell Press. The
research team includes senior author Changyong Cao, assistant professor of
packaging, mechanical engineering and electrical and computer engineering at
Michigan State University (MSU), and senior author Jeff Glass, professor of
electrical and computer engineering at Duke. Their co-authors are doctoral
students Yihao Zhou and Qiwei Han and research scientist Charles Parker from
Duke, as well as PhD student Yunteng Cao from the Massachusetts Institutes of
Technology.

“Our goal is to develop innovative devices that can survive mechanical
deformations like stretching, twisting or bending without losing performance,”
said Cao, director of the Laboratory for Soft Machines and Electronics at MSU.
“But if the power source of a stretchable electronic device isn’t stretchable,
then the entire device system will be constrained to be non-stretchable.”

A supercapacitor (also sometimes referred to as an ultracapacitor) stores
energy like a battery, but with some important differences. Unlike batteries,
which store energy chemically and generate charges through chemical reactions,
an electrostatic double-layer supercapacitor (EDLSC), stores energy through
charge separation and cannot create its own electricity. It must be charged
from an outside source. During charging, electrons are built up on one part of
the device and removed from the other, so that when the two sides are
connected, electricity quickly flows between them.

Also unlike batteries, supercapacitors are able to discharge their energy in
short but massive bursts, rather than through a long, slow trickle. They can
also charge and discharge much faster than a battery and tolerate many more
charge-discharge cycles than a rechargeable battery. This makes them perfect
for short, high-power applications such as setting off the flash in a camera
or the amplifiers in a stereo.

But most supercapacitors are just as hard and brittle as any other component
on a circuit board. That’s why Cao and Glass have spent years working on a
stretchable version.

In their new paper, the researchers demonstrate the culmination of their work
to this point, fabricating a stamp-sized supercapacitor that can carry more
than two volts. When connecting four together, as many devices require for AA
or AAA batteries, the supercapacitors could power a two-volt Casio watch for
an hour and a half.

To make the stretchable supercapacitors, Glass and his research team first
grow a carbon nanotube forest -- a patch of millions of nanotubes just 15
nanometers in diameter and 20-30 micrometers tall -- on top of a silicon
wafer. That’s about the width of the smallest bacteria and height of the
animal cell it infects.

The researchers then coat a thin layer of gold nanofilm on top of the carbon
nanotube forest. The gold layer acts as a sort of electric collector, dropping
the resistance of the device an order of magnitude below previous versions,
which allows the device to charge and discharge much faster.

Glass then hands off the engineering process to Cao, who transfers the carbon
nanotube forest to a pre-stretched elastomer substrate with the base gold-
side-down. The gel-filled electrode is then relaxed to allow the pre-strain to
release, causing it to shrink to a quarter of its original size. This process
crumples up the thin layer of gold and smashes together the “trees” in the
carbon nanotube forest.

“The crumpling greatly increases the amount of surface area available in a
small amount of space, which increases the amount of charge it can hold,”
explained Glass. “If we had all the room in the world to work with, a flat
surface would work fine. But if we want a supercapacitor that can be used in
real devices, we need to make it as small as possible.”

The super dense forest is then filled with a gel electrolyte that can trap
electrons on the surface of the nanotubes. When two of these final electrodes
are sandwiched close together, an applied voltage loads one side with
electrons while the other is drained, creating a charged super-stretchable
supercapacitor.

“We still have some work to do for building a complete stretchable electronics
system,” Cao said. “The supercapacitor demonstrated in this paper doesn’t go
as far as we want it to yet. But with this foundation of a robust stretchable
supercapacitor, we will be able to integrate it into a system that consists of
stretchable wires, sensors and detectors to create entirely stretchable
devices.”

Stretchable supercapacitors, the researchers explain, could power some
futuristic devices on their own, or they could be combined with other
components to overcome engineering challenges. For example, supercapacitors
can be charged in a matter of seconds and then slowly recharge a battery that
acts as the primary source of energy for a device. This approach has been used
for regenerative breaking in hybrid cars, where energy is generated faster
than it can be stored. Supercapacitors increase the efficiency of the whole
system. Or as Japan has already demonstrated, supercapacitors can power a bus
for urban commuting, completing a full recharging at each stop in the short
time it takes to load and unload passengers.

“A lot of people want to couple supercapacitors and batteries together,” Glass
said. “A supercapacitor can charge rapidly and survive thousands or even
millions of charging cycles, while batteries can store more charge so they can
last a long time. Putting them together gives you the best of both worlds.
They fill two different functions within the same electrical system.”

This work was supported by the NSF (ECCS-1344745), USDA National Institute of
Food and Agriculture (Hatch Project 1016788), Michigan State University, and
the North Carolina Research Triangle Nanotechnology Network (RTNN), which is
supported by the NSF (ECCS-1542015).

CITATION: “Robust and High-Performance Electrodes via Crumpled Au-CNT Forests
for Stretchable Supercapacitors,” Yihao Zhou, Changyong Cao, Yunteng Cao,
Qiwei Han, Charles B. Parker, Jeffrey T. Glass. Matter, March 19, 2020. DOI:
10.1016/j.matt.2020.02.024

# # #

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

