

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# New Biomaterial Helps Regrow Brain Tissue After Stroke in Mice

May 21, 2018

New stroke-healing gel helped regrow neurons and blood vessels in mice with
stroke-damaged brains, hinting at what may someday be a new therapy for stroke
in people

_Adapted from a press release from UCLA_

In a first-of-its-kind finding, a new stroke-healing gel helped regrow neurons
and blood vessels in mice with stroke-damaged brains, Duke University and UCLA
researchers report in the May 21 issue of Nature Materials.

The results suggest that such an approach may someday be a new therapy for
stroke in people, said Tatiana Segura, professor of biomedical engineering at
Duke, who recently moved her laboratory from UCLA.

“We tested this in laboratory mice to determine if it would repair the brain
in a model of stroke, and lead to recovery,” said S. Thomas Carmichael,
professor and chair of neurology at UCLA, who collaborated on the study with
Segura. “This study indicated that new brain tissue can be regenerated in what
was previously just an inactive brain scar after stroke.”

The brain has a limited capacity for recovery after stroke and other diseases.
Unlike some other organs in the body, such as the liver or skin, the brain
does not regenerate new connections, blood vessels or new tissue structures.
Tissue that dies in the brain from stroke is absorbed, leaving a cavity,
devoid of blood vessels, neurons or axons, the thin nerve fibers that project
from neurons.

To see if healthy tissue surrounding the cavity could be coaxed into healing
the stroke injury, Segura engineered a gel to inject into the stroke cavity
that thickens to mimic the properties of brain tissue, creating a scaffolding
for new growth.

The gel is infused with molecules that stimulate blood vessel growth and
suppress inflammation, since inflammation results in scars and impedes
regrowth of functional tissue.

After 16 weeks, stroke cavities in mice contained regenerated brain tissue,
including new neural networks—a result that had not been seen before. The mice
with new neurons showed improved motor behavior, though the exact mechanism
wasn’t clear.

“The new axons could actually be working,” said Segura. “Or the new tissue
could be improving the performance of the surrounding, unharmed brain tissue.”

The gel was eventually absorbed by the body, leaving behind only new tissue.

This research was designed to explore recovery in acute stroke, or the period
immediately following stroke—in mice, that is five days; in humans, that is
two months. Next, Carmichael and Segura are determining if brain tissue can be
regenerated in mice long after the stroke injury. More than 6 million
Americans are living with the long-term outcomes of stroke, known as chronic
stroke.

In addition to Carmichael and Segura, other authors of the paper are Lina Nih
and Shiva Gojgini, both of UCLA.

The study was supported by funds from the National Institutes of Health.

CITATION: “Dual-function injectable angiogenic biomaterial for the repair of
brain tissue following stroke.” Lina R. Nih, Shiva Gojgini, S. Thomas
Carmichael and Tatiana Segura. Nature Materials, 2018. DOI:
10.1038/s41563-018-0083-8

# # #

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

