

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Student Designs Take Center Stage at BME Design Symposium

December 13, 2017

From teaching aids for reproductive health to cost-effective safety gear, the
second annual celebration showcased student innovation

If you want to what it means to be a biomedical engineering student at Duke
University, the BME Design Symposium is a great place to start. For three
hours on Monday night, the Fitzpatrick Center was filled with students who
were showing off their final projects, with presentation topics ranging from a
new way to make cost-efficient helmets to a timer that helps X-ray technicians
time the length of film exposure for development.

“This event gets better every year,” said BME’s Kevin Caves, one of the
professors who teaches a design course. “It’s a fantastic opportunity for our
students to showcase their work, and it really gives them a chance to shine.”

During the event, faculty and students perused the work and asked questions
about the projects, with select BME design faculty acting as judges to
determine which teams showcased the best design. In addition to this formal
design competition, students also had a chance to select their favorite
projects through the “People’s Choice” competition, which was determined based
on the amount of “Tosh Bucks”­­––fake bills that were decorated with the face
of Ashutosh Chilkoti, the chair of BME–– that each team received.

Ultimately, the “Insulin Bubble” team of Edward Liang and Sharon Sangermano
received first place for their device, which automates the reservoir filling
process for insulin pumps and prevents the buildup of air bubbles in the
reservoir. The “People’s Choice” award went to the “EE Genius” team of Anne Li
and Lysj Wyckoff, who designed an EEG system that allows the wearer to spell
messages on a computer without moving.

The 2017 Fall BME design symposium featured the work of students frorm design
courses taught by Kevin Caves, Robert Malkin, Patrick Wolf, first-time design
instructor Jonathan Viventi, and Roger Nightingale, who finished his tenure as
a BME design instructor with the event’s conclusion.

“Design can be terrifying because there is so much that you don’t know or
don’t foresee going into a project, but ultimately it’s an excellent learning
experience for our students,” said Nightingale. “It’s been wonderful to teach
design to BME seniors, and it’s great to see them motivated to show off their
final work.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

