

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Made It Easy to Find My Passion

September 27, 2017 | By Jeni Baker

Anagha Suchitra, MEM'17, has made the most of career-building
opportunities—including interning with Consumer Reports in New York City and
winning the 2017 Intuit Product Management Case Competition

Master of Engineering Management student Anagha Suchitra wanted to be a
product manager long before she knew that there is such a thing.

“Technology has always fascinated me—the process of innovation and how it
constantly changes to help people achieve their goals,” Suchitra said.

“I’ve wanted to be at the center of that—driving the technological innovation,
interacting with people, and building products that change lives—but before I
came to Duke, I didn’t know that such a career exists.”

Suchitra earned an undergraduate degree in electronics and communication
engineering in her native India. Prior to coming to Duke, she worked for
Accenture as a software product analyst, and the product she worked on was
launched.

“During the process, we got to know both the technology and the business sides
of it—how our product helped customers and impacted business—which was so
cool,” she says. “That’s when I decided to pursue a higher degree to help me
get more involved with that.

“I was impressed by what I read about the Duke MEM Program online, and when a
friend shared her experiences, I decided that Duke offered exactly what I was
looking for.

“With all the options and opportunities at Duke, it was easy to find my
passion in product management during my very first semester,” she said.
“Students have a lot of flexibility in choosing the paths they’re interested
in and the kinds of opportunities those paths provide.”

## “Best summer ever!”

The MEM Program requires that students complete an internship, and Suchitra
enthusiastically pursued the opportunity. Her online networking led to a phone
call with a product manager, then an interview, then a three-month internship
with Consumer Reports in New York City this summer.

“It was a great experience that I’m sure will propel me forward,” she said. “I
got solid experience dealing with actual product managers and doing real
things in the field I’m passionate about.”

Her time in NYC led to another career-building opportunity: a chance to
participate in Intuit’s Product Management Case Competition.

She and her partner, Pyay Aung San of New York University, developed a concept
for a bookkeeping application for small-business owners and built a prototype.

“Our task was to come up with a new, innovative, useful app that will make
people’s lives easier,” she said. “We interviewed real small-business owners
to get feedback on our prototype, and then brainstormed to make improvements
based on that feedback.”

Suchitra and San’s hard work paid off. They won first place in the
competition, traveling to Mountain View, Calif., in September 2017 to present
their product.

“The people at Intuit were really excited with what we came up with, and
thought it was great that we were able to build something that will be so
useful,” Suchitra said.

Not only is Intuit considering developing their app into an actual product,
she and San were awarded a $2,000 prize.

Suchitra—who plans to pursue a career as a product manager in the software
industry—documented her internship and the Intuit case competition on her
LinkedIn page, ending her series of posts with “Hands down, best summer ever!”

Brad Fox, associate dean of master’s programs for Duke Engineering, is
delighted by Suchitra’s activities and accomplishments through the MEM
Program.

“Anagha’s is the type of fantastic experience we hope all our students
participate in, whether it’s in academics, internships, or activities like
competitions,” he said.

“This is a wonderful example of a student coming here to get a master’s degree
to change the trajectory of their career, explore new opportunities and
experiences, and take advantage of everything that Duke has to offer.”

Suchitra agrees that her time at Duke has helped to prepare her for future
success: “The experiences I’ve had in the MEM Program have expanded my
abilities, developed my analytical and leadership skills, and built my
confidence to pursue this career.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

