

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# A Summer Spent Weightless

August 20, 2014 | By Ken Kingery

Duke engineering undergraduates conduct the experiment of a lifetime on a NASA
microgravity plane

It’s not every day that a researcher has to worry about securing pieces of
equipment to keep them from floating off during an experiment. But for a group
of Duke undergraduate students this summer, it was a major concern.

“During one of our trials I saw a washer from another team’s experiment float
past me,” said Deepak Sathyanarayan, a rising senior in biomedical engineering
at Duke University. “It was a surreal experience.”

Sathyanarayan led a group of Duke students including Carrina Dong (MEMS ’16)
and Roman Kowalchuk (BME ’15) who teamed with peers from Embry Riddle
Aeronautical University through NASA’s Reduced Gravity Education Flight
Program, which gives students the opportunity to conduct research on a
microgravity C-9 plane. Over the course of a year, the students came up with a
research idea, were accepted into the program, designed an experiment, went
through troubleshooting sessions and conducted their experiment.

Their research sought to figure out why some astronauts experience vision
impairment—including, occasionally, permanent vision loss—after spending more
than five months in microgravity. Although it is a heavily researched topic,
there have been no conclusive data to explain why it happens.

Most previous work has focused on the posterior chamber of the eye and the
dramatic retinal deformations that occur during space flight. The Duke and
Embry Riddle team, however, decided to study the cornea and the anterior
chamber—even though it may not be affected as much by space flight, they
reasoned that extended periods of zero gravity might make a significant
impact.

To test their hypothesis the team took on a two phase approach. First,
computational modeling of the fluid in the anterior chamber of eye let them
estimate of pressure profiles and fluid flow within the eye in microgravity
conditions. To empirically study the cornea in microgravity, the team then
took a tonometer on the microgravity plane. The device shoots a brief puff of
air onto an eyeball to measure its intraocular pressure by analyzing the
cornea’s deformation from the air pressure and how it returns to its original
shape. Over two days, 10 participating teams took flights lasting up to 90
minutes on the microgravity plane, which provided a series of sixty 17-second-
long periods of microgravity.

The computational models of the aqueous humor flow seemed to indicate a
dramatically different pressure environment for the cornea during space
flight. If the experimental results—which are still being analyzed—back up
these findings, there would be strong evidence for the cornea’s implication in
the deterioration of astronauts’ vision. Continuing studies of the cornea in
microgravity could then produce non-invasive solutions, allowing astronauts to
maintain peak performance during their missions.

“We hope that our study contributes to the ongoing efforts of leading
scientists around the world and simply points out another angle by which we
can understand and remedy the medical issues in space,” says Sathyanarayan,
who credits the collaboration with Embry-Riddle as being a key component of
their experiment’s launch.

Sathyanarayan grew up near Embry-Riddle and has always been fascinated by
their research. After transferring to Pratt from Trinity in the spring of
2013, he heard about the NASA microgravity research program and immediately
began brainstorming ideas. Sathyanarayan felt that Embry-Riddles’ expertise in
aerospace engineering would be beneficial, and through the help of many
faculty members at Duke and Embry-Riddle, he was able to organize a team to
make a proposal.

“Embry Riddle is one of the leading aeronautic universities in the nation, if
not the world,” said Sathyanarayan. “Combined with the nationally recognized
biomedical engineering department at Duke, we had a very strong team.”

For a closer look at their experience, watch the video the team put together
after the experience.

  
  
  

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

