

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Summer Story: Duke Senior Ashley Bolick Watches Wounds Heal

July 7, 2014 | by Ashley Mooney

Bolick, who is from Cary, NC, is studying the protein actin

Senior biomedical engineer Ashley Bolick is studying the mechanisms of wound
healing by developing programs that track the development of fruit fly embryos
over time.

Bolick, who is from Cary, N.C., is studying the role of the protein
actin—which forms cellular cytoskeletons—in fruit fly embryo development and
wound healing. She is working as a volunteer with Research Scientist Janice
Crawford and Biology Professor Dan Kiehart.

Using a green fluorescent dye and microscope, Bolick is able to take video
recordings of embryos under the microscope and trace their development over
time. She is currently working on improving and developing computer coding for
the tracking program.

Although her lab focuses on wound healing, Bolick’s project does not yet
involve wounding embryos, and instead focuses on refining the imaging
technology.

Bolick’s previous courses have helped guide her current research. She learned
about gene regulation and breeding flies with specific genes in her molecular
biology class. In a biomedical engineering imaging class, Bolick learned about
major imaging systems used in medicine, like X-rays and CT-scans.

“It’s cool being able to have that in the background and have the general
knowledge behind imaging,” Bolick said. “I feel like I have a good groundwork
to use as I'm looking at these images.”

She is currently collecting new data and analyzing old samples from 2007 so
that she can develop the code for her imaging program. She is averaging the
movies of the old samples so that she can get a baseline reading for the
embryos and determine any that don’t match the trends.

Bolick said she may continue working in the lab during the fall and might do a
senior thesis.

Besides her research, Bolick is involved with a religious group through Summit
Church called Summit College. She has also been involved with the Society of
Women Engineers, played on the Duke Quidditch team and helped civil engineers
with building canoes last year. After graduation, Bolick said she hopes to
work with image processing as a career, focusing on MRI’s.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

