

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Tarokh Joins Fields Institute for Research in Mathematical Sciences
Scientific Advisory Panel

March 8, 2018

The Fields Institute is an internationally recognized center for mathematical
research

Vahid Tarokh, the Rhodes Family Professor of Electrical and Computer
Engineering at Duke University, has joined the Scientific Advisory Panel for
the Fields Institute for Research in Mathematical Sciences.  
  
Based in Canada, the Fields Institute is an internationally recognized center
for mathematical research activity where mathematicians from academia,
business, industry and financial institutions can come together to carry out
research and formulate problems of mutual interest.  
  
Comprising distinguished thought leaders from around the world, the Scientific
Advisory Panel provides scientific leadership for the Fields Institute in
collaboration with its director.  
  
As a member of the panel beginning Fall 2018, Tarokh will evaluate and decide
on proposals for major thematic programs, suggest topics and organizers for
future programs, and approve the selection of speakers for the Institute’s
series of distinguished lectures.  
  
Tarokh joined the faculty of the Pratt School of Engineering at Duke
University in January 2018. A pioneer in communications and signal processing,
he helped invent the space-time codes that provide signal redundancy during
data transmission and are now used in most cellular phones, and also developed
foundational approaches to cognitive radios and distributed communication
techniques that are currently being deployed for sharing valuable spectral
resources.  
  
Tarokh’s research has since evolved to pursuing new formulations and
approaches to getting the most out of datasets. Current projects are focused
on representation, modeling, inference and prediction from data such as
determining how different people will respond to exposure to certain viruses,
predicting rare events from small amounts of data, formulation and calculation
of limits of learning from observations, and privacy and security for the
Internet of Things.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

