

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Teaching machines to watch TV

July 10, 2013 | by Karl Bates

Leslie Collins' signal processing group is working to turn moving pictures
into data that could be analyzed statistically

from _Duke Engineering: Leading Research 2013_

Watching TV is one of the things that computers cannot do better than humans.
They’re terrible at it, in fact. But Leslie Collins’ signal processing group
in ECE is working to change that.

The “big data” potential is vast: Turning a moving picture into data that
could be analyzed statistically in something approaching real time opens up
all sorts of questions to ask of security cameras, Google Street View,
environmental sensing images, just about anything visual.

Their interest in video analytics grew out of the Collins group’s work on
landmine detection. Looking at a long-running stream of 3-D ground-penetrating
radar scans as a military vehicle drove a bouncing and potentially mineladen
road in Iraq, assistant research professor Peter Torrione got to thinking
“It’s kind of a movie. We could probably get into video processing.”
Unfortunately, the best algorithms developed so far take a couple of seconds
per frame to make a statistical determination of whether there’s anything
unusual in the visual data. Smooth video shot at 30 or 40 frames per second
would quickly overwhelm such a system.

A big part of the problem for video analytics is that computers haven’t
learned their shapes yet. The state of the art in detecting a human is
developing, but can be thrown off by lighting, objects in the way, or the
camera angle, Torrione said. Show the computer a car in any orientation, and
it doesn’t have a clue.

With support from an industry partner, the group is now working to solve that
in a step-wise fashion. Their proof of concept so far is a rather spectacular
demonstration of a webcam and five PCs driving a red sports car at 130 miles
per hour on a winding mountain road in the video game Need for Speed. With no
more input than the video camera, the computers are interpreting what they see
on the screen and sending controls to the PS3 game console to operate the
virtual car’s steering, acceleration and brakes. It’s a remarkable advance for
natural vision recognition.

The system makes these interpretations and decisions rapidly enough that the
car doesn’t just go sailing off into oblivion, and it wins races against the
gaming console most of the time.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

