

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Ten Graduate Students Earn BME Fellowships

September 7, 2018

A new series of competitive graduate fellowships support research from BME PhD
students

In a new effort to support the innovative research of PhD students, Duke
University’s Department of Biomedical Engineering recently announced the
recipients of 10 fellowships available through the BME Second-Year Doctoral
Fellowship Program.

Of the 10 fellowships awarded through the department, seven were named in
honor the BME Emeritus faculty who were instrumental in crafting the vision
and charting the growth of Duke BME. The remaining fellowships included two
BME Second-Year Doctoral Fellowships and the William “Monty” Reichert
Fellowship, created to celebrate Reichert and his numerous contributions to
the department.

“We want to support our graduate students as they pursue challenging research
and advance biomedical engineering at Duke,” says Joel Collier, the director
of graduate studies in Duke BME. “This year we had an especially impressive
list of applicants.”

Intended for PhD students in the second year of their doctoral programs ,
these fellowships will support one year of research during their time in Duke
BME. To apply for the competitive funding opportunity, candidates had to
submit a one-page research description and a letter of recommendation from
their advisor, as well as show a strong academic record.

“The BME PhD students are the engine of our research enterprise,” says
Ashutosh Chilkoti, the chair of Duke BME. “I’m pleased that the department can
support their research through the BME Second-Year Doctoral Fellowship
Program.”

Congratulations to this year’s recipients.

### Derek Chan – The Theo Pilkington Fellowship

Undergraduate Institution: Duke University  
Advisor: Kathy Nightingale

Research: Prostate cancer is the most common cancer among men in the United
States, and early diagnosis is critical for effective management and
treatment. However, standard systematic prostate biopsies are not targeted to
suspicious regions, leading to a high rate of missed cancer. I am interested
in developing ultrasound elasticity imaging techniques to identify and target
prostate lesions with high precision. The stiffness of the entire prostate
gland can be visualized using this method, with cancerous lesions appearing
particularly stiff compared to healthy tissue. Ultimately, the development of
an elasticity-based targeted biopsy system will result in an accurate, low-
cost procedure for diagnostic confirmation of prostate cancer.

### Yuqi Tang - The BME Department Second Year Fellowship

Undergraduate Institution: Rice University  
Advisor: Junjie Yao

Research: Photoacoustic (PA) imaging uses optical absorption as the contrast
mechanism and thus visualizes the optical properties of tissue. By
complementing PA with ultrasound (US) imaging, which derives contrast from
echogenicity and differing mechanical properties of tissue, the dual-modality
imaging system can provide general structural and functional information at
the same time. One of my research interest is to develop a PAUS microscopy
that can monitor the functional disruption and remodeling of the brain’s small
vessels during and after stroke. The system will be able to map the small
blood vessel functions with rich spatial-temporal details and functional
capability, and quantify various morphological and hemodynamic parameters
(e.g. microvascular density, blood flow, blood oxygenation, etc.)

### Simbarashe Chidyagwai - The Morton H. Friedman Fellowship

Undergraduate Institution: Michigan State University  
Advisor: Amanda Randles

Research: My research focuses on quantifying and identifying the key
hemodynamic parameters affected by congenital coronary artery anomalies. I
intend to achieve this by accurately simulating blood flow in patients with
congenital coronary artery anomalies using a massively parallel hemodynamics
package developed in the Randles Lab. This allows me to gain insight into the
mechanisms by which congenital coronary artery anomalies lead to increased
risk of sudden cardiac death, and potentially provide physicians critical
predictive power to identify at-risk patients.

### Ishaan Puranam­­ - The James H. McElhaney Fellowship

Undergraduate Institution: Boston University  
Advisor: Brenton Hoffman

Research: Atherosclerosis is a cardiovascular disease state in which
pathological vascular wall thickening occurs preferentially in areas
exhibiting perturbed hemodynamics. However, the majority of mechanistic
research regarding this disease has focused on its genetic and biochemical
origins. This is largely due to the lack of tools that can probe mechanical
variables of the molecular length scales required for biochemical and cell
signaling-based studies. My project seeks to identify key components in the
pathological signaling pathway induced by alterations in the mechanical
microenvironment observed during atherosclerotic development.

### Teng Wang – The BME Department Second Year Fellowship

Undergraduate Institution: Peking University, Beijing, China Advisor:
Lingchong You

Research: The world-wide emergence of resistant bacteria is endangering the
efficacy of antibiotics, and is predicted to cause devastating cost on human
society. Plasmid-mediated horizontal gene transfer (HGT) is one of the major
mechanisms that bacteria acquire the resistance through. Understanding plasmid
dynamics is therefore crucial to help prevent the menace of a post-antibiotic
era. My research plan focuses on three topics: (1) building a general
mathematical framework to predict the maintenance and abundance of plasmids in
complex microbial communities, (2) establishing a high-throughput method of
measuring bacterial conjugation efficiency to screen for conjugation
inhibitors in compound libraries, (3) elucidating how HGT assists the
functional stability of microbial communities against environmental
fluctuations.

### James Long - The Stephen Smith Fellowship

Undergraduate Institution: Rice University  
Advisor: Gregg Trahey

Research: Ultrasound is a low-cost, non-ionizing diagnostic tool that is used
ubiquitously for a wide variety of applications. However, image quality is
often negatively affected by anatomical structures, such as the abdominal
wall, that distort the propagating acoustic wave necessary to form an image.
My research focuses on elucidating the underlying mechanics behind image
quality degradation and using the knowledge to adaptively select ultrasound
scanner settings in order to optimize lesion conspicuity for the purposes of
hepatocellular carcinoma screening. This implications of this work are
improved lesion detection rates in difficult-to-image patients and improved
detectability of smaller and/or multiple lesions in all patients.

### Jacob Heggestad - The Howard G. Clark III Fellowship

Undergraduate Institution: Northwesten University  
Advisor: Ashutosh Chilkoti

Research: The emergence of antibiotic resistant bacteria is a major public
health concern. My proposed research project intends to develop a point-of-
care immunodiagnostic platform to detect markers of resistance, thereby better
informing clinical decisions and promoting antibiotic stewardship. The
platform utilizes a completely self-contained sandwich immunoassay on a non-
fouling protein-brush coating, thus enabling ultrasensitive detection of
protein analytes from complex biological matrices.

### Ge Song - The John Strohbehn Fellowship

Undergraduate Institution: University of Rochester  
Advisor: Adam Wax

Research: Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is currently recognized as the
gold standard for identifying retinal structural abnormalities in
ophthalmology. However, its availability is limited to large eye centers and
research labs due to its high cost and lack of portability. I am working on a
low-cost, portable OCT system that includes a fundus camera for image
registration. It is a completely standalone system with a total cost under
$6,000. Clinical validation and non-inferiority trials will be conducted
through human retinal imaging to demonstrate the imaging capabilities of the
low-cost OCT.

### Katrina Wilson - The William M. “Monty” Reichert Fellowship

Undergraduate Institution: University of Redlands, California  
Advisor: Tatiana Segura

Research: A lot of stroke-related research focuses around delivering stem
cells, growth factors, and/or biomaterials to help regrow lost tissues and
mitigate issues of stroke, such as formation of a scar, inflammation, and a
lack of blood vessels. Both natural and synthetic polymers can be modified
with different chemical handles for adding peptides, growth factors, and
various chemicals to aid in recovery. I specifically focus on engineering
hyaluronic acid-based hydrogels for brain repair because it is a natural
polymer that comprises parts of the extracellular matrix of the brain. This
makes it highly biocompatible and low in immunogenicity. Additionally, it has
been show to contribute to cellular proliferation, migration, and
stabilization of proteins from proteolysis. My hope is to engineer a
hyaluronic-based hydrogel in a way so that it will promote vascular formation,
new neurons, and the recruitment of endogenous neural progenitor cells as a
means to regrow tissue and restore function.

### William Huffman – The Robert Plonsey Fellowship

Undergraduate Institution: University of Tennessee  
Advisor: Warren Grill

The nervous system plays an integral role in regulating immunity and fine-
tuning responses to inflammatory challenges. Immune function is modulated via
signaling in the vagus nerve, and vagal signaling is crucial to immune-
regulatory and pro-resolving effects. Vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) may be
used to treat immune dysfunction. In order to develop better therapies, we
must first better understand the effects of VNS and develop new technologies
to non-invasively modulate vagal activity. My objective is to combine pre-
clinical _in vivo_ experiments with computational modeling to advance VNS by
developing less-invasive methods of stimulation and novel approaches to
decrease side-effects.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

