

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Ten Years In, What Has CEINT Taught Us?

October 25, 2018 | Miranda Volborth

Maintaining the complexity of natural systems is crucial to environmental
research at the nanoscale. The Center for Environmental Implications of
Nanotechnology (CEINT) has led the way.

Some of the biggest advances in modern technology are owed to the tiniest of
materials—nanomaterials, a class of materials between one and 100 nanometers
in diameter, or about 1/1000 the width of a human hair. Nanocerium is added to
diesel fuel to help break down the components of harmful exhaust. Light-
absorbing nanomaterials are applied as films in photovoltaic applications,
making solar energy more accessible and affordable by replacing the rigid
crystalline panels of solar cells with thin, flexible materials. Antimicrobial
nanomaterials like silver nanoparticles are added to personal care products or
water filters to eliminate bacteria. Therapeutic nanomedicine is enabling
precision drug delivery.

Nanomaterials are virtually everywhere, but until fairly recently we could not
say with any certainty where these materials were ending up in the
environment—or what they might do once they got there.

CEINT, the Center for Environmental Implications of Nanotechnology, has
changed that. The decade-long effort has not only answered questions about the
transport and toxicity of nanoparticles, but revolutionized the way the class
of materials is studied and opened doors to designing more efficient and
effective nanomaterials along the way. And, as new potential threats—like
nanoplastics—propagate in the environment, researchers have a head start in
understanding how to track their impacts.

CEINT was launched in 2008 by Duke professor of civil and environmental
engineering and principal investigator Mark Wiesner. At the time, manufactured
nanomaterials were just beginning to flood commercial markets, added to
everything from sanitizer to sunscreen. Wiesner and his collaborators—a group
from Duke, Carnegie Mellon, Howard University, Virginia Tech, Stanford
University, the University of Kentucky and Baylor University—saw an
opportunity to explore potential safety issues posed by these materials before
large-scale problems occurred.

The group proposed creating a center to explore fundamental questions about
the fate of nanomaterials in the environmen­t, and the implications of their
presence. The center would oversee the construction and operation of an
outdoor experimental facility where water, soil, flora and fauna would
approximate a real freshwater wetland ecosystem. These “mesocosms” would give
the group a central location where they could conduct interdisciplinary and
individual research, and also learn firsthand from one another’s knowledge,
perspectives and work.

The center has been funded by $30 million in grants from the National Science
Foundation and the US Environmental Protection Agency (US EPA) over the course
of 10 years, and in that decade CEINT has published a vast body of work
explaining the environmental fate of nanomaterials, and organismal and
ecosystem responses to exposures to those materials.

In broad strokes, a few of the center’s major contributions to the field
follow.

## Understanding the limits to the notion of “nanotoxicity”

When you change the size of certain materials, you can also change their
properties. Take gold, for instance—gold in bulk is inert. Make a gold
nanoparticle, however, and it becomes a highly reactive catalyst. People were
understandably concerned that the same shifts might happen with toxicity—that
a material that is harmless at the bulk level might become toxic at the
nanoscale.

But that concern appears to be unfounded.

“We haven’t found anything uniquely ‘nano’ about toxicity,” said Wiesner.
Where researchers saw toxicity, either chronic or acute, the material being
examined met one of three criteria: 1) it was toxic in its bulk state; 2) the
doses used to reach toxic levels were far beyond what would be encountered in
the natural environment; or 3) the studies were performed with cell cultures
rather than with whole organisms.

“We have observed many cases of fate and exposure being altered at the nano-
scale, that are explained based on known principles of colloid science and
ultrafine particle exposure,” said Wiesner. These have an effect on the risk
posed by a given material, but the underlying mechanism of toxicity is not
new.

This finding is incredibly important, because it informs the decision of
whether and how to regulate nanomaterials as a class.

“It makes much more sense to talk about the toxicity of a given material—of
carbon nanotubes, or silver or copper,” said Wiesner. “We know that silver is
toxic. If you make a nanoparticle out of silver it’s going to be toxic to
someone or something, and the dose at which it becomes toxic may change. So it
makes sense to regulate silver. But we are not seeing a generalizable notion
of nanotoxicity that makes otherwise benign materials toxic when they are
fabricated as nanomaterials.”

CEINT has paid special attention to nanosilver because it is included in so
many consumer products, including disinfectant sprays and laundry detergents,
due to its antibacterial properties. Those products end up in wastewater
streams and waterways, which depend upon a healthy bacterial population for
efficient biogeochemical and nutrient cycling.

CEINT co-PI Richard Di Giulio, an environmental toxicologist and professor in
Duke’s Nicholas School of the Environment, has studied the effects of
nanosilver on ecosystems within CEINT’s mesocosms, and he has more good news.

“The water quality criteria established for silver ions adequately protects
aquatic animals from nanosilver,” said Di Giulio.

Di Giulio also investigated nanoscale titanium dioxide—used widely in
sunscreen and cosmetics—because of its photoactive properties. “We were
interested in whether there would be phototoxicity,” said Di Giulio. (There
was not.) Then he explored the material’s interactions with polycyclic
aromatic hydrocarbons, which are released from burning carbon and act as
potent carcinogens. He thought he might see synergy or interaction between the
two classes of materials. (He did not.)

Now, Di Giulio’s outlook on nanomaterials is cautiously optimistic. “Our
conclusion is that the benefits of manufactured nanomaterials outweigh the
risks,” he said.

## Embracing complexity: Bringing experiments into the real world

Arriving at this conclusion about nanomaterials and toxicity required a
willingness to experiment with wildly different approaches—but even the
center’s false starts yielded valuable insights into experimental design.

At first, Wiesner’s group deployed a high-throughput screening strategy in an
attempt to methodologically assess nanomaterials’ toxicities. With the
resulting data, they hoped to generate heat maps illustrating the risks posed
by various materials. But the researchers soon discovered that the tests in
the lab and the tests in the center’s mesocosms were yielding different sets
of data.

Wiesner said that was because the complicated pathways and interactions that
were important in the real systems were excluded from the experiments in the
lab. But, said Wiesner, “It’s pretty hard to reduce reality to a few
microliters.”

Consider silver: in its pristine nanoparticle form, it is toxic to many
aquatic organisms, largely due to silver ion release. But when the silver
nanoparticle is transformed to silver sulfide in the environment, it poses
much less risk to environmental systems.

“One of the significant outcomes of our center, is this: if you’re testing for
toxicity but you’re looking at pristine nanomaterials, that’s sort of
misguided,” explained Deputy Director and Carnegie Mellon professor of
environmental engineering Greg Lowry. “Because what ends up in the environment
is not pristine nanomaterials, but transformed ones. Those are the ones that
move around in the environment. Those are the ones an organism seizes.”

In understanding this, said Lowry, “the mesocosms were everything.”

The approaches that an environmental engineer like Lowry takes are starkly
different from the approaches that ecologists take, a difference made clear in
one of the mesocosm’s earliest nanosilver experiments. Lowry proposed dosing
the mesocosm with nanosilver at 10 parts per million—a concentration that he
knew he would comfortably be able to measure and monitor. The ecologists were
aghast—they were accustomed to working in the parts per billion range.

“Right away, we were five orders of magnitude apart from each other,” said
Lowry. “If you look at the first mesocosm study, it used 25mg per liter—a
compromise—and still it killed seemingly everything, and completely altered
the response of the system. With the most recent study, we put in 70 parts per
billion, once a week, for 9 months. So we, as a team, evolved to figure out
exactly how to run these mesocosms in a way that was really representative of
natural anthropogenic inputs.”

Translating these results to data that is relevant to policymakers adds
another necessary layer of complexity; after all, someone developing water
rules might not be interested in how silver transforms in an ecosystem. They
are looking for a response—a result that they can use to regulate effectively.

“Again, we were miles apart,” said Lowry. “But working with risk assessors
made me think about what I measured, how I measured it, and how I could get
them the information they need. It’s a way to focus the research so that it is
practical and realistic. It changed my life,” he added. “It changed the way I
do my job.”

Another way that CEINT maintained complexity in its studies was through the
development of a functional assay—a kind of “midway” measurement that can be
used in models to predict how a nanomaterial might act in a complex system.
This includes predictions about surface affinity—what makes a particle want to
stick to one kind of surface over another. The concept of functional assays
has been adopted by the US EPA, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development and the major European research groups working in this area; it is
just one example of the international impact that CEINT research has had on
the trajectory of research in this field and emerging approaches to
regulation.

By gaining a better understanding of the environmental behavior of
nanomaterials, researchers can develop better ways to apply materials for
photovoltaic uses, better strategies for applying pesticides, and better
formulations for targeted medication delivery.

They can also use this knowledge to better characterize emerging issues, like
the increasingly ubiquitous presence of plastics in the environment.

## Clearing a path for future research

“We have methods to look at a class of materials that was poorly understood
and poorly appreciated,” said Wiesner. “And now these methodologies we
developed are also being applied to microplastics and nanoplastics—they don’t
have to reinvent the wheel.”

“The thing with plastics is, when they’re put out into the environment, the
sunlight will gradually break them down, but they just get smaller and smaller
and smaller,” explained Di Giulio. “What happens when these tiny particles are
ingested, or even absorbed through the gills of animals?”

To answer the question, Di Giulio exposed zebrafish to nanopolystyrene marked
with fluorescent labels in aquaria. The fluorescent labels allowed the
determination of where in the zebrafish the nanoplastic was deposited as well
as movement through generations of zebrafish, using standard fluorescent
microscopy.

“We’re definitely seeing interesting effects,” said Di Giulio. He found
nanoplastics in the heart and brain tissue of the fish, and determined that
the plastics were being passed maternally from one generation to the next. “We
definitely see some toxic effects on heart function. We’ve seen some
behavioral effects and we don’t know if they’re secondary to the effects on
the heart, or if they’re neurological,” he said.

According to Di Giulio, cardiovascular development in zebrafish is quite
similar to development in humans; one experiment that he plans to conduct in
the near future is to put the compromised zebrafish in swim tunnels—the fish
equivalent of a treadmill—to see how far and fast they can swim, and determine
whether their aerobic capacity has been affected by their exposure to the
plastic particles.

By contrast, other CEINT researchers are pivoting from risk assessment, and
focusing their energies on developing safer agrichemicals.

“We always thought that plants got most of their metal in a dissolved form,
through the roots. Now we know that they actually take up particles,” said
Wiesner. According to Lowry, they can achieve 100 percent absorption of a
selected chemical simply by spraying the plant’s leaves with nanoparticles,
while protecting the soil and water from contact with fertilizers and
pesticides.

“We’re still trying to figure out how to get the nanoparticles to the various
places in plants—roots, chloroplasts,” mused Lowry. But at its heart, the
research problem is one of fate and transport—and every ray of light that
CEINT has shone on the applications, interactions, and implications of
nanomaterials is helping to solve it.

More Research From CEE

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

