

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Tensegrity Tower Rises Behind Hudson Hall

May 8, 2017

Engineering recreates art to offer a hands-on opportunity for learning about
engineering analysis, synergy and integrity

A tower made of tubes that don’t touch one another may not seem like it should
be able stand…but it can. The principles that make such a structure possible
involve certain geometries and pre-tensioned cords connecting the tubes. Last
Friday, April 28, a group of Duke Engineering freshmen and sophomores
demonstrated this principle to be true.

As the apex of a new first-year design course in Civil Engineering, EGR190:
Engineering the Planet, students created a Tensegrity Tower. Discovered by the
artist Kenneth Snelson in 1948, tensegrities are defined by islands of
compression (the tubes) within a sea of tension (the cords). By balancing the
push and pull of these elemental components, the system achieves a stable form
in which integrity is derived from internal tension. The system relies on
every component and is more efficient than any system made of tubes alone or
cords alone.

Emboldened from studying tensegrity in small scale models in the classroom,
students gathered on the lawn between the Hudson Annex and the Levine Science
Research Center to attempt a replica of Kenneth Snelson’s sculpture _Needle
Tower_. The class persevered through setbacks that only hardened their
resolve, and triumphed in creating a 30 foot tower that was allowed to stand
through the evening. The experience provided an first-hand experience in
resilience engineering—the adaptability of systems to respond to extreme and
unforeseen circumstances.

The project was hatched by Henri Gavin, professor of civil and environmental
engineering, in collaboration with the class’s instructor David Schaad,
professor of the practice of civil and environmental engineering.

Professor Gavin provided many insights into his choice of a final project:

_“There is a lot to learn from building replicas of Kenneth Snelson's
sculptures. They were discovered through art, not as a result of mathematical
analysis. But they do offer interesting and hands-on opportunities to study
math. Tensegrity concepts have been used to explain muscular-skeletal systems
and the molecular dynamics of DNA and cell membranes._

_Tensegrity requires 3D thinking. It does not exist in 2D (on flat pieces of
paper) and even 3D computer graphics are not a substitute for building and
holding these systems. The simple existence of the unique stable geometry that
we see here today contradicts some concepts of system equilibrium as they are
commonly taught in undergraduate engineering curricula._

_As in many design enterprises, the difference between success and failure
comes down to the details. In the case of tensegrity systems, experiencing how
they are built by securing cables and tensioning cords by hand, every student
truly feels how the system finds its equilibrium. The details of how it is
assembled reveals the mechanics of how it works._

_This project provides opportunities for learning about art history, the
ethics of attribution, synergetics, assertiveness, teamwork, 3D thinking,
mathematics, engineering analysis, and the simple pleasure of using tools to
create something aesthetic with your own hands and sharing it with others. In
the spirit of full disclosure, since we had never done this before, we didn't
want to over-reach. This year our tensegrity is only 30 feet tall. We are
thrilled that it worked, we all learned a lot, and we are confident we can
beat this height next year!”_

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

