

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Three Duke Engineers Elected to National Academy of Inventors

December 12, 2022 | Michaela Kane

With the elections of Grill, Gersbach and Becker, Duke Engineering is home to
13 NAI Fellows

The National Academy of Inventors (NAI) announced today that three faculty
from Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering were elected to its 2022
class of Fellows: Matthew Becker, the Hugo L. Blomquist Distinguished
Professor of Chemistry and Professor of Mechanical Engineering & Materials
Science; Charles Gersbach, the John W. Strohbehn Distinguished Professor of
Biomedical Engineering; and Warren Grill, the Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School
Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering.

Founded in 2010, the NAI recognizes academic inventors for their prolific
spirit of innovation in creating or facilitating outstanding inventions that
have made a tangible impact on the quality of life, economic development and
the welfare of society. Today’s announcement brings the number of NAI Fellows
in the Pratt School of Engineering to 13. Professor Tony Jun Huang was elected
in 2020; Kathryn Nightingale and Blake Wilson were elected in 2019; Nimmi
Ramanujam, Joseph Izatt and Tuan Vo-Dinh were elected in 2017; David Smith and
Jennifer West were elected in 2016; and Robert Calderbank and Ashutosh
Chilkoti were elected in 2014.

Becker is an expert in organic polymer chemistry whose multidisciplinary
research team works at the interface of chemistry, materials and medicine to
develop bioactive polymers to improve human health. A professor with joint
primary appointments in the Departments of Chemistry and Mechanical
Engineering & Materials Science with collaborators in the Departments of
Biomedical Engineering and Orthopaedic Surgery, he both conducts basic science
research and develops functional biomaterials for translation into clinical
applications.

One of his many projects includes a biocompatible implantable polymer surgical
patch that releases a controlled dose of non-opioid painkillers directly to
the site of a surgical wound and then dissolves slowly. The goal is to provide
localized pain control in the days immediately following surgery, such as for
a hernia or cesarean birth, effective enough to eliminate the need for opioid
pain relievers and their associated systemic side effects or risk of
addiction. Becker also is developing 3D-printable polymers for clinical
applications, such as implantable mesh used in hernia surgeries.

Gersbach’s research centers on gene therapy, genomics, and biomolecular and
cellular engineering. A widely recognized expert in genome engineering,
Gersbach has appeared on Clarivate’s “Highly Cited Researchers” list since
2021, and Nobel Prize winner Jennifer Doudna noted his work in an interview
about exciting research in the field.

As the director of Duke’s Center for Advanced Genomic Technologies, Gersbach
and his team received an $8 million NIH grant to explore what genes increase
the risk of developing schizophrenia. In 2016, Gersbach published one of the
first successful uses of CRISPR to treat an animal model of genetic disease.
He advanced this work in 2019, where he showed that genetic edits and protein
restoration in mouse models of Duchenne muscular dystrophy remain viable one
year after a single CRISPR treatment.

Grill uses engineering approaches to understand and control neural function.
Specifically, his team explores how various types of electrical stimulation
can restore function, treat movement disorders and relieve pain. Projects from
his lab range from using deep brain stimulation to treat motor symptoms from
Parkinson’s Disease to designing novel electrodes and waveforms to selectively
stimulate the nervous system.

Recently, Grill developed a method for using light-based deep brain
stimulation to better understand exactly how the therapy works, and he showed
that stimulating the vagus nerve can reduce inflammation and restore cognitive
function after injury or surgery in older adults. His team has also
investigated how certain types of nerve stimulation can restore bladder
function. This research was nationally recognized via the NIH SPARC program,
which awarded Grill and his team with the highly competitive Neuromod Prize.

The new Fellows will be inducted on June 27, 2023, during the NAI 12th Annual
Meeting in Washington, D.C.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

