

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Adrian Bejan: Time and Beauty Reveal the Physics of Human Perceptions

February 17, 2022

The Duke MEM professor's fourth book for a general audience, “Time and
Beauty,” was published by World Scientific

Adrian Bejan, the J.A. Jones Distinguished Professor of Mechanical Engineering
at Duke University, has published a new book titled “Time and Beauty: Why Time
Flies and Beauty Never Dies.” This is Bejan’s fourth book written for a
general audience that uses his concept of constructal law — the tendency of
all systems to evolve towards easier access to flow — to explain everyday
phenomena that aren’t traditionally tied to physics. The book was published in
early February 2022 by World Scientific.

Two of Bejan’s insights that have sparked the imagination of the public
involve beauty and time. In 2010, he posited that the golden ratio, leveraged
in works ranging from the Parthenon in Athens to the Mona Lisa, is so pleasing
to people because it allows for the most efficient scan of a composition by
the human eye. More recently in 2019, Bejan suggested a physical reason for
why time seems to speed up as humans age — a slowdown in the rate at which
eyes can obtain information and neural systems can process them.

“Lying in bed in the middle of the night not long ago, it occurred to me that
these two ideas are actually one and the same,” Bejan said. “The ideas of
beauty and time are usually thought of as abstract ideas that can’t be
explained. But they both arise from the mechanics of how our eyes move. In
other words, the way in which we perceive both time and beauty arises out of
physics.”

In the new book, Bejan explores these two concepts in more detail, providing
many visual examples to help the reader understand his explanations. Vision
and cognition evolved together and are one and the same design, Bejan says.
The increased efficiency of information flowing from the world through the
eyes to the brain corresponds with the transmission of this information
through the branching architecture of nerves and the brain. He then delves
into his thoughts as to how this basic physical infrastructure influences the
way humans see the world.

In the realm of beauty, Bejan argues that the world — whether it is a human
looking at a painting or a gazelle on the open plain scanning the horizon — is
basically oriented on the horizontal. For the gazelle, danger primarily comes
from the sides or from behind, not from above or below, so their scope of
vision evolved to go side-to-side. As vision developed, animals got “smarter”
by seeing better, and he argues that the golden ratio is the peak of this
evolutionary process.

When it comes to time, Bejan once again references the flow of information
from the eyes through the branching pathways of our brains. As these tangled
webs of nerves and neurons mature, they grow in size and complexity, and then
begin to age and degrade. Combined with a slowing of our visual systems’
abilities to quickly scan the world, these phenomena cause the rate at which
new mental images are acquired and processed to decrease with age.

This is evidenced by how often the eyes of infants move compared to adults,
noted Bejan — because infants process images faster than adults, their eyes
move more often, acquiring and integrating more information while awake. The
result is that, because older people are viewing fewer new images in the same
amount of actual time, it seems to them as though bedtime arrived too soon.

“This book highlights the extension of science over a domain that was
previously relegated to the unknown or were subjects that were 100%
descriptive,” Bejan says. “But with a new understanding of the underlying
physics, we are now armed with the power to predict these aspects of the
world.”

Speaking to the power of prediction, Bejan says he intends to use his new book
in his classroom teachings at Duke. Anything that can help professionals
predict better designs, he argues, is an important piece of education.

“I teach the science of design, and design that is not done by the seat of
your pants,” Bejan said. “Design is a science with rules and discipline. We
don’t want our students wandering in the dark, tinkering with their designs.
We want them to graduate with the gift of how to predict the best designs,
which will fast-forward their own thinking.”

## Related News

February 25, 2020

### Ambassador Inducts Bejan as Knight of the French Order of Academic Palms

November 07, 2017

### Bejan Named 2018 Franklin Institute Award Laureate

February 23, 2015

### Adrian Bejan Talks Constructal Law

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

