

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Time Cues Help Keep Humans Looking Human

April 22, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

Simple genetic circuit controls pattern formation and scale in bacterial
colonies

Researchers believe that genetically modified bacteria can help explain how a
developing animal keeps all of its parts and organs in the same general
proportions as every other member of its species.

In 1952, Alan Turing mathematically demonstrated how the nearly endless
variety of patterns seen in nature -- spots on cheetahs or the distinctive
coats of leopards, for example -- could be explained by chemicals spreading
and interacting by simple rules. Many scientists, however, remained
unconvinced, and believed there must be more to the story.

Now, Duke University researchers have discovered another way that patterns can
form -- through the use of a ticking clock. By combining two chemical signals
with a few variables, timing cues emerge. And these timing cues can not only
create patterns -- they can also make sure these patterns have roughly the
same proportions from one colony to the next.

In a study published on April 21 in the journal Cell, Lingchong You, the Paul
Ruffin Scarborough Associate Professor of Engineering at Duke University,
introduced a new genetic circuit into a population of bacteria. You programmed
bacteria to produce a protein called T7RNAP (tagged fluorescent blue), which
activates its own expression in a positive feedback loop.

As the bacterial colony grows and produces more T7RNAP, it also produces a
chemical that triggers the production of a protein called T7 lysozyme (tagged
fluorescent red), which inhibits the production of T7RNAP. Wherever the two
molecules interact, purple patterns appear in the colony.

Because bacteria toward the outer edge of the colony are more active than
those in the interior, this system causes a purple ring to appear like a
bullseye. You and his colleagues discovered that they could control its
thickness and how long it took for the bullseye to appear by varying the size
of the growing environment and amount of nutrients provided.

These variables act as a time cue for the pattern’s development. A bigger
growth environment or more nutrients causes a delay in the formation of the
ring. You speculates that similar timing circuits can operate in other
organisms, including animals.

“In our experiment, we get a spatial cue from an unsuspected source. We sort
of get it for free from the timing of the genetic circuit,” said You. “These
two diffusible molecules aren’t dictating at what positions cells are going to
stop or start producing proteins. Instead, they’re telling the cells when to
start or stop producing proteins. That’s enough to both produce a pattern and
to control its scaling, and it’s a fundamentally new mechanism.”

This work was supported by the Office of Naval Research (N00014-12-1-0631),
the National Science Foundation, the Army Research Office (W911NF-14-1-0490),
the National Institutes of Health (1R01-GM098642, R01-GM096190), the Swiss
National Science Foundation (P300P2_154583), the David and Lucile Packard
Foundation and the Department of Homeland Security.

###

“Collective Space-Sensing Coordinates: Pattern Scaling in Engineered
Bacteria.” Yangxiaolu Cao, Marc D. Ryser, Stephen Payne, Bochong Li,
Christopher V. Rao, and Lingchong You. Cell, 2016. DOI:
10.1016/j.cell.2016.03.006

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

