

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Timothy Dunn: Tracking Movement to Decipher Brain Activity

June 22, 2021 | Michaela Kane

New faculty member Timothy Dunn uses novel 3D behavior-tracking technologies
to better understand how the brain works

Timothy Dunn will join Duke University’s Department of Biomedical Engineering
as a new assistant professor beginning July 1, 2021. With research centered on
developing technologies to precisely track and model animal movement, Dunn
aims to expand the ways researchers can probe the brain.

When it comes to piecing together the inner workings of the brain,
neuroscientists have an arsenal of tools at their disposal. Imaging modalities
like calcium imaging enable researchers to precisely track when and where
individual neurons are activated, and the new technologies like optogenetics
have allowed scientists to activate and control key neurons in animal models.
In the last decade, researchers have even developed tools to map the
connections among neurons in the brain, giving them a clearer picture of the
organ’s complex circuitry.

These advancements have allowed researchers to better decipher neuronal
activity within the brain, but just how that translates into functional output
in terms of actions at the level of the entire body is less clear.

Dunn and his lab aim to change this.

“The principal output of the brain is movement and behavior, but we previously
haven’t had any tools to precisely track that output in freely moving animals
and relate it to underlying neuronal activity,” says Dunn, who joins Duke BME
from Duke’s Department of Neurosurgery and Duke AI Health. “This has been a
major hurdle for understanding at a basic neurological level what neural
circuits are doing, and it’s made it very difficult to crack the mystery of
devastating motor disorders like Parkinson’s disease.”

To address this longstanding issue, Dunn and his team developed DANNCE, or
3-Dimensional Aligned Neural Network for Computational Ethology. The team
gathered videos of animals moving naturally in the lab and trained a machine-
learning algorithm known as a convolutional neural network to identify and map
the precise locations of different body parts as the animal moved. Because it
was drawing information from multiple cameras, the system learned how to
predict precisely where an animal’s limbs would be in a given 3-dimensional
space.

“This tool gives us quantitative measurements of natural behavior, which
didn’t exist before,” says Dunn. “DANNCE was trained on rats, but the
technique is able to work accurately on other types of animals as well, and it
doesn’t require the animal to wear anything that might hinder its natural
movement. We can then relate these precise movement measurements to data
collected from brain recording technologies, like calcium imaging.”

Already, this approach has given researchers a new way to precisely study
movement disorders seen in conditions like Parkinson’s disease, Fragile X
Syndrome and Autism Spectrum Disorder. Now, in his new role in Duke BME, Dunn
says one of the main goals of his lab will be to use DANNCE to explore
hereditary movement disorders, like some forms of dystonia.

“Dystonia is very difficult to study because there is a lot of variation in
how the disease is expressed, and animal models are often asymptomatic,” says
Dunn. “We hypothesize that researchers have been unable to find symptoms in a
majority of these animals because they don’t have sensitive tools to measure
their movement profiles comprehensively. With our technology we can measure
the positions and velocities of every controllable body part on the animal
over long periods of time. Using this new granularity, we now may be able to
find more subtle effects at various temporal and spatial scales that have been
inaccessible to researchers in the past.”

In addition to this work, Dunn and his team will also explore how artificial
neural networks can learn to precisely mimic the movement information
collected with DANNCE.

“We want to train a neural network to achieve the same goal or perform the
same task as the animal,” says Dunn. “For example, if you’re trying to study
the visual system you can build a deep neural network that can recognize
objects, which is something that our visual system is obviously capable of and
use this neural network as a realistic model for visual processing. But
researchers haven’t yet been able to build such realistic neural network
models for how an artificial body moves and navigates through an artificial
environment.”

As he prepares to join Duke BME, Dunn is excited to begin collaborating with
researchers throughout the department. In addition to working closely with
Michael Tadross on a grant to use their respective tools to study Parkinson’s
disease, he is collaborating with Tatiana Segura to better explore and
quantify behavioral and movement effects after a stroke. On the technical
side, Dunn is also aiming to partner with Roarke Horstmeyer to improve
DANNCE’s image processing capabilities.

Beyond working with faculty, Dunn will use his expertise to help develop a
biomedical data science certificate for master’s students. According to Dunn,
this will involve developing new courses and creating a full and engaging
curriculum with other data science researchers across the department.

“Joining Duke BME is an exceptional opportunity for me. The department
provides an environment in which I can develop advanced machine learning tools
and then apply them to real biological problems, so it’s really an ideal mix
of disciplines,” says Dunn. “I’ve already established productive
collaborations, and I’m eager to build on these partnerships as a new member
of the department. I’m also looking forward to mentoring bright and passionate
BME students who share my excitement for machine learning as a catalyst of
neurobiological discovery.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

