

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# ‘Floppy’ Atomic Dynamics Help Turn Heat into Electricity

September 4, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

‘Cold neutrons’ uncover atomic dynamics that give thermoelectric materials
low-heat conductivity

Materials scientists at Duke University have uncovered an atomic mechanism
that makes certain thermoelectric materials incredibly efficient near high-
temperature phase transitions. The information will help fill critical
knowledge gaps in the computational modeling of such materials, potentially
allowing researchers to discover new and better options for technologies that
rely on transforming heat into electricity.

The results appear online on September 4 in the journal Nature Communications.

Thermoelectric materials convert heat into electricity when electrons migrate
from the hot side of the material to the cold side. Because providing a
temperature difference between its two sides is required, researchers are
interested in trying to use these materials to generate electricity from the
heat of a car’s tailpipe or recovering energy lost as heat in power plants.

Over the past couple of years, new records were set for thermoelectric
efficiency with an emerging material called tin selenide and its sister
compound, tin sulfide. The sulfide version is not quite as good a
thermoelectric yet, but it is being optimized further because it is cheaper to
produce and more environmentally friendly.

While scientists know that both of these compounds are excellent
thermoelectric materials, they don’t exactly know why. In the new study,
Olivier Delaire, associate professor of mechanical engineering and materials
science at Duke, and two of his graduate students, Tyson Lanigan-Atkins and
Shan Yang, tried to fill in a bit of that knowledge gap.

“We wanted to try to understand why these materials have such low thermal
conductivity, which helps enable the strong thermoelectric properties they’re
known for,” said Delaire. “Using a powerful combination of neutron scattering
measurements and computer simulations, we discovered that it’s related to the
material’s atomic vibrations at high temperature, which nobody had seen
before.”

Low thermal conductivity is a necessary ingredient of any good thermoelectric
material. Because electricity generation requires a heat differential between
its two sides, it makes sense that materials that stop heat from spreading
across them would perform well.

To get a view of tin sulfide’s atomic vibrations in action, Delaire and
Lanigan-Atkins took samples to the High Flux Isotope Reactor at Oak Ridge
National Laboratory. By ricocheting neutrons off of the tin sulfide’s atoms
and detecting where they end up after, the researchers could determine where
the atoms were and how they were collectively vibrating in the crystal’s
lattice.

The facilities at ORNL were particularly well-suited for the task. Because the
atomic vibrations of tin sulfide are relatively slow, the researchers need
low-energy “cold” neutrons that are delicate enough to see them. And ORNL has
some of the best cold-neutron instruments in the world.

“We found that the tin sulfide effectively has certain modes of vibration that
are very ‘floppy,’” said Delaire. “And that its properties are connected with
inherent instability in its crystal lattice.”

At lower temperatures, tin sulfide is a layered material with distorted grids
of tin and sulfide lying on top of another, corrugated like an accordion. But
at temperatures near its phase transition point of 980 degrees
Fahrenheit—which is where thermoelectric generators often operate—that
distorted environment begins to breaks down. The two layers, as if by magic,
become undistorted again and more symmetric, which is where the “floppiness”
comes into play.

Because the material is sloshing between the two structural arrangements at
high temperature, its atoms no longer vibrate together like a well-tuned
guitar string and instead become anharmonically damped. To understand this
better, think of a car with terrible shocks as having a harmonic vibration —
it will keep bouncing long after going over the slightest bump. But proper
shocks will dampen that vibration, making it anharmonic and stopping it from
oscillating for a long time.

“Heat waves travel through atomic vibrations in a material,” said Delaire. “So
when the atomic vibrations in tin sulfide become floppy, they don’t transmit
vibrations very quickly and they also don’t vibrate for very long. That’s the
root cause of its ability to stop heat from traveling within it.”

With these results in hand, Delaire and Yang then sought to confirm and
understand them computationally. Using supercomputers at Lawrence Berkeley
National Laboratory, Yang was able to reproduce the same anharmonic effects at
high temperatures. Besides confirming what they saw in the experiments,
Delaire says these updated models will allow researchers to better search for
new thermoelectric materials to use in tomorrow’s technologies.

“Researchers in the field have not been accounting for strong temperature
dependences on heat propagation velocities, and this modeling shows just how
important that variable can be,” said Delaire. “Adopting these results and
other theoretical advances will make it easier for materials scientists to
predict other good thermoelectric materials.”

This research was supported by the Department of Energy (DE-SC0019299, DE-
SC0016166).

CITATION: “Extended anharmonic collapse of phonon dispersions in SnS and
SnSe,” T. Lanigan-Atkins, S. Yang, J. L. Niedziela, D. Bansal, A. F. May, A.
A. Puretzky, J. Y. Y. Lin, D. M. Pajerowski, T. Hong, S. Chi, G. Ehlers, and
O. Delaire. Nature Communications, 2020. DOI: 10.1038/s41467-020-18121-4

## Related News

April 13, 2020

### New Handle for Controlling Electromagnetic Properties Could Enable
Spintronic Computing

November 01, 2018

### Atomic Path from Insulator to Metal Messier than Thought

October 08, 2018

### Copper Ions Flow Like Liquid through the Frozen Atomic Network of a
Crystal

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

