

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Tissue Chips Take Aim at Atherosclerosis and Rheumatoid Arthritis

September 13, 2017

New $2 million grant builds on five years of 3-D human muscle and vasculature
model development

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have received more than $2 million to
develop “tissue chips” that model atherosclerosis and muscle dysfunction in
rheumatoid arthritis. They then plan to link the various models together and
examine how simulated exercise can reduce the impact of inflammation.

“People with rheumatoid arthritis and other autoimmune diseases are at higher
risk of cardiovascular disease, likely a result of systemic inflammation,”
said George Truskey, senior associate dean of Duke’s Pratt School of
Engineering and lead investigator of the new grant. “We want to develop
disease models for atherosclerosis and rheumatoid arthritis to find out how
systemic inflammation affects the extent of disease.”

The two-year grant—which can be extended up to five years total—is part of a
larger 13-award, $30 million project announced by the National Institutes of
Health to develop 3-D microphysiological system platforms that model human
disease. These platforms, called “tissue chips,” support living cells and
human tissues to mimic the complex biological functions of human organs and
systems and provide a new way to test potential drug efficacy.

These “Tissue Chip for Disease Modeling and Efficacy Testing” awards may
enable scientists to better understand disease mechanisms and predict more
accurately how patients will respond to specific drugs. The support is made
possible through NIH’s National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences'
(NCATS) Tissue Chip for Drug Screening program, which leads this effort in
collaboration with other NIH Institutes and Centers.

“The goal is for these tissue chips to provide more accurate platforms to
understand diseases, and to be more predictive of the human response to drugs
than current research models, thereby improving the success rate of candidate
drugs in human clinical trials,” said NCATS Director Christopher P. Austin,
M.D.

NCATS launched its Tissue Chip program in 2012 to lead the development of
highly innovative microphysiological systems to study drug safety and toxicity
in a faster, more effective way than current methods. The tissue chips can be
integrated to form a human body-on-a-chip, enabling researchers to study
investigational drugs and therapeutic agents across the entire body prior to
human clinical trials.

Truskey and his colleagues have been a part of the project since the inception
of the NCATS Tissue Chip program. Over the past five years, the
interdisciplinary team has succeeded in developing tissue-on-a-chip
technologies for healthy human skeletal muscle and blood vessels using primary
and induced pluripotent stem cells. They’ve shown their platform can assess
the response to drugs and pro-inflammatory biological signals, and developed a
vascular disease model of the extremely rare disease progeria.

With the new awards, the NIH sought to fund projects that promised to model
two or more diseases. The team’s new goal is to develop clinically relevant
disease models to examine atherosclerosis and rheumatoid arthritis risk for
muscle dysfunction and the role of exercise in attenuating disease-associated
muscle inflammation. In the second phase of the awards, researchers will
partner with pharmaceutical companies to further evaluate the usefulness of
validated disease models—those that accurately mimic disease biology—in
assessing the effectiveness of candidate drugs. The Duke group will examine
drugs that reduce inflammation and potentially address gene variants that
promote atherosclerosis and muscle inflammation.

Joining Truskey in the endeavor are Duke colleagues Nenad Bursac, professor of
biomedical engineering; Charles Gersbach, the Rooney Family Associate
Professor of Biomedical Engineering; William Kraus, professor of medicine and
biomedical engineering; Timothy Koves, assistant professor of medicine;
Michael Gunn, professor of medicine and immunology; Kim Huffman, associate
professor of medicine. Also joining the group is Kam Leong, professor of
biomedical engineering at Columbia University.

In addition to NCATS, the new award is supported by the National Institute of
Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

