

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Tissue-Patching a Broken Heart

October 6, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

Multi-university consortium nabs $8.6 million to build the world’s first
three-dimensional, fully functional heart patch

A multi-university team of researchers has been tasked with creating and
testing a three-dimensional “heart patch” that can literally mend a broken
heart.

Unlike many human tissues, the heart cannot regenerate functional muscle
tissue after a heart attack or disease has killed part of the muscle wall. The
dead tissue can no longer transmit electrical signals necessary for smooth
heartbeats and can strain the surrounding muscle, leading to lethal
complications.

Current clinical trials are testing the tactic of injecting stem cells derived
from bone marrow, blood or the heart itself directly into the heart in an
attempt to replenish some of the damaged tissue. While there does seem to be
some positive effects from this treatment, their origins are unknown as these
stem cells do not survive for long and cannot become functional cardiac muscle
cells.

Tissue engineers believe there is a better way. By strategically placing
pluripotent stem cells that can be grown into any cell type into engineered
scaffolding, a three-dimensional “heart patch” can be grown that features
complex tissue closely resembling native heart muscle.

These patches could then be implanted and theoretically perform all of the
functions of a healthy, beating heart muscle. The approach is expected to
improve cell survival upon implantation, retain more of the cells at the
damaged site and release molecules that can help the heart repair more
efficiently than current clinical trials that simply inject free stem cells.

But there are many obstacles standing between current research and successful
implementation.

The National Institutes of Health has turned to Duke University, the
University of Alabama at Birmingham and the University of Wisconsin—Madison to
overcome these hurdles. The consortium was recently awarded a seven-year, $8.6
million grant to develop and test such heart patches in live animals.

“We are very excited about this opportunity to move our longstanding research
in cardiac tissue engineering toward clinical practice to help patients,” said
Nenad Bursac, professor of biomedical engineering at Duke. “Translating this
approach to clinics will require overcoming several important challenges, and
will demand every bit of combined expertise that Duke, UAB and UW-Madison have
to offer.”

The difference between previous attempts to heal human heart tissue and the
new project is the advent of embryonic and induced pluripotent stem cells.
These technologies provide the ability to engineer all of the specific cell
types that make up heart muscle: cardiomyocytes, the cells responsible for
muscle contraction; fibroblasts, the cells that provide structural framework
to tissue; and endothelial and smooth muscle cells, the cells that form blood
vessels.

Bursac and colleagues at Duke will lead the effort to take these human cells
and embed them into patches large enough to help real-life patients. This will
require making sure the different cell types are present in the correct ratios
and that the patch is able to quickly assemble, become functional and fully
integrate with the existing tissue’s blood supply and electrical signals.

Besides forming functional muscle akin to natural heart tissue, this approach
will allow researchers to personally tailor the therapy to individual
patients.

Joining Bursac in his efforts from the Duke University School of Medicine are
Howard Rockman, the Edward S. Orgain Professor of Cardiology, and Victor Dzau,
the James B. Duke Professor of Medicine.

“The ability to make functional heart muscle tissue from pluripotent stem
cells is crucial to directly helping a diseased heart’s functionality,” said
Bursac. “This is a feat that cannot be achieved using current cell sources in
clinical trials because they cannot become functional cardiac muscle cells.
The field is expected to benefit from use of engineered heart tissues, which
is where Duke and our lab come in as leaders in the field.”

Directing the consortium is Jianyi “Jay” Zhang, chair of the UAB Biomedical
Engineering Department, who will also lead a team to test the heart patches in
a pig model of cardiovascular disease, a close approximation in an animal to
the human heart.

UW-Madison’s effort is led by Timothy J. Kamp, a UW-Madison cardiologist and
co-director of the UW–Madison Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine Center.
Their role in this endeavor is to use stem cells to create the main cell types
that compose heart tissue while ensuring these cells do not prompt an immune
response.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

