

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Off-Grid Sanitation Systems Show Promise in Global Testing, Despite Toilet
Paper Sabotage

February 17, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

Systems approaching viability in field tests of Duke-led Gates Foundation
“Reinvent the Toilet” project

As legend has it, when French workers felt their livelihoods threatened by
automation in the early 1900s, they flung their wooden shoes called sabots
into the machines to stop them. Hence the word sabotage.

Instead of wasting good footwear, perhaps they should’ve tried wet toilet
paper.

In two new papers published in the journal _Science of the Total Environment_
, engineers from Duke University report on results from the first large-scale,
real-world field trials of critical components of their off-grid sanitation
system. Since 2011, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation’s “Reinvent the
Toilet” initiative has invested more than $200 million to fund these and other
efforts to create small-scale sanitation systems to serve the needs of the 4.2
billion people who lack safely managed sanitation worldwide.

While their nutrient removal processes need improvement, the researchers say
they were pleasantly surprised at how long the system’s components lasted.
They were also reminded of just how important cultural practices can be to the
success of a global engineering challenge.

“The first step in our reinvented toilet system separated the solid and liquid
waste through a conveyer belt made of rubber bands,” said Brian Hawkins,
research scientist in the Duke Center for Water, Sanitation, Hygiene and
Infectious Disease (WaSH-AID). “It works great in India where they have a
washing culture, but in South Africa, where they have a wiping culture, the
toilet paper got into the mix and gummed up all of the gears. That resulted in
the system needing cleaning every couple of days, which is not sustainable.”

For the Gates-funded sanitation systems to be considered successful, they must
not only remove pathogens from human waste and recover resources such as
energy, clean water and nutrients, they have to do this “off the grid,”
without access to external electricity or water sources. To top it all off,
the systems must cost less than five cents per user, per day—that’s 200 users
for $10.

Along with Jeffrey Glass and Brian Stoner, both faculty members in Duke’s
Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering, Hawkins has worked on his
system at RTI International and Duke Engineering for almost a decade. After
testing the liquid treatment system at large scales in real-life settings, it
appears that the team’s dedication is beginning to pay off.

“The big thing we were trying to find out is how long we can run this system
before it needs critical maintenance,” said Hawkins. “And you want to do that
in as close to real-life situations as possible.”

Throughout much of 2018, the Duke researchers installed a prototype waste
treatment system at two locations—a women’s dormitory at a textile mill in
Coimbatore, India and a communal ablution block at the edge of Durban, South
Africa. Over the course of eight months, both systems served up to 50
potential users at any given time, processing more than 11,000 liters of waste
throughout the field trials.

While the problem of toilet paper was an important discovery, the primary
purpose of the trials was to test the longevity of the critical components of
the liquid treatment process. After solids are separated from the liquids,
they are pushed through a large activated carbon filter.

While this removes almost all of the biosolids, it does not disinfect the
water or remove any dissolved salts. But that’s okay, because the researchers
can make use of one problem to solve the other. Electricity is run through the
water to break down the molecular bonds within the remaining salts to produce
chlorine-containing oxidants, a powerful disinfectant.

“Electrochemically treating hazardous waste has a lot of benefits,” said
Glass. “You don’t have to ship or handle any chemicals for the disinfection,
and the process can be very efficient.”

Depending on the specific chemistry of the water, however, the electrical
leads needed for this process can corrode quickly. The researchers also
weren’t sure how much use the activated carbon filters could handle before
needing to be replaced. But the field trials helped alleviate those fears.

“Both trials went for eight months and the filters never failed. I had it in
my head that it’d be great if they could last a year, and so far it looks like
they might be able to,” said Hawkins. “So long as we cleaned the electrical
system periodically, it lasted for hundreds of hours of service. That’s a
component that, if you had to replace it every six months, it’s not going to
work out. But if you can make it last three or four years, that’s okay.”

In general, the field trial results were promising in regard to the system’s
potential maintenance needs and performance. Duke’s prototype systems met all
of the biological parameters and three out of the five chemical standards for
liquid effluent according to recently released stand-alone sewage treatment
requirements from the International Organization for Standardization (ISO).
However they fell short of the standards for remaining amounts of phosphorus
and nitrogen.

“These two chemicals are of particular concern when you’re discharging water
into lakes and streams because too much of either can cause algal blooms,”
said Hawkins. “There are efficient ways of removing phosphorus and nitrogen at
low costs for large volumes, or for small volumes at high costs, but not for
low volumes at low cost. That’s an ongoing topic of R&D for us.”

Duke engineers are now testing solutions to such problems in their next
iteration of systems in India. The new systems are more compact and efficient
— and just a little bit closer to being employed as full-scale working
solutions.

“If you look at the flow diagram of our original system and what we’re testing
now, the components are all the same, but the newest prototypes are a lot more
lean and mean,” Hawkins said. “At this point we’re mostly iterating on the
same technologies, but not really making big changes.”

This research was supported by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. Local
partners in India included: RTI India and PSG Institute of Medical Science and
Research. In South Africa, partners included: The Pollution Research Group
(PRG) and School of the Built Environment and Development Studies (SoBEDs) at
the University of KwaZulu-Natal, Khanyisa Projects, and eThekwini Water and
Sanitation.

CITATIONS: “Field Testing of a Household-Scale Onsite Blackwater Treatment
System in Coimbatore, India,” Claire M.Welling, Sarani Sasidaran, Prateek
Kachoria, Sarah Hennessy, Brendon J. Lynch, Stephanie Teleski, Hitendra
Chaudhari, Katelyn L. Sellgren, Brian R. Stoner, Sonia Grego, Brian T.
Hawkins. Science of the Total Environment, 2020. DOI:
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.136706

“Field Testing of a Household-Scale Onsite Blackwater Treatment System in
South Africa,” Tapuwa Sahondo, Sarah Hennessy, Rebecca C. Sindall, Hitendra
Chaudhari, Stephanie Teleski, Brendon J. Lynch, Katelyn L. Sellgren, Brian R.
Stoner, Sonia Grego, Brian T. Hawkins. Science of the Total Environment, 2020.
DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2019.135469

# # #

## Related News

November 19, 2018

### Reinvented Toilets to Debut In Two Indian Cities

November 05, 2018

### Reinventing the Toilet: Seeking a ‘Safe and Dignified Solution’ to the
Sanitation Crisis

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

