

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# In the Race of Life, the Tortoise Beats the Hare Every Time

August 27, 2018

Research shows that, when speed is averaged throughout a lifetime, the fastest
animals and machines are actually the slowest

Over the long-run, the race will indeed go to the slower, steadier animal.

“The fable of ’The Tortoise and the Hare’ is a metaphor about life, not a
story about a race,” said Adrian Bejan, the J.A. Jones Professor of Mechanical
Engineering at Duke University. “We see in animal life two starkly different
lifestyles—one with nearly steady feeding and daily sleep and another with
short bursts of intermittent feeding interspersed with day-long siestas. Both
of these patterns are the rhythms of living that Aesop taught.”

In the iconic parable, Aesop tells of a race between a fast but often-
distracted hare and a slow but relentless tortoise. Readers are supposed to be
surprised when the tortoise manages to defeat the hare, coining the phrase
“slow and steady wins the race.” But according to Bejan’s new analysis, they
shouldn’t be.

Published on August 27 in the journal Scientific Reports, Bejan analyzes the
reported speeds of animals based on land, air and water. The results show that
some of the world’s fastest animals are actually some of the slowest when
their movements are averaged throughout their lifetimes.

Bejan then goes on to demonstrate that this counterintuitive result is also
true of the modern aviation industry. With data from hundreds of historical
airplane models in hand, Bejan shows that the general trend in their design is
for size and speed to increase hand-in-hand.

> “We see in animal life two starkly different lifestyles—one with nearly
> steady feeding and daily sleep and another with short bursts of intermittent
> feeding interspersed with day-long siestas. Both of these patterns are the
> rhythms of living that Aesop taught.”

Except, that is, for the modern jet fighter.

Just like in the animal world, the jet fighter may be faster than other
airplanes in short bursts, but it spends much of its time grounded. When
averaged over its service lifetime, jet fighters are surprisingly slow when
compared to models designed for transport or reconnaissance.

The study emerged as a consequence of a previous paper that used Bejan’s
constructal theory to show that all animals’ speeds tend to rise along with
their body mass and adhere to a similar ratio. For example, the stride
frequency of running vertebrates bears the same relationship to the animals'
mass as does the rate at which fish swim. Similarly, the velocity of runners
conforms to the same principles as the speed of birds in flight. These models
can be used to predict future evolutionary trends and design directions for
aircraft and other vehicles.

“When I would give speeches on this topic, somebody would always bring up
outliers to this principle such as the cheetah as counterexamples,” said
Bejan. “But this study shows that these ‘outliers’ are to be expected and,
when looked at over their lifetimes, are not so different from their lumbering
cousins after all.”

This research was supported by the National Science Foundation.

“The fastest animals and vehicles are neither the biggest nor the fastest over
lifetime,” A. Bejan, Ü. Güneş, J. D. Charles & B. Sahin. Scientific Reports,
DATE 2018. DOI: 10.1038/s41598-018-30303-1

# # #

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

