

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Traveling Salesman Uncorks Synthetic Biology Bottleneck

January 5, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

Computer program scrambles genetic codes for production of repetitive DNA and
synthetic molecules

Researchers have created a computer program that will open a challenging field
in synthetic biology to the entire world.

In the past decade, billions of dollars have been spent on technology that can
quickly and inexpensively read and write DNA to synthesize and manipulate
polypeptides and proteins.

That technology, however, stumbles when it encounters a repetitive genetic
recipe. This includes many natural and synthetic materials used for a range of
applications from biological adhesives to synthetic silk. Like someone
struggling with an “impossible” jigsaw puzzle, synthesizers have trouble
determining which genetic piece goes where when many of the building blocks
look the same.

Scientists from Duke University have removed this hurdle by developing a
freely available computer program based on the “traveling salesman”
mathematics problem. Synthetic biologists can now find the least-repetitive
genetic code to build the molecule they want to study. The researchers say
their program will allow those with limited resources or expertise to easily
explore synthetic biomaterials that were once available to only a small
fraction of the field.

The results appear in Nature Materials, January 4, 2016.

“Synthesizing and working with highly repetitive polypeptides is a very
challenging and tedious process, which has long been a barrier to entering the
field,” said Ashutosh Chilkoti, the Theo Pilkington Professor of Biomedical
Engineering and chair of the biomedical engineering department at Duke. “But
with the help of our new tool, what used to take researchers months of work
can now be ordered online by anyone for about $100 and the genes received in a
few weeks, making repetitive polypeptides much easier to study.”

Every protein and polypeptide is based on the sequencing of two or more amino
acids. The genetic recipe for an individual amino acid—called a codon—is three
letters of DNA long. But nature has 61 codons that produce 20 amino acids,
meaning there are multiple codons that yield a given amino acid.

Because synthetic biologists can get the same amino acid from multiple codons,
they can avoid troublesome DNA repeats by swapping in different codons that
achieve the same effect. The challenge is finding the least repetitive genetic
code that still makes the desired polypeptide or protein.

“I always thought there was a potential solution, that there must be a way of
mathematically figuring it out,” said Chilkoti. “I had offered this problem to
graduate students before, but nobody wanted to tackle it because it requires a
particular combination of high-level math, computer science and molecular
biology. But Nicholas Tang was the right guy.”

After studying the problem in detail, Nicholas Tang, a doctoral candidate in
Chilkoti’s laboratory, discovered that the solution is a version of the
“traveling salesman” mathematics problem. The classic question is, given a map
with a set of cities to visit, what is the shortest route possible that hits
every city exactly once before returning to the original city?

After writing the algorithm, Tang put it to the test. He created a laundry
list of 19 popular repetitive polypeptides that are currently being studied in
laboratories around the world. After passing the codes through the program, he
sent them for synthesis by commercial biotechnology outfits—a task that would
be impossible for any one of the original codes.

Without the help of commercial technology, researchers spend months building
the DNA that cells use to produce the proteins being studied. It’s a tedious,
repetitive task—not the most attractive prospect to a young graduate student.
But if the new program worked, the process could be reduced to a few weeks of
waiting for machines to deliver the goods instead.

When Tang received his DNA, they each were introduced into living cells to
produce the desired polypeptide as hoped.

“He made 19 different polymers from the field in one shot,” said Chilkoti.
“What probably took tens of researchers years to create, he was able to
reproduce in a single paper in a matter of weeks.”

Chilkoti and Tang are now working to make the new computer program available
online for anybody to use through a simple web form, opening a new area of
synthetic biology for all to explore.

“This advance really democratizes the field of synthetic biology and levels
the playing field,” said Tang. “Before, you had to have a lot of expertise and
patience to work with repetitive sequences, but now anyone can just order them
online. We think this could really break open the bottleneck that has held the
field back and hopefully recruit more people into the field.”

This work was supported by the National Institutes of Health (GM061232) and
the National Science Foundation through the Research Triangle Materials
Research Science and Engineering Center (NSF DMR-11-21107).

###

“Combinatorial codon scrambling enables scalable gene synthesis and
amplification of repetitive proteins.” Nicholas C. Tang and Ashutosh Chilkoti.
Nature Materials, December, 2015. DOI: 10.1038/NMAT4521

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

