

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Truskey Appointed Senior Associate Dean of the Pratt School of Engineering

July 8, 2016

Truskey is the R. Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Professor of Biomedical
Engineering at Duke

George A. Truskey has been appointed as senior associate dean of the Pratt
School of Engineering beginning August 1, 2016.

Truskey is the R. Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Professor of Biomedical
Engineering and has served for the past year as interim dean of engineering at
Duke. In his new role, his responsibilities will include fostering
interdisciplinary research, overall space planning including programming of
the planned new building for engineering, working in coordination with the
school’s space committee for the future of interdisciplinary research and
teaching, and strategic planning. Truskey will hold the position through June
30, 2017.

“Duke Engineering is very fortunate to have had George Truskey serve as
interim dean this past year, and now as senior associate dean,” said Ravi
Bellamkonda, incoming Vinik Dean of Engineering, in announcing the
appointment. “Through his scholarship, leadership and service he sets an
exemplary example for all of us. I am thrilled to have the opportunity to work
closely with George to support our faculty, staff and students as we enter an
exciting period of growth and innovation at Pratt.”

Truskey has served on the faculty of Duke’s engineering school since 1987,
holding the position of chair of the Department of Biomedical Engineering from
2003-2011 and senior associate dean for research from 2011-2015.

A fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the
Biomedical Engineering Society (BMES), the American Institute for Medical and
Biological Engineering and the American Heart Association, he leads research
focused on microphysiological systems, cardiovascular tissue engineering and
the role of physical forces in atherosclerosis.

He has served as reviewer for a number of US and international government
agencies and is currently a member of the Steering Committee of the Whitaker
International Fellowship Program at the Institute for International Education.
President of BMES from 2008 to 2010, he received the BMES Distinguished
Service Award in 2012 and the Capers and Marion McDonald Award for Excellence
in Mentoring and Advising from the Pratt School of Engineering in 2007.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

