

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Truskey Named Editor-in-Chief of New Biomedical Engineering Journal

December 15, 2016

George Truskey, the R. Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Professor of Biomedical
Engineering and senior associate dean of the Pratt School of Engineering at
Duke University, has been named the editor-in-chief of the new Elsevier
journal Current Opinion in Biomedical Engineering.

George Truskey, the R. Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Professor of Biomedical
Engineering and senior associate dean of the Pratt School of Engineering at
Duke University, has been named the editor-in-chief of the new Elsevier
journal Current Opinion in Biomedical Engineering.

Launching in 2017, the journal “provides systematic and focused reviews of the
latest developments in different areas of the field of biomedical engineering”
through descriptions of recent trends and subjective opinions.

As editor-in-chief, Truskey will be responsible for appointing section editors
who will commission reviews from authorities on selected topics to stimulate
exchange of ideas amongst experts. Each issue will review two major themes to
help bridge knowledge gaps between researchers, academics, clinicians,
professionals and students with specializations in various sub-disciplines.

The themes that will be covered include: biomaterials, biomechanics and
mechanobiology, biomedical imaging, the future of biomedical engineering,
molecular and cellular engineering, neural engineering, novel biomedical
technologies, and tissue engineering and regenerative medicine.

Two other Duke faculty members will also serve as editors. Charles Gersbach,
the Rooney Family Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, will serve as
editor of the section on molecular and cellular engineering. Warren Grill, the
Edmund T. Pratt Professor of Biomedical Engineering, will serve as a member of
the editorial board.

“I accepted the offer to become editor-in-chief of this journal because it
represents an exciting opportunity to increase the impact of biomedical
engineering,” said Truskey. “The Current Opinion journals are widely read
topical reviews of the latest development in a research area that reach a wide
audience. They are very useful to senior investigators as well as students.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

