

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Dielectric Metamaterial is Dynamically Tuned by Light

May 1, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

Metal-free metamaterial can be swiftly tuned to create changing
electromagnetic effects

Researchers at Duke University have built the first metal-free, dynamically
tunable metamaterial for controlling electromagnetic waves. The approach could
form the basis for technologies ranging from improved security scanners to new
types of visual displays.

The results appear on April 9 in the journal Advanced Materials.

A metamaterial is an artificial material that manipulates waves like light and
sound through properties of its structure rather than its chemistry.
Researchers can design these materials to have rare or unnatural properties,
like the ability to absorb specific ranges of the electromagnetic spectrum or
to bend light backward.

“These materials are made up of a grid of separate units that can be
individually tuned,” said Willie Padilla, professor of electrical and computer
engineering at Duke. “As a wave passes through the surface, the metamaterial
can control the amplitude and phase at each location in the grid, which allows
us to manipulate the wave in a lot of different ways.”

In the new technology, each grid location contains a tiny silicon cylinder
just 50 microns tall and 120 microns wide, with the cylinders spaced 170
microns apart from one another. While silicon is not normally a conductive
material, the researchers bombard the cylinders with a specific frequency of
light in a process called photodoping. This imbues the typically insulating
material with metallic properties by exciting electrons on the cylinders’
surfaces.

These newly freed electrons cause the cylinders to interact with
electromagnetic waves passing through them. The size of the cylinders dictates
what frequencies of light they can interact with, while the angle of the
photodoping affects how they manipulate the electromagnetic waves. By
purposefully engineering these details, the metamaterial can control
electromagnetic waves in many different ways.

For this study, the cylinders were sized to interact with terahertz waves—a
band of the electromagnetic spectrum that sits between microwaves and infrared
light. Controlling this wavelength of light could improve broadband
communications between satellites or lead to security technology that can
easily scan through clothing. The approach could also be adapted to other
bands of the electromagnetic spectrum—like infrared or visible light—simply by
scaling the size of the cylinders.

“We’re demonstrating a new field where we can dynamically control each point
of the metasurface by adjusting how they are being photodoped,” Padilla said.
“We can create any type of pattern we want to, allowing us to create lenses or
beam-steering devices, for example. And because they’re controlled by light
beams, they can change very fast with very little power.”

While existing metamaterials control electromagnetic waves through their
electric properties, the new technology can also manipulate them through their
magnetic properties.

“This allows each cylinder to not only influence the incoming wave, but the
interaction between neighboring cylinders,” said Kebin Fan, a research
scientist in Padilla’s laboratory and first author of the paper. “This gives
the metamaterial much more versatility, such as the ability to control waves
traveling across the surface of the metamaterial rather than through it.”

“We’re more interested in the basic demonstration of the physics behind this
technology, but it does have a few salient features that make it attractive
for devices,” Padilla said.

“Because it is not made of metal, it won’t melt, which can be a problem for
some applications,” he said. “It has subwavelength control, which gives you
more freedom and versatility. It is also possible to reconfigure how the
metamaterial affects incoming waves extremely quickly, which has our group
planning to explore using it for dynamic holography.”

Learn more about metamaterials at https://stories.duke.edu/beyond-materials-
from-invisibility-cloaks-to-satellite-communications

The research was supported by the Department of Energy (DE-SC0014372) and the
Army Research Office (ARO W911NF-16-1-0361).

CITATION: “Photo-Tunable Dielectric Huygens’ Metasurfaces,” Kebin Fan, Jingdi
Zhang, Xinyu Liu, Gufeng Zhang, Richard D. Averitt, and Willie J. Padilla.
Advanced Materials, April 9, 2018. DOI: 10.1002/adma.201800278

# # #

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

