

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Twisting, Flexible Crystals Key to Solar Energy Production

March 15, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

Researchers show how shapes and movements of halide perovskites create
desirable renewable energy properties

Researchers at Duke University have revealed long-hidden molecular dynamics
that provide desirable properties for solar energy and heat energy
applications to an exciting class of materials called halide perovskites.

A key contributor to how these materials create and transport electricity
literally hinges on the way their atomic lattice twists and turns in a hinge-
like fashion. The results will help materials scientists in their quest to
tailor the chemical recipes of these materials for a wide range of
applications in an environmentally friendly way.

The results appear online March 15 in the journal Nature Materials.

“There is a broad interest in halide perovskites for energy applications like
photovoltaics, thermoelectrics, optoelectronic radiation detection and
emission—the entire field is incredibly active,” said Olivier Delaire,
associate professor of mechanical engineering and materials science at Duke.
“While we understand that the softness of these materials is important to
their electronic properties, nobody really knew how the atomic motions we’ve
uncovered underpin these features.”

Perovskites are a class of materials that—with the right combination of
elements—are grown into a crystalline structure that makes them particularly
well-suited for energy applications. Their ability to absorb light and
transfer its energy efficiently makes them a common target for researchers
developing new types of solar cells, for example. They’re also soft, sort of
like how solid gold can be easily dented, which gives them the ability to
tolerate defects and avoid cracking when made into a thin film.

One size, however, does not fit all, as there is a wide range of potential
recipes that can form a perovskite. Many of the simplest and most studied
recipes include a halogen—such as chlorine, fluorine or bromine—giving them
the name halide perovskites. In the crystalline structure of perovskites,
these halides are the joints that tether adjoining octahedral crystal motifs
together.

While researchers have known these pivot points are essential to creating a
perovskite’s properties, nobody has been able to look at the way they allow
the structures around them to dynamically twist, turn and bend without
breaking, like a Jell-O mold being vigorously shaken.

> “This study shows why this perovskite framework is special even in the
> simplest of cases. These findings very likely extend to much more
> complicated recipes, which many scientists throughout the world are
> currently researching. As they screen enormous computational databases, the
> dynamics we’ve uncovered could help decide which perovskites to pursue.”
>
> \- Olivier delaire

“These structural motions are notoriously difficult to pin down
experimentally. The technique of choice is neutron scattering, which comes
with immense instrument and data analysis effort, and very few groups have the
command over the technique that Olivier and his colleagues do,” said Volker
Blum, professor of mechanical engineering and material science at Duke who
does theoretical modeling of perovskites, but was not involved with this
study. “This means that they are in a position to reveal the underpinnings of
the materials properties in basic perovskites that are otherwise unreachable.”

In the study, Delaire and colleagues from Argonne National Laboratory, Oak
Ridge National Laboratory, the National Institute of Science and Technology,
and Northwestern University, reveal important molecular dynamics of the
structurally simple, commonly researched halide perovskite (CsPbBr3)for the
first time.

The researchers started with a large, centimeter-scale, single crystal of the
halide perovskite, which is notoriously difficult to grow to such sizes—a
major reason why this sort of dynamic study has not been achieved before now.
They then barraged the crystal with neutrons at Oak Ridge National Laboratory
and X-rays at Argonne National Laboratory. By measuring how the neutrons and
X-rays bounced off the crystals over many angles and at different time
intervals, the researchers teased out how its constituent atoms moved over
time.

After confirming their interpretation of the measurements with computer
simulations, the researchers discovered just how active the crystalline
network actually is. Eight-sided octahedral motifs attached to one another
through bromine atoms were caught twisting collectively in plate-like domains
and constantly bending back and forth in a very fluid-like manner.

“Because of the way the atoms are arranged with octahedral motifs sharing
bromine atoms as joints, they’re free to have these rotations and bends,” said
Delaire. “But we discovered that these halide perovskites in particular are
much more ‘floppy’ than some other recipes. Rather than immediately springing
back into shape, they return very slowly, almost more like Jell-O or a liquid
than a conventional solid crystal.”

Delaire explained that this free-spirited molecular dancing is important to
understand many of the desirable properties of halide perovskites. Their
‘floppiness’ stops electrons from recombining into the holes the incoming
photons knocked them out of, which helps them make a lot of electricity from
sunlight. And it likely also makes it difficult for heat energy to travel
across the crystalline structure, which allows them to create electricity from
heat by having one side of the material be much hotter than the other.

Because the perovskite used in the study—CsPbBr3 —has one of the simplest
recipes, yet already contains the structural features common to the broad
family of these compounds, Delaire believes that these findings likely apply
to a large range of halide perovskites. For example, he cites hybrid organic-
inorganic perovskites (HOIPs), which have much more complicated recipes, as
well as lead-free double-perovskite variants that are more environmentally
friendly.

“This study shows why this perovskite framework is special even in the
simplest of cases,” said Delaire. “These findings very likely extend to much
more complicated recipes, which many scientists throughout the world are
currently researching. As they screen enormous computational databases, the
dynamics we’ve uncovered could help decide which perovskites to pursue.”

This research was supported by the Department of Energy (DE-SC0019299, DE-
SC0019978, DE-AC02-05CH11231).

CITATION: “Two-Dimensional Overdamped Fluctuations of Soft Perovskite Lattice
in CsPbBr3” T. Lanigan-Atkinsy, X. Hey, M. J. Krogstad, D. M. Pajerowski, D.
L. Abernathy, Guangyong NMN Xu, Zhijun Xu,4 D.-Y. Chung, M. G. Kanatzidis, S.
Rosenkranz, R. Osborn and O. Delaire. Nature Materials, March 15, 2021. DOI:
10.1038/s41563-021-00947-y

# # #

## Related News

September 04, 2020

### ‘Floppy’ Atomic Dynamics Help Turn Heat into Electricity

April 13, 2020

### New Handle for Controlling Electromagnetic Properties Could Enable
Spintronic Computing

November 01, 2018

### Atomic Path from Insulator to Metal Messier than Thought

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

