

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Undergrads Go the Distance to Design for Garmin

May 5, 2020 | By Elizabeth Witherspoon

_Mechanical engineering seniors encounter unexpected terrain working on GPS
smartwatches_

Like the runners who use Garmin smartwatches to map their routes, students in
Neal Simmons’ mechanical engineering senior design class have encountered some
unexpected terrain as they completed two projects for the company this
semester.

Initially Simmons considered them two of the more challenging, yet fun, design
projects, with their many hands-on components and the engineering constraints
to withstand consumers’ rugged use of the products involved. No one knew at
the start of this semester, however, what lay ahead in terms of constraints
added by the coronavirus pandemic.

“Although some of Garmin’s testing facilities have been shut down because of
COVID-19, the students continued to make strong progress remotely on their
prototypes and designs,” said Simmons from his home office. "Adam Demicco
[Garmin’s mechanical engineering team lead] and Garmin have been fantastic to
work with and very supportive of the students. While it is disappointing that
students could not be on campus to work on their final design, we found ways
to continue progress such as setting up 3D printers in our house that students
in all groups could print to, and then shipping them their parts.”

In the fall semester, Demicco offered two project groups the opportunity to
each design a specific sport watch feature for Garmin. The company pioneered
modern smartwatches more than 16 years ago with the Forerunner, the first GPS
(global positioning system) device for runners.

This semester the two groups turned their proposals written in the fall
semester into prototypes, then tested and presented them to Demicco and
Simmons.

Both groups’ designs had to be able to hold up and remain secure in the
rigorous conditions that smartwatch users encounter daily in multisport
settings. These include vibration, dropping, sunlight exposure, bug spray,
dust, grit, freshwater and saltwater, as well as underwater pressures
associated with swimming or snorkeling. Therefore, selecting the right
materials were also an important part of the design phase, explained Simmons.

> “Senior design gave me an opportunity to apply the engineering knowledge and
> creativity I have gained throughout my time at Duke to a real product design
> scenario."

Until classes went online following spring break, the groups worked together
in campus makerspaces and met weekly with Simmons to review progress, ask
questions and obtain feedback on their designs. They used 3D printers to
develop oversize prototypes to work the bugs out of their designs, then
reduced them to meet the specifications spelled out by Demicco.

“Senior design gave me an opportunity to apply the engineering knowledge and
creativity I have gained throughout my time at Duke to a real product design
scenario," said Flurina (Flo) Boslough, who worked on one of the design teams.
“Collaborating with Garmin and an awesome group of mechanical engineering
students to push a conceptual design to a functional prototype was an
incredibly valuable way to conclude senior year. Senior design was the best
group project I have done at Duke and I am stoked with our final design!”

This was Garmin’s first year working with the Pratt School of Engineering. The
company also worked with senior design students in the Department of
Electrical & Computer Engineering. Demicco was impressed by the class
diversity in terms of gender (half are female) and range of backgrounds.

“The students are bright, they’re eager to learn and eager to get as much out
of the process as they can,” he said. “They wanted to go into Garmin and see
all the tests run [the test facility is in Kansas]. And although it’s a
mechanical-only class, they were embracing electrical elements of the design
to improve their final product. They were reaching above and beyond.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

