

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Understanding Cells Under Pressure

October 25, 2019

Brenton Hoffman's lab explores how mechanical forces can shape and control our
cells

Most researchers today understand biology through the principles of chemistry.
Cells can communicate through chemical signals, and traditional medicine has
long focused on how to treat disease by modifying those signals. But according
to Brenton Hoffman, an assistant professor of biomedical engineering at Duke
University, this approach is incomplete, as it ignores a major factor in cell
biology: physics.

“Today, when we get sick we usually get a pill that will affect our chemical
system,” says Hoffman. “But if you look diseases that lack a clear chemical
treatment option, like cancer, asthma, cardiovascular disease, or muscular
dystrophy, they all have a mechanical component that hasn’t previously been
looked at.”

Hoffman is pioneering the new field of mechanobiology, which is the study of
how physical forces affect cell behavior. His lab explores how the chemical
and mechanical aspects of biology interact, and how researchers can use
mechanics to study what he calls mechano-sensitive diseases and address
problems in biology that can't be solved through chemistry alone.

When you apply a force on a cell, that pressure can alter and control its
structure and behavior. For example, the force generated by blood flow pushes
on the cells in blood vessels, helping them grow into the correct shape and
behave normally. The same principle, Hoffman says, can be applied to a disease
like breast cancer.

“A breast tumor is normally discovered when someone fells a lump, and we know
that a lump is a local increase in stiffness, which means it’s a mechanical
input to cells,” says Hoffman. “As we learn more about these mechanical
inputs, we’re examining whether the physical changes in cells and their local
environments that make cancerous tissue stiff may actually be a trigger for
cancer to spread, just like if you have a perturbed growth factor or a mutated
receptor.”

Until recently, researchers had no way to explore how these processes worked,
but the Hoffman lab has circumvented this problem by creating tunable protein
sensors capable of measuring forces inside living cells. These tension sensors
contain a specially engineered module that emits a fluorescent glow under
normal conditions, but dims if it experiences a change in force. The sensor is
placed inside specific proteins that physically connect the cell to its
surroundings. When these proteins feel a physical force, they stretch, causing
the sensor to dim.

“You could argue that we’re making the tools to do basic studies, but that’s
necessary, especially in a newer field,” says Hoffman. “If we can understand
the pathological mechanics, we can control, or maybe eliminate, the
pathological signaling that drives mechano-sensitive disease.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

