

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Using Light and Sound to Reveal Rapid Brain Activity in Unprecedented Detail

May 18, 2022 | Michaela Kane

Duke researchers use a combination of hardware innovations and machine
learning algorithms to create the fastest photoacoustic imaging tool available

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have developed a method to scan and
image the blood flow and oxygen levels inside a mouse brain in real-time with
enough resolution to view the activity of both individual vessels and the
entire brain at once.

This new imaging approach breaks long-standing speed and resolution barriers
in brain imaging technologies and could uncover new insights into
neurovascular diseases like stroke, dementia and even acute brain injury.

The research appeared May 17 in the Nature journal Light: Science &
Applications.

Imaging the brain is a balancing act. Tools need to be fast enough to capture
rapid events, like a neuron firing or blood flowing through a capillary, and
they need to show activity at different scales, whether it’s across the entire
brain or at the level of a single artery.

“You can achieve these things individually, but it’s very difficult to do them
all together,” said Junjie Yao, an assistant professor of biomedical
engineering at Duke. “It’s like choosing between having a fast car that is
small and uncomfortable to sit in, or a large, spacious car that doesn’t go
over 30 miles an hour. For a long time, there wasn’t a way to get everything
you wanted at once.”

In their new study, Yao and his team discuss how they’ve solved this long-
standing trade-off by developing ultrafast photoacoustic microscopy, or UFF-
PAM.

Photoacoustic microscopy uses the properties of light and sound to capture
detailed images of organs, tissues and cells throughout the body. The
technique uses a laser to send light into a targeted tissue or cell. When the
laser hits the cell, it heats up and expands instantaneously, creating an
ultrasonic wave that travels back to a sensor.

UFF-PAM relies on a combination of hardware advancements and machine learning
algorithms to upgrade the technique. On the hardware side, a polygon scanning
system sends more laser bursts to a larger area while a new scanning mechanism
allows the laser scanner and ultrasound sensor to operate at the same time.
According to Yao, these changes doubled the speed of their device, making UFF-
PAM the fastest imaging technology in the photoacoustic community.

Yao and his team then developed a machine learning algorithm that improved the
resolution of their images. They trained it to identify vasculature in the
brain using over 400 images of mouse brains collected in previous experiments.
Although each brain is unique, the algorithm learned how to identify common
structures and used this knowledge to fill in previously missing pixels.

“The resulting images looked as detailed as the high-resolution images we
would usually get if we went at a much slower speed, and we didn’t need to
sacrifice a full field of view,” said Yao.

As a proof of concept, the team used UFF-PAM to visualize how blood vessels in
a mouse brain responded to hypoxia, drug-induced hypotension and ischemic
stroke. During the hypoxia challenge, UFF-PAM tracked how oxygen moved through
the brain and showed that low levels of oxygen caused blood vessels to dilate.

In the second challenge, the team used the drug sodium nitroprusside (SNP),
which is commonly used to treat high blood pressure. Previously, researchers
thought that SNP causes all the blood vessels in the brain to dilate. But Yao
and his team instead showed that only the larger blood vessels open-up, while
smaller blood vessels constrict.

“Because we quickly got a high-resolution view of the smaller vessels, we saw
that dilation is not actually the universal response to the drug,” said Yao.
“We saw that these small vessels couldn’t provide enough oxygen and nutrients
to the tissue, which caused damage.”

In the final challenge, the team used UFF-PAM to observe how the brain
responds to stroke and begins to recover. The team saw that immediately after
a stroke, the blood vessels in the affected area constrict. This causes their
neighboring vessels to also constrict in a phenomenon called a spreading
depolarization wave. Because of the large field of view and high imaging
speed, the team was able to precisely pinpoint the wave’s starting position
and track its movement as it propagated throughout the brain.

Looking ahead, the team aims to use UFF-PAM to explore additional brain
disease models, like dementia, Alzheimer’s disease or even Long COVID. They
also plan to expand the tool’s use outside of the brain to image organs like
the heart, liver and placenta. These organs have traditionally been
challenging to image because they are always in motion, so imaging tools need
to operate at a faster speed.

“There’s a lot that we can do with this technology now that we’ve addressed
these long-standing roadblocks,” said Yao. “We’re trying to pick the most
challenging projects to work on to maximize the impact of this technology.”

This work was supported by grants from the National Institutes of Health (R01
EB028143, R01 NS111039, RF1 NS115581, R21 EB027304, R21EB027981, R43 CA243822,
R43 CA239830, R44 HL138185), the American Heart Association Collaborative
Sciences Award (18CSA34080277), and the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative Grant on
Deep Tissue Imaging 2020-226178 by the Silicon Valley Community Foundation.

CITATION: “Real-time whole-brain imaging of hemodynamics and oxygenation at
micro-vessel resolution with ultrafast wide-field photoacoustic microscopy,”
Xiaoyi Zhu, Qiang Huang, Anthony DiSpirito, Tri Vu, Qiangzhou Rong, Xiaorui
Peng, Huaxin Sheng, Xiling Shen, Qifa Zhou, Laiming Jiang, Ulrike Hoffmann and
Junjie Yao. Light: Science & Application, May 17, 2022. DOI:
10.1038/s41377-022-00836-2

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

