

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Vertera Spine Announces FDA Clearance of COALESCE™ porous PEEK Lumbar
Interbody Fusion Device

July 31, 2017

Company co-founded by MEMS Chair Ken Gall announces clearance for a new
biomedical spinal fusion device

_Press release provided by Vertera Spine_

ATLANTA, July 25, 2017 /PRNewswire/ -- Vertera Spine, a developer of medical
devices using advanced biomaterial technologies, today announced the COALESCE™
Lumbar Interbody Fusion Device has received U.S. Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) 510(k) clearance for use in anterior, transforaminal, posterior, and
lateral lumbar interbody fusion procedures. COALESCE features Vertera Spine's
novel proprietary porous PEEK biomaterial and is the second porous PEEK device
to receive FDA clearance behind Vertera Spine's COHERE® Cervical Interbody
Fusion Device. Vertera Spine will be launching COALESCE for TLIF and PLIF
procedures in multiple footprint, height, and lordotic angle configurations
later this year.

COALESCE combines the osseointegration capabilities of porous metal implants
with the favorable imaging and mechanical properties of traditional PEEK
implants. Unlike metal-coated PEEK implants that can delaminate, COALESCE's
porous PEEK architecture is grown directly out of the implant's solid PEEK
base and has an interfacial strength stronger than the shear strength of
vertebral trabecular bone. Furthermore unlike 3D-printed metal implants,
porous PEEK behaves mechanically similar to bone under compression,
essentially eliminating any stress shielding effects, and does not produce any
imaging artifacts enabling accurate visual assessment of fusion.

Vertera Spine's porous PEEK was first clinically introduced in May 2016 with
the launch of the COHERE device for anterior cervical discectomy and fusion
(ACDF) procedures. To date, over 2,000 implants have been successfully
implanted with early successful clinical outcomes already reported in a peer-
reviewed publication.

"Based on the initial success with the COHERE Cervical porous PEEK device, we
saw the need to apply this innovative technology to other spine applications,"
said Chris Lee, Vertera Spine CEO. "We are pleased to have received FDA
clearance for COALESCE and look forward to further serving surgeons' clinical
demands for a durable fusion device that successfully osseointegrates and
allows for integration to be assessed on imaging."

"I initially became convinced of porous PEEK's clinical benefits by the
successful ACDF outcomes I obtained with the COHERE device," said Gurvinder
Deol, MD, an early COHERE adopter from WakeMed Health and Hospitals in
Raleigh, NC. "However, I believe porous PEEK's true value will be demonstrated
with the COALESCE device in lumbar procedures where the biologic fusion
environment can be more challenging, and the biomechanics more demanding on
fusion devices."

Prior studies have demonstrated the importance of adding porosity to implants
to create a strong bone-to-implant interface and more stable union. Supported
by extensive research at Duke University and the Georgia Institute of
Technology, COALESCE's porous PEEK architecture, with 60% porosity and 300 mm
average pore size, is specifically tailored to elicit the optimal osteogenic
cell response and promote bone tissue ingrowth inside the pores. Dr. Ken Gall,
Ph.D., Chair of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science at Duke
University, will be presenting new benchtop and clinical research on porous
PEEK at the upcoming NASS Summer Spine Meeting this week in San Diego, Ca.

According to Dr. Gall, "Our latest results show that porous PEEK is able to
effectively osseointegrate by forming a mechanical and biological interface
with bone. Our next steps are to translate what we have learned in animal
models to the clinical setting by assessing this bony ingrowth into porous
PEEK on X-Ray and CT."

**About Vertera Spine:**  
Vertera Spine is a privately-held medical device company that develops,
markets, and sells implants that use or complement its patented porous
technology to address critical clinical needs in spine surgery. The company
has received funding from the National Science Foundation, Georgia Research
Alliance, and Duke Angel Network to translate its growing technology portfolio
into commercial products. For more information, visit verteraspine.com or call
678.705.9039.

COALESCE is a trademark of Vertera Spine. COHERE is a registered trademark of
Vertera Spine.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

