

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Visiting Civil Engineering's Sweet Spot

July 21, 2016

Armando Tabernilla (E ’81) helps expose students to grand civil engineering
challenges in south Florida

As far as wanting to give back to your alma mater to benefit the student
experience goes, Armando Tabernilla (E ’81) may have found the sweetest
solution out there.

Last spring break, Tabernilla helped organize a week-long civil engineering
spectacle for a half-dozen Duke students in the delicate ecosystems of
southern Florida. As vice president and general counsel at Florida Crystals, a
sugar cane producer headquartered in West Palm Beach, Florida, Tabernilla was
able to give the students an extensive tour of his company’s vast civil
engineering infrastructure, and serve as a touchstone to open doors to several
other large civil engineering operations in the region.

Florida Crystals’ almost 300-square-mile operation relies on civil engineering
for key infrastructure. Sustainability is a key component of its corporate
philosophy and its largest plant operates on a negative carbon balance by
burning leftover biomass to power the plant and put electricity bank into the
grid.

But that achievement in engineering wasn’t even the most impressive part of
the tour.

“Since we are north of the Florida Everglades and our runoff ultimately drains
into the Everglades, our operations are subject to the strictest water quality
standards and we employ numerous techniques to clean our runoff,” said
Tabernilla. “We also showed the students some of the precision agricultural
equipment that we use to plant, cultivate, and harvest our crops and explained
how by using GPS and robotics we are able to improve production while using
less fertilizer and fuel.”

During the rest of the week, Tabernilla was able to arrange visits to Florida
Power and Light, Florida’s largest utility company, and the South Florida
Water Management District, responsible for managing the areas’ flood control
and water resources. The students also visited the Key Largo Wastewater
Treatment District. Each experience exposed the students to different
challenges faced by civil engineers and the types of jobs that could be
waiting for them after graduation.

“I absolutely loved the trip. Attending was one of the best decisions I made
my freshman year. It was a unique way to get hands-on experience in the field
of CEE and learn about environmental issues in south Florida,” said Hailey
Prevett, a rising sophomore in civil and environmental engineering. “My
favorite part was when we visited the South Florida Water Management District,
where we toured a man-made wetland that helps keep the fragile ecosystem of
the Everglades free from harmfully excessive levels of nutrients and protects
residents of Florida from flooding in the case of a tropical storm. I was
simply awestruck by the volume of water that SFWMD has engineered and how well
they have done it.”

The trip was part of a CEE program designed to raise the profile of civil
engineering careers to students. Over the past few years, students have
visited ongoing projects in New York City, Puerto Rico, Miami and south
Florida thanks to generous volunteer work by alumni such as Tabernilla.

It’s a program that will continue for the foreseeable future.

“I wanted to help give the students an appreciation of the complexity of
agribusiness operations and the many activities and disciplines that must come
together to make it work,” said Tabernilla, who says he plans to help host
future trips as well. “The ability to see civil engineering in practice, in a
real business rather than a classroom, is invaluable.”

Any students interested in joining future civil engineering field trips can
contact Rich Kells at rich.kells@duke.edu.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

