

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Viventi Receives NSF CAREER Award to Optimize Neural Interfaces

April 9, 2018

Competitive five-year grant will help Duke BME faculty member assess and
improve the performance of neural interface designs

Jonathan Viventi, an assistant professor in the department of biomedical
engineering at Duke University, has been awarded a National Science Foundation
Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) Award. This five-year, $550,000
grant, supports outstanding young faculty members in their efforts to create a
successful research enterprise. Viventi will use the grant to optimize neural
interfaces to develop innovative therapies for neurological disorders like
epilepsy, and to improve the performance of prosthetic devices.

Although our understanding of the human brain has evolved in the past several
decades, the technology that allows us to connect to and monitor brain
function largely has not. When studying neurological problems, researchers
typically have to apply electrodes individually to the brain surface, which
are then each wired to separate, far-away recording devices. Because these
wires take up so much space, these tools can only include about a hundred
sensors. This limitation means that researchers are faced with a choice: they
can obtain a high-resolution readings over a small surface area, or low-
resolution readings over a large surface area.

To bypass this trade-off, Viventi has developed flexible electronic sensors
that require a significantly smaller number of wires compared to traditional
neural sensors. Using this new technology, Viventi and his team have increased
the number of sensors on each neural interface, allowing them to sample more
than 65,000 electrodes using fewer than 100 wires.

With the support of the new grant, Viventi’s laboratory will begin to explore
the fundamental design parameters of their novel technology to learn how to
create the most efficient and effective neural interface design.

“Now that we’re building devices that have integrated electronics, we need to
figure out the best designs for these sensors,” said Viventi. “We can already
make them as big as we want or as close together as we want. We can make them
out of different materials and even make them more flexible. But now we want
to find which design works best to allow us to get the most information out of
the brain, and this grant will help us determine that.”

The CAREER award also supports an educational outreach project, where
Viventi’s lab will team up with local high schools in Durham to create a
program focused on neuroengineering. In the learning module, the researchers
will use electromyography (EMG) to show the students how they can use devices
to measure electrical signals generated by their muscles and brain.

“We’re going to have students use circuits to record EMG signals from their
muscles, so when they move their arm, for example, they can watch the EMG
signals change in real time,” said Viventi. “We’re also going to use these
signals to control the movement of a video game character. It’s a fun way of
showing how an electrode captures electrical signals from the body and how we
can use those signals to control prosthetic devices.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

