

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Vo-Dinh Wins 2019 Sir George Stokes Award

May 7, 2019

Award recognizes outstanding and sustained contributions to analytical science
through innovations in photonics, spectroscopy, molecular biology and
nanotechnology

Tuan Vo-Dinh, the R. Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Professor of Biomedical
Engineering, professor of chemistry, and director of The Fitzpatrick Institute
for Photonics at Duke University, has been awarded the 2019 Sir George Stokes
Award by the Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC). Vo-Dinh was recognized for his
"outstanding and sustained contributions to analytical science through
innovations in the field of photonics, spectroscopy, molecular biology and
nanotechnology."

Vo-Dinh's research has produced a host of innovative technologies that have a
profound impact in many fields for improving and protecting the environment
and human health. Vo-Dinh was among the first to combine the recognition power
of nature (e.g. antibodies) with light-based sensing technologies to develop
powerful devices called biosensors.

"This award is very special to me as it underlines the importance of bringing
together different disciplines to create innovative technologies in order to
solve problems of global importance in analytical science," said Vo-Dinh.

The Sir George Stokes award is an award presented every two years by the RSC
that recognizes outstanding and sustained contributions to analytical science
by someone demonstrably working in a complementary field, which has led to
developments of seminal importance to chemical analysis. The award includes a
medal and £2000 in funding, and the recipients are invited to deliver lectures
at up to four universities across the United Kingdom and Ireland throughout
2019.

The Royal Society of Chemistry's Awards and Prizes are awarded in recognition
of originality and impact of research, or for each winner's contribution to
the chemical sciences industry or education. They also acknowledge the
importance of teamwork across the chemical sciences, as well as the abilities
of individuals to develop successful collaborations. Of those to have won a
Royal Society of Chemistry Award, 50 recipients have gone on to win Nobel
Prizes for their pioneering work.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

