

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Atomic Path from Insulator to Metal Messier than Thought

November 1, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

Utrafast view of atomic motions in vanadium dioxide lays groundwork for
advances in computer hardware

Researchers have peeked behind the curtain of the ultrafast phase transition
of vanadium dioxide and found its atomic theatrics are much more complicated
than they thought. It’s a material that has fascinated scientists for decades
for its ability to shift from being an electrical insulator to a conductor.

The study, which appears Nov. 2 in the journal Science, is a collaboration
between researchers at Duke University, the SLAC National Accelerator
Laboratory at Stanford, the Barcelona Institute of Science and Technology, Oak
Ridge National Laboratory, and the Japan Synchrotron Radiation Research
Institute.

Vanadium dioxide has been intensely studied by researchers for more than five
decades because of its unusual ability to switch from insulator to conductor
at the conveniently attainable temperature of 152 degrees Fahrenheit. While
other materials are also capable of this transition, most occur well below
room temperature, making vanadium dioxide a better option for practical
applications.

More recently, materials scientists have explored how this same phase
transition takes place when the material’s atomic structure is excited by an
extremely short, ultrafast laser pulse. What makes the phenomenon so
challenging to study is the remarkable speed at which it happens—about 100
femtoseconds. That’s one tenth of a millionth of a millionth of a second.

The ultra-bright X-ray pulses at SLAC’s Linac Coherent Light Source (LCLS),
however, are even faster.

By triggering vanadium dioxide’s electrical phase transition with a
femtosecond laser and then pinging its atoms with X-ray pulses just tens of
femtoseconds long, researchers were able to watch the transition unfold in
full detail for the first time. They found that, rather than transitioning
from one atomic structure to another in a direct, collaborative manner, the
vanadium atoms arrived at their destinations through more unpredictable routes
and independently of each other.

“It was proposed that the material would go from one crystalline structure to
the other by following a deterministic, well-defined shuffling,” said Olivier
Delaire, associate professor of mechanical engineering and materials science
at Duke and one of the leaders of the study. “Instead we discovered that, even
within a single transition, each atom is doing its own thing independently of
the others.”

“The disorder we found is very strong, which means we have to rethink how we
study all of these materials that we thought were behaving in a uniform way,”
said Simon Wall, an associate professor at the Institute of Photonic Sciences
in Barcelona and one of the leaders of the study.

The atoms don’t move smoothly into their new positions like band members
marching down a field; they stagger around like partiers leaving a bar at
closing time.

“If our ultimate goal is to control the behavior of these materials so we can
switch them back and forth from one phase to another, it’s much harder to
control the drunken choir than the marching band,” Wall said.

To unravel the meaning of the experimental observations, Delaire’s group at
Duke also led supercomputer simulations of atomic dynamics in the material.
The simulations ran on supercomputers at the National Energy Research
Scientific Computing center and the Oak Ridge Leadership Computing Facility.

“It was mind-blowing when my student Shan Yang showed me the results of her
quantum simulations of atomic motions,” continued Delaire. “It almost
perfectly matched the experimental ‘movies’ of recorded X-ray intensities,
even without the need for adjustable parameters.”

Previous studies did not have access to the spatial and temporal resolution
offered by the LCLS, and could only measure averages of the material’s atomic
behaviors. Because of these limitations, they could not see the importance of
random deviations from the average motions of vanadium atoms.

With the sensitivity of the LCLS however, researchers could get a much clearer
picture of what was going on.

“It’s sort of like astronomers studying the night sky,” said Delaire.
“Previous studies could only see the brightest stars visible to the naked eye.
But with the ultrabright and ultrafast x-ray pulses, we were able to see the
faint and diffuse signals of the Milky Way galaxy between them.”

This study, and others like it, are key to understanding the behavior of
photo-excited materials. For example, if properly harnessed, the atomic
reaction of vanadium dioxide revealed in this study could form the basis of
ultrafast transistors for computers combining photons and electrons. And
researchers are also using this general concept in the pursuit of the dream of
room-temperature superconductors.

“The new knowledge we gained into the process of the photo-induced insulator-
to-metal transition in vanadium dioxide should be directly relevant to re-
evaluating our understanding of other materials,” said Delaire. “We’re just
starting to explore this new realm of being able to control the behaviors of
materials just by shining light on them, and combining state-of-the-art x-ray
facilities with supercomputers to follow what’s happening. And we’re finding
out that the atomic dynamics involved are even more complicated than we had
previously thought.”

This research was supported by the Department of Energy (DE-SC0016166, DE-
AC02-76SF00515, DE-AC02-76SF00515, DE-AC02-05CH11231, DE-AC05-00OR22725).

CITATION: “Ultrafast disordering of vanadium dimers in photoexcited VO2.”
Simon Wall1, Shan Yang, Luciana Vidas, Matthieu Chollet, Michael Glownia,
Michael Kozina, Tetsuo Katayama, Thomas Henighan, Mason Jiang, Timothy A.
Miller, David A. Reis, Lynn A. Boatner, Olivier Delaire and Mariano Trigo.
Science, 2018. DOI: 10.1126/science.aau3873

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

