

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Awarded $4.5 Million to Advance Global Research Technologies in
Sanitation, Public Health

November 13, 2020

Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation grant awarded to the Center for Water,
Sanitation, Hygiene and Infectious Disease (WaSH-AID)

Duke University has received a $4.5 million grant to support the management of
field-testing transformative sanitation technologies to improve public health,
Ravi V. Bellamkonda, Vinik Dean of the Pratt School of Engineering at Duke,
announced Thursday.

The Duke University Center for Water, Sanitation, Hygiene and Infectious
Disease (WaSH-AID) received the grant from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
to support the management of field testing of “reinvented toilets” and other
new hygienic technologies in India. The grant will enable the Center for WaSH-
AID researchers, partnering with the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras
and relevant Indian government stakeholders, to help colleagues test maturing
sanitation technologies with actual users and communities.

“Duke engineers are leading transformative research to provide safe sanitation
solutions for both local and global communities,” Bellamkonda said. “We are
grateful for the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation’s investment in our Center
for WaSH-AID to lead collaboration with experts at Duke, across the industry
and around the world to address this critical societal challenge.

“Advancing technologies for public health is particularly germane to control
the spread of preventable diseases, and in this case also advance a
fundamental human right -- dignity.”

Globally, an estimated 4.2 billion people lack access to safely managed
sanitation. Since 2011, the Gates Foundation's “Reinvent the Toilet”
initiative has invested hundreds of millions of dollars in new technologies
designed to provide inexpensive, off-grid, self-contained sanitation
worldwide.

With multiple grants through the initiative, Duke researchers established the
Center for WaSH-AID in 2017 to expand on their efforts to develop and deploy
novel, sustainable technology-enabled solutions to address complex challenges
to human health and the environment.

Through the Center for WaSH-AID, principal investigator Sonia Grego will work
with established local partners, supporting the new India Engineering Field
Testing (EFT) project, delivering effective field testing and provide
rigorous, sophisticated technical evaluation of multiple sanitation
technologies developed by researchers from around the world.

The project leverages Grego’s multi-year experience as the technical field
testing lead of the Sanitation Technology Platform (STeP), an RTI
International program aimed at accelerating business success and social impact
in the global sanitation market. In her role, Grego established relationships
with field engineers, researchers and institutions in Coimbatore, India. These
relationships will form the foundation of ongoing collaboration as the Center
for WaSH-AID launches the EFT project.

The extensive data generated by the India EFT team will help bring new
technical solutions to market and lower the risks for future technology
investments. The India EFT project will also grow the role of Indian personnel
and expand collaboration with other Indian research organizations in field
testing support.

“Field testing is a critical step in developing these new technologies since
they provide us with data on the performance and robustness of prototypes
under realistic use conditions,” said Grego, an associate research professor
in Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering. “I am thrilled for the opportunity to
continue working with a fantastic team of U.S. and Indian engineers to develop
these innovative technologies which hold promise to benefit the health of
billions of people currently lacking improved sanitation.”

Ultimately, the vision is for the project to become a trusted expandable model
in India, providing assessment of onsite sanitation technologies for both
government and private clients to accelerate the wide adoption of much-needed
sanitation solutions.

## Related News

February 17, 2020

### Off-Grid Sanitation Systems Show Promise in Global Testing, Despite Toilet
Paper Sabotage

November 05, 2018

### Reinventing the Toilet: Seeking a ‘Safe and Dignified Solution’ to the
Sanitation Crisis

November 16, 2017

### World Toilet Day: Duke Engineers Tackle the Global Sanitation Crisis

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

