

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Wax Named Editor-in-Chief of SPIE Journal Optical Engineering

October 23, 2020 | Michaela Kane

Duke BME’s Adam Wax will assume the role of Editor-in-Chief beginning January
1, 2021

Adam Wax, a professor of biomedical engineering at Duke University, will
become the new editor-in-chief of _Optical Engineering_ , a journal published
by SPIE, the international society for optics and photonics.

According to David Sampson, the chair of the SPIE Publications Committee and
pro-vice-chancellor of Research and Innovation at the University of Surrey,
Wax was ideal for this position due to the depth of his expertise in optical
engineering, his academic rigor and his commercial experience with several
successful startups.

Wax specializes in using optical spectroscopy for early cancer detection,
novel microscopy and interferometry techniques. Recently, Wax developed a new
imaging device that can measure both the thickness and texture of various
layers of the retina at the back of the eye. Researchers are optimistic that
this tool could be used to detect a biomarker of Alzheimer’s disease,
potentially offering a widespread early warning system for the disease.

Beyond this work, Wax and his lab have also designed a low-cost, portable
optical coherence tomography (OCT) scanner, which performs clinically accurate
eye scans and can be easily transported to underserved regions around the
globe. This scanner provided the basis for Wax’s most recent startup, Lumedica
Inc., which recently received a Phase II SBIR grant from the National Science
Foundation.

"I am very excited to be taking on the role of editor-in-chief at _Optical
Engineering_ ," says Wax. "I've been an associate editor for the journal for
many years and it is a great new challenge to be in the EIC role. I know OE is
a go-to resource for many of us in the field, and I will be working to make
sure that it continues to be valuable for optics and photonics engineers in
academia and industry research."

Optical Engineering is one of 12 journals published by SPIE, which serves more
than 255,000 constituents from 183 countries, offering conferences and their
published proceedings, continuing education, books, journals, and the SPIE
Digital Library.

View SPIE’s announcement on their site.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

