

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# We Have Liftoff!

April 28, 2021 | Elizabeth Witherspoon

Two-stage rocket launched by Duke AERO student team reaches 8,000-foot
altitude

In Dr. Seuss’ iconic book _The Cat in the Hat_ , twin characters Thing 1 and
Thing 2 burst out of the box Cat brought into the house and wreaked havoc,
flying kites indoors. While just as powerful, Duke AERO’s two-stage rocket,
dubbed Thing 1 and Thing 2, behaved much better when it burst into the skies
over Bayboro, N.C., April 25.

The two-stage rocket launched, separated and reached an apogee (highest
altitude) of 8,000 feet before deploying its parachute and returning to Earth
for safe recovery by undergraduate mechanical engineering students. Check out
this video of the launch.

The students, who built, launched and recovered the rocket and are now
analyzing its flight data, are members of Duke University AERO (Aviation
Engineering Research Opportunities) Society, a chapter of the American
Institute for Aeronautics and Astronautics.

“Duke AERO usually competes in the Spaceport America Cup each June in New
Mexico,” explained Matthew Urke, president of Duke AERO. “Before the COVID
pandemic in 2020, we were working on our rocket for the competition to target
an altitude of 30,000 feet. This year, the competition was virtual, so we
decided to take on a new project—to design, build and independently launch
this two-stage rocket that we called Thing 1 and Thing 2.”  

The team plans to resume work on a 30k rocket next fall for a return to the
Spaceport Cup in 2022, he added.

The team launched from Bayboro because it is one of the best launch sites for
high-powered amateur rocket flights on the East Coast. The Federal Aviation
Administration requires a waiver to launch high-powered rockets and the
Bayboro site has a waiver to fly up to 17,500 feet. Urke said three other
collegiate rocketry teams were at the site the same afternoon. He added that
both the Pratt School of Engineering’s Dean’s Office and the COVID-19 Travel
Sub-Committee of the Provost’s Global Travel Advisory Committee approved this
travel by the student group.

## Related News

April 27, 2016

### Duke AERO: Giving Lift to Students’ Careers

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

