

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Wiesner Reappointed Chair of Duke Civil & Environmental Engineering

January 23, 2018

Plans to continue the growth of the department in both size and reputation

Mark Wiesner has been reappointed chair of Duke’s Department of Civil and
Environmental Engineering (CEE), and will hold the new three-year term through
2021.

Wiesner has served as chair of Duke CEE since 2015, seeing the department hire
five new faculty members, implement new undergraduate and graduate programs,
and consistently rise in the annual rankings published by _U.S.News & World
Report_. In the coming years, Wiesner plans to work with CEE faculty to
continue these trends by growing into new research space, recruiting more
students and aggressively seeking external funding for major research centers.

“CEE is a critical part of Duke Engineering, home to great scholarship, and
the incubator for some of our most successful alumni,” said Ravi Bellamkonda,
Vinik Dean of the Pratt School of Engineering, in announcing the appointment.
“Mark’s reappointment gives us the opportunity to further shape the research
vision for the department, hire great and diverse faculty, and develop
exciting and cutting-edge educational programs at all levels.”

The smallest of Duke Engineering’s four departments, CEE nevertheless
continues to punch above its size. The department was ranked 15th and 12th by
U.S.News & World Report for undergraduate and graduate education in
environmental engineering, respectively. And the department’s faculty rank as
8th in scholarly productivity among U.S. engineering schools in civil
engineering and 11th in environmental engineering, based on data from Academic
Analytics. Internationally, Duke was recently named #11 in the world in
environmental science & engineering in the 2016 Academic Ranking of World
Universities.

Driving this rise in rankings is Duke CEE’s steady growth in most every metric
over the past few years. Wiesner has overseen the hiring of five new faculty
members and the implementation and ABET accreditation of a new undergraduate
program in environmental engineering. The curriculum features a new
introductory course called “Engineering the Planet” and will soon also
incorporate new school-wide courses in design, data science and computational
thinking.

“We want to get the types of problems that environmental and civil engineers
deal with in front of students as early as possible,” said Wiesner. “When they
realize our engineers are addressing global issues from air pollution to
drinking water quality or the environmental standards for international trade
of new materials, while traveling to South America, China and Europe, they get
excited.”

Wiesner says the department will also focus on growing their master’s
programs, that now include new Master of Engineering programs in risk
engineering and computational mechanics launched this year. He cites the work
of Deans Bellamkonda and Truskey in making available space in Gross Hall, the
Chesterfield Building downtown, and future expansion plans as creating new
opportunities for faculty both in quantity and quality of research space. As
the department continues to devote resources to recruiting and retaining top
faculty, Wiesner sees an opportunity to go after grants for new externally
funded centers.

“We’ve had the luxury of having our faculty collaborate in two major research
centers funded over the past decade with the Center for the Environmental
Implications of NanoTechnology (CEINT) and the Superfund Center,” said
Wiesner. “My goal now is to catalyze new interdisciplinary collaborations to
forge new centers around challenges such as risk and resilience engineering,
understanding the microbiome, and providing for our future needs in food,
water and energy.”

Wiesner is a recognized global leader in the civil and environmental
engineering community. He has made many important contributions to the
research literature since his arrival at Duke in 2006, with a primary focus on
the potential for nanoparticles to accumulate in the environment. In 2008,
Wiesner launched CEINT to investigate these issues with funding from the
National Science Foundation and the Environmental Protection Agency.

His research leadership has earned him accolades such as the 2011 NWRI Athalie
Richardson Irvine Clarke Prize for excellence in water research, and induction
in 2015 into the National Academy of Engineering—one of the highest
professional distinctions accorded an engineer in the United States.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

