

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Wills Wins National Science Foundation CAREER Award

February 9, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

Prestigious five-year award will help develop fundamental building blocks
enabling more developers to take advantage of hardware-accelerated systems

Lisa Wu Wills, the Clare Boothe Luce Assistant Professor of Computer Science
and Electrical and Computer Engineering at Duke University, has been awarded a
prestigious National Science Foundation Faculty Early Career Development
(CAREER) Award. The award supports outstanding young faculty members in their
efforts to build a successful research enterprise.

For the next five years, the $500,000 award will support Wills’s ambitious
goals of developing a new execution paradigm that decomposes algorithms into
coarse-grained operators instead of traditional execution work units such as
instructions. This new execution paradigm will describe how and what portions
of applications can be accelerated and executed on a hardware-accelerated
system.

Since the digital revolution began decades ago, progress in computational
power has roughly followed Moore’s Law—the prediction that the number of
transistors on a silicon chip will double every two years. Due to physical
constraints in just how small transistors can be made and the heat they
generate, however, that period of exponential growth is coming to an end.

To overcome these physical limits of computational speed, many researchers are
turning to specially designed hardware accelerators. While most every computer
processor is designed to be generally adaptable to any task a programmer can
imagine, custom hardware is tailor-made to execute a set of algorithms more
efficiently. Though this pigeonholes them into a specific domain, it also
improves their efficiency and speed tremendously.

“Hardware specialization is the next necessary step to meet the computational
demands of modern applications systems from data centers to mobile devices,”
said Wills. “Developing and using hardware accelerators and accelerated
systems, however, is extremely challenging. And the problem is exacerbated by
a lack of open hardware components and intellectual property in the field. My
goal is to provide these open access tools to help developers create and
deploy highly efficient hardware-accelerated systems.”

The path forward being pursued by Wills is based on what she’s termed Domain-
Specific Primitives, or DSPs. These are essentially coarse granular units of
computational algorithms that describe portions of applications that can be
accelerated and executed on a hardware-accelerated system. By creating a
library of potential hardware replacements that correspond to certain
algorithmic functions commonly found in software code, Wills plans to provide
computer scientists and programmers new powerful tools to use when designing
their algorithms. These DSPs can be used by software compilers, programmers,
and hardware development designers to compose, program, develop and optimize
domain-specific, hardware-accelerated systems in a systematic fashion.

The proposed DSPs can be applied to many domains to solve open problems in the
interdisciplinary areas of computer architecture and healthcare to advance
fields that bring direct impacts to human flourishing, such as machine
learning, cancer research and drug discovery.

On top of the fundamental research goals, the grant will also allow Wills to
create undergraduate courses that teach the concepts behind DSPs and how they
are applied to accelerate systems as well as similar efforts in Duke’s
innovative summer Data+, CS+ and Code programs. It will also support hands-on
tutorials at top-tier computational architecture conferences to teach
audiences how to develop and deploy example hardware-accelerated systems in
the cloud.

“The result of this project will be a transformative realization in highly
performant, highly efficient and highly productive development of hardware-
accelerated systems that are easy to use,” said Wills.

## Related News

September 04, 2019

### Lisa Wu Wills: Designing Custom Processors to Accelerate Health Care
Research

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

