

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Writing New Recipes for High-Performance Materials

February 26, 2021 | Elizabeth Witherspoon

Duke materials scientists and engineers deploy AI and other digital tools to
accelerate development of new materials to harvest energy, heal the body and
more

* * *

New high-performance materials are as vital to meeting complex needs in
energy, national security, health care and communications as silicon is to the
information age.

Atoms and molecules of natural and synthetic elements are the building blocks
of new metal alloys that withstand the temperatures of space travel or improve
circuits in electronic devices. Newly discovered polymer nanocomposites have
enabled new capacitors and electrodes for the energy grid and flexible
electronics. Engineered hydrogels and other biomaterials can help repair human
bone or deliver pain medication inside surgical wounds.

Materials scientists and engineers in Duke University’s Thomas Lord Department
of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science (MEMS) are leading research to
design and discover these novel materials for our future.

Collaborating across disciplines, they are leveraging the powers of
supercomputing, artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning to cut years
off the materials discovery process. They are building open-source platforms
to share these data with academic institutions and industry—bringing us closer
to solutions for some of society’s toughest problems.

Many have likened the enterprise to developing new recipes for the materials
of tomorrow. Below, take a look at what’s cooking in the labs—and minds—of
some of Duke MEMS faculty members:

## Stefano Curtarolo

Accelerating Discovery of Metal Alloys by Standardizing Data

_Professor of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science_

_Director, Center for Autonomous Materials Design_

_Leader, Duke Automatic-FLOW for Materials Database (AFLOW)_

Stefano Curtarolo was delighted when the U.S. government launched its
Materials Genome Initiative to speed the discovery and dissemination of new
materials in 2011, as it increased attention and funding for the work that he
had begun almost a decade earlier. Once toiling among only a handful of others
worldwide to find new recipes for metal alloys and build a standardized
database for sharing information about various material properties, he now
leads a consortium of 16 institutions across the globe who continually update
this open source that helps researchers build practical new materials.

The Duke Automatic-FLOW for Materials Database (AFLOW) now contains
information on 3.3 million material compounds with over half a billion
calculated material properties, including a comprehensive update and addition
of a database of crystalline lattice structures.

Curtarolo’s group mines these data to run high-throughput computer simulations
that have produced new metal alloys, as well as the recipes for two new
magnetic materials.

“The ability to rapidly predict the existence of these magnetic materials is a
major coup and will be invaluable to materials scientists moving forward,”
said Curtarolo.

Most recently, his group identified a potentially promising alloy with a very
high melting point that could enable it to substitute for the expensive rare
earth metal rhenium in high-temperature applications like rocket engine
nozzles.

Curtarolo also will use the AFLOW database, AI and machine learning in his
latest project–leading a $7.5-million, five-year Multidisciplinary University
Research Initiative (MURI) award from the Office of Naval Research with
collaborators from four other universities–to identify super/ultra-hard
disorded ceramics with a wide array of potential applications.

## Cate Brinson

Finding Hard Answers to Soft Matter Questions

_Donald M. Alstadt Chair, Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering &
Materials Science_

_Sharon C. and Harold L. Yoh, III Professor_

_Director, AI for Understanding and Designing Materials (aiM)_

Cate Brinson’s research combines computational models, data science and
physical experiments to lay the groundwork for developing new materials for
applications ranging from a more stable power grid to biomedical devices and
lightweight structures. An internationally recognized expert in soft matter
who joined Duke in 2017, she leads a $5-million National Science Foundation-
funded national consortium focused on building a data-driven framework
specifically for the discovery of new polymer nanocomposites and structural
metamaterials.

“If you have significant portions of the relevant data fully accessible, then
you can create a design loop where you start to design materials based on the
ideal properties for a given application,” said Brinson. NanoMine is a
platform to make this data readily available to other researchers that
otherwise would take years to tease out manually from traditional journal
resources.

> NanoMine is a platform to make this data readily available to other
> researchers that otherwise would take years to tease out manually from
> traditional journal resources.

Think of this data framework as analogous to the step before chefs can author
their recipes. It will be the reference guide for the recipe writers that
explains how different ingredients behave in various combinations and under
various conditions. Listen to Brinson explain it in Duke Engineering’s Rate of
Change podcast, “In the Kitchen with NanoMine.”

Using this platform along with machine learning tools, her team has
demonstrated the power of data and design to find the optimal composition and
microstructure of dielectrical (insulating) nanocomposites, which eliminates
the traditional tradeoff between a material's electrical insulating capacity
and its ability to prevent current from breaking through, enabling new
paradigms in capacitors for energy applications.

Brinson also leads a new $3-million NSF-funded graduate training program,
called "AI for Understanding and Designing Materials (aiM).” This program
integrates training for PhD students in both materials and computer science,
teaching them how to collaborate to advance the frontiers of research and
training in the new convergent field leveraging the power of AI.

## Volker Blum

Unlocking the Secrets of New Energy Materials

_Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science_

_Leader,Ab Initio Materials Simulations Group at Duke_

_Coordinator and Lead Developer, FHI-aims computer platform_

Volker Blum’s group uses computational models incorporating the fundamental
laws of quantum mechanics to help develop new semiconductor materials for
energy-related applications, such as photovoltaic materials or low-cost
manufacturable organic-inorganic semiconductors. He works with a range of
collaborators at Duke, elsewhere in North Carolina’s Research Triangle region
and across the globe.

The U.S. Department of Energy tapped Blum, along with Duke colleagues David
Mitzi and Adrienne Stiff-Roberts, and 13 other researchers nationally to
better understand and control the emergent phenomena of spin, charge, and
light/matter interactions in hybrid organic-inorganic semiconductors to
potentially unlock new energy technologies.

In a recent development the group helped demonstrate hybrid semiconductors in
which a targeted chiral molecule–a structure that exists in two different,
mirror-symmetric versions, in the same way as human hands are mirror-symmetric
but not identical–transfers its "handedness" from the organic molecule to the
inorganic part of the structure. They showed that this "chirality transfer"
enables control over the spin-related character of the semiconductor
electronic bands, which is an important step toward using these types of
materials in electrical devices that work based on the electrons' spin.

“The materials used for the first hybrid perovskite solar cells were invented
in the 1970s by a German laboratory that just wanted to study their properties
to see what they could do,” said Blum, who led the computational modeling side
of the research. “It wasn’t until 40 years later that someone got the idea to
use them for a solar cell. In many ways, that’s what we’re doing here with
chiral-induced spin selectivity.”

In the NSF-funded HybriD3 consortium, Blum and five other principal
investigators at Duke, University of North Carolina and North Carolina State
University also focus on hybrid organic-inorganic perovskites in a broader
materials space exploration. Part of this work includes the creation of an
open, curated materials property database, called HybriD3, intended to aid the
efforts of other researchers, nationally and internationally, in navigating
this promising class of semiconductor materials.

> "The FHI-aims program provides a mathematical guide for materials research.”

Blum is also the lead developer and one of the coordinators of the community
developing the FHI-aims computer program, which computational materials
researchers worldwide use to predict properties of condensed matter
(molecules, clusters, solids, liquids, etc.) based on a description of their
electronic structure.

“If you want to predict a material’s properties, you need to know what its
structure is at given conditions and how it responds to external stimuli like
pressure, temperature, light or an electrical field. And to predict all these
behaviors, you need to know how to calculate the energy of the materials'
atoms in a particular arrangement, and how this energy changes based on
external stimuli,” said Blum. “That is what the FHI-aims program provides–it’s
a mathematical guide for materials research.”

## Gaurav Arya

Modeling Soft Materials with Hard Calculations

_Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science_

Gaurav Arya’s group uses computational methods to provide fundamental,
molecular-level understanding of a diverse range of biological and soft
material systems. His collaborations reach across the U.S. to address
questions critical to materials discovery. He provides materials modeling
leadership for an $18-million NSF center developing nanoscale building blocks
for self-assembling mesomaterials with emergent properties and on additional
$2-million and $1.75-million NSF grants on developing dynamic DNA-based
devices for nanoscale sensing and genome engineering applications.

The group recently developed a simplified method for calculating the forces
that cause nanoparticles to self-assemble into larger structures. This method
enables previously impossible predictions about how nanoparticles with a wide
variety of shapes will interact with one another, opening up opportunities for
rationally designing such particles for applications in solar energy
harvesting and in catalyzing new types of reactions.

“Accurately calculating the forces that pull these particles together at very
close range is extremely computationally expensive,” said Arya. “We have now
demonstrated an approach that speeds those calculations up by millions of
times while only losing a small amount of accuracy.”

> “We have now demonstrated an approach that speeds up calculations by
> millions of times while only losing a small amount of accuracy.”

Borrowing another cooking analogy for materials research, Arya also proposed a
method for designing nanoparticles that takes advantage of forces in the
layers formed by liquids, like those of oil and vinegar in an unshaken bottle
of vinaigrette. His idea is to precisely control these competing
forces—clustering vs. repelling—to help scientists create novel arrangements
in assembly of materials, enabling new combinations with new properties and
applications.

“There are so many things to do next. For one, we’d like to explore the full
repertoire of possible structures and phases researchers could make using this
concept. We are also working closely with experimentalists to test the full
capabilities of this approach,” said Arya.

Learn more about Duke MEMS Computation & Artificial Intelligence Research

## Related News

November 18, 2019

### Organic Sandwiches Create Quantum Wells for Next Generation Electronics

September 09, 2019

### DNA-Based Nanobots Earn Duke MEMS Its Fifth DMREF Award for Materials
Science

November 26, 2018

### Disordered Materials Could Be Hardest, Most Heat-Tolerant Ever

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

