

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# X-ray Scanner Spots Cancers and Analyzes Drugs in Minutes

June 8, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

New technology could speed cancer diagnosis, ensure surgeons remove 100% of a
tumor and inspect drugs for dangerous chemicals

Engineers at Duke University have demonstrated a prototype X-ray scanning
machine that reveals not just the shape of an object but its molecular
composition. With unprecedented resolution and accuracy, the technology could
revolutionize a wide range of fields such as cancer surgery, pathology, drug
inspection and geology.

Many of the ideas behind the prototype were originally conceived in the
pursuit of performing better bomb detection for aviation security. In the new
paper, published online May 19 in the journal Scientific Reports, the
researchers adapted the technology for several targeted scientific and medical
applications.

“Whether you’re trying to spot a bomb in a bag or a tumor in a body, the
physics is more or less the same,” said Joel Greenberg, associate research
professor of electrical and computer engineering and faculty of the medical
physics program. “But from an engineering point of view, the constraints on
the two are very different. We built this smaller, higher-resolution device to
demonstrate that our approach could be used for a number of different
applications.”

The technology is a hybrid X-ray system that combines conventional X-ray
transmission radiography with X-ray diffraction tomography. The former
involves measuring the X-rays that pass straight through an object. The latter
involves gathering deflection angle and wavelength information from X-rays
that have scattered (or bounced) off of an object, which provide a sort of
“fingerprint” unique to that material’s atomic structure.

One of the hurdles to adopting this technology is that the scattered X-ray
signal is typically very weak and complex. This results in very few X-rays
reaching the detector with each image captured, which leads to long delays
while the scanner gathers enough data for the job at hand.

The Duke team’s approach uses a coded aperture, a sort of pierced shield that
allows X-rays traveling at many different angles to pass through its holes.
The trick is in knowing the exact pattern being used to block the X-rays,
which a computer can then use to process the larger, more complex signal. This
allows the researchers to gather enough deflected X-rays to ID the material in
a shorter time span.

In the paper, the researchers developed a new method for creating high-
quality, 3D coded apertures, designed a new machine end-to-end with a user
interface and compact footprint, and built a prototype using off-the-shelf
components regularly used in medical imaging.

"Designing improved algorithms and implementing advanced manufacturing was
essential to achieving the desired imaging performance" said Stefan Stryker, a
PhD student and first author on the paper.

“Security scanning systems have different goals than an oncology lab,” said
Anuj Kapadia, who was an associate professor of radiology and faculty in Duke
medical physics at the time of performing the research but is now at Oak Ridge
National Laboratory. “Security systems need to peer through tens of
centimeters of random objects in a matter of seconds, whereas our goal was to
get a high-resolution image of a small, well-defined specimen with less of a
time restraint.”

The biggest challenge tackled by the prototype scanner involved making
accurate diagnoses of potentially cancerous tissues. Working with colleagues
at Duke Health, the researchers scanned tissue lumpectomies before they were
sent to the resident pathologists for their clinical workups. The scanner not
only matched the clinical diagnosis accurately, but it also reliably
distinguished between the subtypes of tissue in and around the cancerous
tissue.

“Our eventual goal is to have one of these scanners in every operating room so
that surgeons can get an instantaneous diagnosis as soon as the cancer is
removed, and they can immediately check to see if any cancerous cells are
present on the edges,” said Kapadia. “That way, if there’s any suspicion that
they missed some of the cancer, they can immediately go back and get the
rest.”

“While margins can often be evaluated by pathologists while the patient is
still in the operating room, for tissues like breast, specimens removed at
surgery require a 24-hour processing cycle before their margins can be
properly assessed,” said Shannon McCall, associate professor of pathology,
vice chair for translational research in the department of pathology, and
director of the Duke BioRepository & Precision Pathology Center (Duke BRPC).
“If this new instrument allowed us to accurately assess the margins of these
types of tissues while the patient was still in the operating room, that would
be fantastic. Women could potentially be spared additional surgical
procedures.”

The researchers then showed that the scanner could provide a real-time
analysis of pharmaceuticals. Not only could this help manufacturers ensure
their product is reliable, but it could also be used by police forensics
departments or public health campaigns to make sure people are not selling or
overdosing on tainted drugs.

The scanner also proved capable of quickly analyzing rocks lent to them by an
amateur collector, Greenberg’s nine-year-old daughter, Madelyn. Such analyses
could be useful for archaeologists studying fossils or miners making decisions
about which ore to use in their extraction facilities.

Moving forward, the research team has a grant from the National Institutes of
Health to optimize the scanner for tissue samples. Quadridox Inc., which was
founded by Greenberg and Kapadia along with colleagues Michael Gehm (Duke) and
Amit Ashok (University of Arizona), is pursuing translating the technology
into products that might instead be optimized for larger rocks, quicker
pharmaceutical scans or biospecimen analyses.

“We built this scanner to show all of the different types of things that it
could accomplish,” said Greenberg. “But a commercial machine for each
application might have its own set of engineering variations, such as the way
in which we make measurements, the choice of sensors or the architecture.”

“If you were going to design a projector, you would need to know if it was
going to be used in a dark theater or in broad daylight. The specifications
would be completely different,” added Kapadia. “Similarly here, our goal is to
find many applications where these sorts of scans could be useful, and then
engineer a variety of scanners to fit their specific needs.”

This research was supported by the North Carolina Biotechnology Center
(2018-BIG-6511) and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security
(18STEXP00001-03-02).

CITATION: “X-Ray Fan Beam Coded Aperture Transmission and Diffraction Imaging
for Fast Material Analysis,” Stefan Stryker, Joel A. Greenberg, Shannon J.
McCall & Anuj J. Kapadia. Scientific Reports 11, Article number 10585 (2021).
DOI: 10.1038/s41598-021-90163-0

## Related News

February 19, 2020

### A Speedier and More Accurate Future for Airport Security Screening

October 10, 2019

### Safe Travels

December 07, 2018

### Duke to Lead $5.83 Million DHS Project to Reinvent Airport Screening

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

