

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Y Combinator Meets Biotech, Life Sciences Companies at Duke

March 2, 2020

The future of bio companies is for scientists to start their own, Y Combinator
partners said

_From theDuke Innovation & Entrepreneurship Initiative_

At a lunchtime chat on February 25, representatives from Y Combinator—a seed-
stage accelerator and venture capital firm that has helped launch more than
2,000 companies—spoke with a large audience of Duke undergrads, grad students,
post-docs, faculty, and staff about what it takes to fund and scale a company.

Y Combinator had been known primarily for its portfolio of software and tech
companies. However, since investing in its first biotech company in 2014, Y
Combinator has funded more than 250 bio- and life-science companies—currently
valued at $7 billion. It is rapidly becoming one of the largest seed-stage
biotech investors in the world.

> Among Duke alumni who have taken a company through Y Combinator are Class of
> 2009 engineering undergraduate Howie Liu, and 2012 Master of Engineering
> Management graduate Andrew Dietrich

According to Visiting Partner Uri Lopatin, Y Combinator believes the future of
bio companies is for scientists to start their own companies—and much earlier
in their careers than they previously would have—and to keep control of those
companies.

“We can teach an experienced scientist to be a business person much more
easily than we can teach an experienced business person to be a brilliant
scientist,” he said.

Among the Duke alumni who have taken their companies through Y Combinator are
Class of 2009 BSE graduate Howie Liu, whose startup Etacts was sold to
Salesforce; and 2012 Duke Master of Engineering Management graduate Andrew
Dietrich, whose company, Final, was acquired by Goldman Sachs.

Y Combinator Partner Kat Mañalac and Lopatin were introduced by Fioleda
Kesseli, executive director of Duke Engineering Entrepreneurship (EngEn) and
director of operations for the BRiDGE startup accelerator.

The chat and Y Combinator’s other activities at Duke were co-sponsored by Duke
Engineering, MEDx: Medicine + Engineering at Duke, and Duke Innovation &
Entrepreneurship (I&E).

READ MORE

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

