

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Yao Receives NSF CAREER Award to Monitor the Brain Using Photoacoustic
Imaging

January 24, 2022 | Michaela Kane

Competitive five-year grant will help Junjie Yao develop new imaging
technologies to explore how oxygen consumption influences brain function

Junjie Yao, assistant professor of biomedical engineering at Duke University,
has won a National Science Foundation Early Career Development (CAREER) Award.
The competitive five-year grant will provide Yao with $500,000 to develop new
photoacoustic imaging technologies to visualize how the brain consumes oxygen.
Yao aims to use this information to explore how oxygen consumption affects
numerous neurodegenerative diseases and brain illnesses, like Alzheimer’s
Disease.

Yao is a pioneer in photoacoustic imaging, which is a method of imaging that
uses short laser pulses and ultrasound waves to create detailed and colorful
biomedical images. Unlike other imaging technologies, like X-ray, CT scans, or
MRI, photoacoustic imaging allows researchers to quickly and accurately image
everything from a single cell to an entire body. Besides improved scalability,
photoacoustic imaging allows researchers to gather functional and molecular
information about tissue and cellular targets.

Since joining Duke in 2016, Yao has used the technology to create full-body
scans of animal models that show blood flow, organ activity and firing neural
networks. He’s also helped advance the imaging technology so it can non-
invasively measure the temperature of deep tissues and track deep-brain
activity.

With the CAREER Award, Yao will build on this work to develop new
photoacoustic imaging technologies and data science tools to map the oxygen
metabolism in the brain. These advances will enable Yao to study the brain’s
functions at a high resolution, allowing researchers to better decipher brain
activity.

“There currently aren’t any technologies that allow researchers to non-
invasively track oxygen consumption in the brain, so we still don’t know a lot
about how the brain uses oxygen to regulate blood flow in both healthy and
diseased states,” Yao said. “But photoacoustic imaging allows researchers to
non-invasively measure how oxygen is consumed throughout the brain. Our goal
is to improve the resolution of photoacoustic imaging so we can track oxygen
consumption in the brain in different physiological states.”

By developing these improved imaging tools, Yao and his team plan to measure
oxygen consumption in healthy animal models and compare the biomedical data to
disease models, like those for Alzheimer’s disease. This information could
then help neuroscientists determine if decreased oxygen levels are a
contributing factor for Alzheimer’s disease progression.

To ensure that this work can be broadly useful to the neuroscience community,
Yao and his team will also use the grant to build a public, digital library of
their findings.

“Once we’ve got the proof of concept developed, we hope to use these new tools
to measure the brain at a variety of different conditions and disease states
and in different animal models,” Yao said. “Researchers would then have full
access to this information and use it to guide and support their own work.”

Yao also hopes to incorporate the new technology into both undergraduate and
high school science courses so students can learn more about both technology
development and brain imaging. His team plans to develop a computer-based game
that will challenge students to match levels of oxygen consumption to
different levels of brain activity or disease states.

“I’m very honored to receive the CAREER Award,” says Yao. “It takes us a while
to develop the technology to get to this level of recognition, so it’s very
rewarding that now we’ll have a chance to provide technology that can
potentially be really impactful for the broader research community.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

