

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Yao Named “Champion of Science” for 2021 International Day of Light

May 17, 2021 | Michaela Kane

Junjie Yao and 19 other researchers were recognized for their work to use
light to make important scientific advancements

Junjie Yao, an assistant professor of biomedical engineering at Duke
University, was recently named a “Champion of Science” by the UNESCO
International Day of Light Steering Committee. Yao was one of 20 researchers
recognized for their pioneering work and contributions to light science and
related technologies.

“I’m absolutely honored to be selected as a Champion of Science,” says Yao.
“With the pandemic lingering around the world, it is more important than ever
to promote photonic science and technology in human health care. I will take
this valuable opportunity to work with my outstanding peers to make a brighter
and more colorful future for society.”

Yao was recognized for advancing the field of photoacoustic tomography (PAT).
The powerful imaging technology uses short laser pulses paired with ultrasound
waves to create detailed biomedical images that can help researchers detect
abnormalities, like malignant cells. Although standard imaging technologies
like X-ray, CT scans or MRI can provide larger anatomical images, PAT provides
researchers with a way to precisely and quickly image everything from a single
cell to a patient’s entire body. Beyond this flexibility, PAT allows
researchers to gather functional and molecular information about tissue and
cellular targets.

Yao helped develop the fastest photoacoustic imaging system in 2015, which
allowed researchers to view how the brain consumes oxygen. At Duke, Yao and
his lab are using the technique to perform neurological studies to better
understand neurons, blood vessels and other structures in the brain.

The International Day of Light took place on Sunday, May 16, 2021. This global
initiative provides an annual focal point for the continued appreciation of
light and the role it plays in science, culture and art, education and
sustainable development. The event also highlights the diverse role of light
in fields like medicine, communications and energy.

At Duke, the Fitzpatrick Institute of Photonics (FIP) also highlights the role
of light in engineering and explores the frontiers of photonics during their
annual FIP Symposium. This year, the event will kick off on the International
Day of Light.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

