

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » Publications » Data & The Duke Engineer

# Data on Data

Fast facts about data science initiatives @ Duke, from faculty expansion to
educational impact

## ****

## **$9.75 million** in philanthropic support

for the Information Initiative at Duke (iiD) will boost the work of a landmark
cross-campus effort harnessing massive amounts of information to tackle
society’s biggest challenges.

Launched in 2013, iiD brings together faculty and students from Duke
Engineering, math, social sciences, medicine and beyond to make sense of “Big
Data”­—information characterized by tremendous volume, variety and rapid
change—to address a broad range of issues facing our world. The gifts from an
anonymous donor, plus challenge funds from philanthropists Anne T. and Robert
M. Bass through Duke’s interdisciplinary Bass Connections program, will endow
**new professorships, graduate fellowships in engineering, and educational
programs** on data-driven problem-solving, both in the classroom and in the
field.

## Gold Award Winner

Duke’s Data+ program took home gold in the 2016 **Reimagine Education** global
competition recognizing “projects that enhance learning and employability and
are both innovative and scalable.”

## **61** Undergraduates & **28** Graduate Students

teamed up with faculty to conduct 25 real-world, data-driven research projects
through Duke’s Data+ program in 2016

## **27** graduate students have led **15** Data Expeditions

in undergraduate courses—from analyzing international carbon dioxide emissions
to applying linear algebra to autism detection in infants. Learn more about
Data Expeditions

## **30+** partners

from industry, government, and nonprofits have collaborated with the
Information Initiative at Duke on research, workshops, internships and other
hands-on learning for students

## **250,000+** active learners

enrolled in Duke’s “Data Analytic Techniques for Business” online course
sequence via Coursera

## New engineering faculty hires planned in the data sciences

Duke Engineering is expanding its faculty expertise in the data sciences.
Currently we are recruiting:

  * **1** Professor of the Practice in Data Science
  * **1** Rhodes Family Professor with expertise in information, computing and
    data science to advance interdisciplinary learning for the information age

Learn more & read about Duke Engineering’s commitment to diversity in hiring »

> “I think the emergence of information and big data will be as
> transformational for our economy as the Industrial Revolution was during its
> time.”
>
> **Michael Rhodes E’87**  
>  Member, Duke Engineering Board of Visitors

Michael and Maureen Rhodes gave $1.667 million (matched through Duke’s Bass
Connections program) to create the new **Rhodes Family Professorship** at Duke
Engineering.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

