Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Serving Society

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About

Biomedical engineering is, by its nature, a way for engineers to improve the
human condition — an embodiment of the phrase 'service to society.' Biomedical
engineers are constantly improving the state of health care and making new,
important advances in disease detection and treatment.

Duke's BME educational program features several truly distinctive
opportunities for our students to engage in hands-on learning and to make a
difference in the lives of others.

## Duke-MUK Partnership: Building Transformative capacity in uganda

The Duke-MUK partnership is a commitment between Duke and Makerere University
(MUK) in Kampala, Uganda, to collaborate on the education of biomedical
engineers and the development of biomedical devices.

The goal of the partnership is to enable transformational capacity building in
Uganda by training BME professionals and future MUK faculty. Through the
partnership, classes are taken simultaneously by students at Duke and MUK. MUK
BME graduates are offered scholarships to study for Master of Science degrees
at Duke.

The partnership is directed by Duke's William M. Reichert and the founder of
MUK's BME program, Charles Ibingira.

## GWHT: Addressing Global challenges in women's Health

The Center for Global Women’s Health Technologies (GWHT) aims to provide
multidisciplinary and multicultural experiences to motivate Duke students to
utilize science and technology to tackle global challenges in women’s health.

The center also works to increase research, training and education in women’s
diseases with an initial focus on women’s cancers and maternal-fetal health.

For example, GWHT has developed a low-cost, smartphone-based colposcope for
the screening of cervical cancer.

The center's director is Nimmi Ramanujam.

## DHT Lab: Inventing Health care Tech for the world's neediest

The Developing World Healthcare Technologies Laboratory (The DHT Lab) is
dedicated to understanding, creating and disseminating healthcare technology
to the world's neediest. We have classes, trips, design challenges and many
more opportunities for you to make a difference right now. Specific offerings
include:

  * The Duke Engineering World Health Summer Institute in Tanzania and
    Nicaragua
  * BME 462 - Design for the Developing World
  * NAE Grand Challenge Scholars
  * Pratt Fellows, Research Program
  * DHT Lab Fellows, Independent Study Program
  * Duke Engineering World Health Chapter, including weekly meetings and
    annual trips to Guatemala

The DHT Lab is led by Robert Malkin.

## BME 460: Creating Custom Devices for People with Disabilities

BME 460, a capstone design course, is offered to engineering students at Duke
University. Students are paired with health care professionals to build custom
assistive, recreational or therapeutic devices for people with disabilities in
the local community.

For example, students modified a bike to allow a woman who was injured in an
automobile accident to ride again.

The course is taught by Kevin Caves.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

