Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Welcome from the Chair

Welcome to the Department of Biomedical Engineering (BME) at the Duke
University Pratt School of Engineering

Joseph A. Izatt, PhD

Our department is one of the oldest, and one of the best in the country. We
consistently rank among the very top undergraduate and graduate programs in
the field.

Throughout the past 40-plus years, Duke BME faculty have pioneered new areas
of biomedical engineering research, taken leadership of major societies, and
authored some of the leading textbooks in the field.

Our graduates have achieved distinction through major awards such as the
Rhodes, Fulbright and Marshall Scholarships and National Science Foundations
fellowships. These graduates have become leaders in academia and in the
biomedical engineering industry.

> Our undergraduate, master's and PhD degree programs consistently rank among
> the very top

Research in the department began with cardiac electrophysiology, medical
ultrasound and biomaterials. It now encompasses many of the new areas of the
field including neural engineering, biophotonics, cellular biomechanics,
tissue engineering, synthetic biology, and drug and gene delivery.

We are also fortunate to be within walking distance of Duke University School
of Medicine and Duke University Hospital—one of the best medical schools and
hospitals in the country—and within a 30-minute drive of the University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill and North Carolina State University.

This ideal location has led to numerous collaborations with nearby scientists
and physicians, and fosters a collegial environment of excellence.

One of the hallmarks of societally relevant biomedical engineering is the
ability to translate basic research advances into useful devices or therapies
that impact patient care.

> Our partnership with the Wallace H. Coulter Foundation facilitates
> translation of research advances to patient care

Our department was one of a handful that was awarded $10 million by the
Wallace H. Coulter Foundation to endow the Coulter Translational Research
Partnership program to facilitate the translation of research advances in BME
to patient care. This endowment was matched with an additional $10 million
from Duke and will help to enable the movement of promising biomedical
discoveries from the bench to the bedside.

Our department is fortunate to have an excellent group of staff members who
direct the teaching labs, provide IT support, give administrative support for
grants, our educational programs, payroll and purchasing. Their efforts are
essential to the effectiveness of the department.  
  
Duke BME has remained strong and vibrant, primarily because we continue to
attract outstanding people who want to make a difference by engineering
tomorrow's solutions to today's health care issues. I encourage you to take a
look at all that we have to offer.

**Joseph A. Izatt**  
Chair of Biomedical Engineering, Duke University  
Michael J. Fitzpatrick Distinguished Professor of Engineering

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

