

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Undergraduate » Bachelor of Science in Engineering (BSE)

# Undergraduate Certificates at Duke

Undergraduate certificates enhance your degree by spanning multiple
engineering disciplines

## Architectural Engineering

Undergraduate students learn about the planning, design, construction, and
operation of commercial, industrial and institutional structures.

Duke's architectural engineering courses get students out of the classroom and
on-site at construction work happening on and near the Duke campus. More
information »

## Aerospace Engineering

Focused undergraduate certificate work on the conceptualization, design,
analysis, and performance of aerospace systems.

Rigorous and in-depth exposure to scientific and engineering fundamentals in
the broad set of core disciplines. More information »

## Energy and the Environment

Provides engineering undergraduates with an understanding of the breadth of
issues confronting society related to its need for clean, affordable and
reliable energy.

Co-sponsored by Duke's Pratt School of Engineering and Nicholas School for the
Environment. Offered through The Gendell Center at Duke University. More
information »

_For students interested in the technical aspects of energy engineering, Duke
also offers a_Minor in Energy Engineering »  

## Global Development Engineering

Courses for this undergraduate engineering certificate includes technical
subjects as well as culture and language, ethics, public policy, and
economics.

In addition to course work, students get real-world experience, implementing a
designed solution in the United States or abroad. More information »

## Materials Science & Engineering

Learn the scientific and engineering principles related to the fundamental
structures, properties and technological applications of materials.

Expert faculty teach from multiple disciplines. In addition to technical
training, also learn about the role of technology in science, public policy
and the economy. More information »

* * *

## Other Opportunities

### Innovation and Entrepreneurship

Designed specially to provide cross-disciplinary study complementary to any
major. The certificate requires an in-depth course of study examining the
theories of innovation and entrepreneurship, coupled with hands-on practice in
both areas.

More about the I&E certificate »

### Trinity College of Arts & Sciences

Engineering students may also pursue certificates offered through Duke's
Trinity College of Arts & Sciences.  

Browse certificate programs in Arts & Sciences »

* * *

## Explore Duke

  * Admissions
  * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
  * Student Entrepreneurship
  * 4+1: BSE + Master's: Earn a master's with a fifth year

## Certificate vs. Minor

What's the difference?

Both certificates and minors offer opportunities to pursue subjects you're
passionate about.

The chief difference is:

  * A **minor** is focused on a specific discipline of a particular department
  * Study for a **certificate** often spans multiple disciplines or
    departments

Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate experience »

## Undergraduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 20, 2023 | Bass Connections

### Taking the Bull City by the Horns

February 22, 2023 | The Chronicle

### Sydney Hunt of Duke ECE Among Duke Young Trustee Finalists

View all undergrad news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

