

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Undergraduate » Bachelor of Science in Engineering (BSE)

# General Degree Requirements

For the Bachelor of Science in Engineering (BSE) at Duke

## Writing (1)

This requirement is met by completing a University Writing Course.

## Mathematics (5)

This requirement is met by completing Mathematics 111L(31), 112 (32), 212
(103), 216 (107) and 353 (108).

## Natural Science (4)

This requirement is met by completing Chemistry 101DL (21L), Physics 151L
(61L) and 152L (62L), and an elective course in one of the natural science
departments which presents fundamental knowledge about nature and its
phenomena, preferably including quantitative expression.

_Note: Each department maintains a list of allowable courses that will satisfy
the Natural Science requirement. Consult those department websites and/or
departmental offices.  
_

## Humanities and Social Science (5)

This requirement is met by completion of five courses selected from at least
three of the following four areas of knowledge: Arts, Literatures and
Performance (ALP), Civilizations (CZ), Foreign Languages (FL), and Social
Sciences (SS). At least one course must be classified SS. In order to provide
depth in the subject matter, at least two of the five courses must be selected
from a single department and at least one of those courses must be 200 or
above. Courses selected must be those that present essential subject matter
and substance of the discipline.

## Engineering and Applied Sciences, Digital Computation (4)

This requirement is met by completion of one course from each of four of the
following seven areas: digital systems, electrical science, information and
computer science, mechanics (solid and fluid), materials science, systems
analysis, and thermal science and transfer processes. Students are expected to
have acquired digital-computer programming capability before their sophomore
year. The programming capability is generally satisfied by Engineering 103L
(53L).

## Engineering Department Courses (15)

The academic department (BME, CEE, ECE or MEMS) administering the major field
of study, or the interdisciplinary curricula for IDEAS students, specifies
this requirement.

In general, it consists of both required and elective courses planned in
consultation with a student's advisor. Including the 4 credits in engineering
and applied sciences listed under general requirements (see above paragraph),
a total of 13.0 credits in engineering work are required.

* * *

## Explore Duke

  * Admissions
  * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
  * Student Entrepreneurship
  * 4+1: BSE + Master's: Earn a master's with a fifth year

Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate experience »

## Undergraduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 20, 2023 | Bass Connections

### Taking the Bull City by the Horns

February 22, 2023 | The Chronicle

### Sydney Hunt of Duke ECE Among Duke Young Trustee Finalists

View all undergrad news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

