

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Undergraduate » Bachelor of Science in Engineering (BSE)

# Majors & Minors

Duke Engineering offers five ABET-accredited BSE majors—as well an
interdisciplinary option

## Engineering Majors at Duke

### Biomedical Engineering

Biomedical Engineering (BME) applies engineering science to problems in
biology and medicine — including the design of medical instruments, artificial
organs and tissues, and nanoparticles for drug delivery.

#### Study Areas

  * Biomechanics of blood flow, cells, and hard and soft tissues
  * Molecular, cellular and biosurface engineering, including tissue
    engineering and drug delivery
  * Electrobiology of the heart and nervous system
  * Medical imaging systems and biomedical optics
  * Medical informatics

Major in BME

### Civil Engineering

Civil engineers (CE) plan, design, manage and maintain the construction and
operation of systems that support our society — such as bridges, dams,
buildings, airports, and wastewater treatment plants.

#### Study Areas

  * Structural engineering and mechanics
  * Water resources

Major in CE

### Environmental Engineering

Environmental engineers (EnvE) work to balance the needs of growing human
populations and the environment, addressing challenges such as pollution,
traffic congestion, energy needs, and community planning.

Major in EnvE

### Electrical & Computer Engineering

Electrical and computer engineers (ECE) encompass the largest engineering
workforce in the United States. Duke ECE provides more opportunities and is
more flexible and less restrictive than many other ECE programs in the United
States.

Students use this flexibility to expand their horizons and explore personal
interests more deeply.

#### Study Areas

  * AI and Machine Learning
  * Computer Engineering and Digital Systems
  * Signal Processing, Communications and Control Systems
  * Solid-State Devices and Integrated Circuits
  * Electromagnetic Fields
  * Photonics

Major in ECE

### Mechanical Engineering

Mechanical engineering (ME) is a broad and interdisciplinary field integrating
all of engineering. The mechanical engineer is involved in biotechnology,
nanotechnology, as well as transportation, energy, and communication
technologies.

#### Study Areas

  * Thermal and fluids systems
  * Mechanics and biomechanics
  * Dynamics, including nonlinear dynamics and control
  * Special attention is given to the aerospace and transportation vehicle
    industries

Major in me

### Interdisciplinary Options (IDEAS)

Interdisciplinary Engineering & Applied Science (IDEAS)

At Duke, an engineering undergraduate can select an interdisciplinary option
for their major. We call it IDEAS.

An IDEAS curriculum is a combination of advanced courses focused on a topic,
often one aligned with Duke Engineering's professional master's degree
programs. This provides a deep exploration of a topic and focused preparation
for a career.

More about IDEAS

## Engineering Minors at Duke

### Machine Learning & Artificial Intelligence (AI)

The Minor in Machine Learning & Artificial Intelligence provides
undergraduates with an understanding of the core concepts of ML and AI, as
well as a rigorous and coherent exposure to both fundamental theories and
applications.

Minor in ML/AI

### Electrical & Computer Engineering

The minor in Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) provides a Duke
undergraduate with a broad, fundamental foundation, coupled with the
opportunity to explore advanced topics tailored to their specific interests.

#### Study Areas

  * Computer engineering and digital systems
  * Signal processing and communications
  * Solid-state devices and integrated circuits
  * Control systems and robotics

Minor in ECE

### Energy Engineering

Energy poses perhaps the greatest challenges of our time – from meeting demand
to minimizing environmental impact. The Minor in Energy Engineering (EE)
prepares future leaders to solve these problems. Graduates are well-prepared
for careers focused on engineering solutions to energy-related issues.

#### Study areas

  * Energy generation and delivery
  * Energy conversion and efficiency
  * Energy engineering and the environment

Minor in Energy Eng

* * *

## Explore Duke

  * Admissions
  * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
  * Student Entrepreneurship
  * 4+1: BSE + Master's: Earn a master's with a fifth year

## Certificate vs. Minor

What's the difference?

Both certificates and minors offer opportunities to pursue subjects you're
passionate about.

The chief difference is:

  * A **minor** is focused on a specific discipline of a particular department
  * Study for a **certificate** often spans multiple disciplines or
    departments

## ABET Accreditation

Our BME, CE, EnvE, ECE and ME undergraduate engineering degrees are accredited
by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, abet.org.

Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate experience »

## Undergraduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 20, 2023 | Bass Connections

### Taking the Bull City by the Horns

February 22, 2023 | The Chronicle

### Sydney Hunt of Duke ECE Among Duke Young Trustee Finalists

View all undergrad news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

