

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Application Requirements

## Application Fee

An application fee of US$75 is required. Paid by credit card within your
online application.

### Fee Waivers

We offer application fee waivers in a limited number of situations. All
requests must be submitted **before** an application is submitted. Fees paid
before a waiver is requested and confirmed cannot be refunded.

These waiver opportunities are available:

If you: **  
**

Gather this information:

Send it by email to: **  
**  
  
Are a current Duke or DKU student

Duke Student ID and Duke Unique ID

Pratt_masters@duke.edu  
  
Have submitted a Duke Graduate School Application and paid an application fee
for the same term of admission

Proof of payment to the Duke Graduate School

Pratt_masters@duke.edu  
  
Attended a live event offered hosted by faculty and staff on behalf of the
Admissions & Recruiting office, in person or online

Fee waivers will be applied after the event to attendees of live events,who
have active Duke University Pratt School of Engineering applications

Register and attend the event LIVE  
  
Are in a program for underrepresented students, including Project 1000 and the
Gates Millennium Scholars program

A letter signed by the program director verifying your participation

Pratt_masters@duke.edu  
  
Were in a service organization, including the Peace Corps and Teach for
America, within one year of your date of application

A letter signed by the program director verifying your participation within
one year of application

Pratt_masters@duke.edu  
  
Are an active member, reservist or veteran of the U.S. Armed Forces

A copy of current orders or DD-214

Pratt_masters@duke.edu  
  
Are a Fulbright candidate

Proof of your Fulbright candidacy

Pratt_masters@duke.edu  
  
* * *

## Transcript

### Applicants

Before submitting an application, applicants are required to upload one (1)
copy of a scanned _unofficial_ transcript from each institution attended.
Admitted applicants send _official_ transcripts at the time of admission.

#### Important notes

  * Illegible scans will _not_ be accepted. Take care that scanned documents
    are legible before uploading
  * Official English translations must accompany documents, not in English
  * Official English translations must bear an original ink signature and seal
  * Translations alone will not be accepted
  * For institutions not using a 4.0 system, an estimated GPA and grade scale
    are required  

### Uploading Transcripts

  * Check with your institution's registrar to see if electronic transcripts
    are offered
  * Paper transcripts must be scanned and uploaded
  * Upload your institution's web-based academic record, if available.

#### Important notes

  * Make sure your file text is oriented **vertically**
  * Make sure that **all** critical and identifying marks have been scanned
    and are legible. These include the institution's name, your name, the
    names of your courses and the grades you have received.
  * Make sure that your file is in MS Word or PDF format
  * Make sure that your file does not exceed 1.5 MB.
  * To minimize file size, you may scan your file at the lowest legible
    resolution and in black-and-white

Once you have uploaded your file, **click the "View Document" button** to
ensure that what you've uploaded is legible throughout.

If you cannot upload a legible unofficial transcript, you will be asked to
have an official transcript mailed to Duke. Contact us for help. This is a
variation of our standard process and will delay review of your application.

Applicants from China and India may find these Transcript Guidelines helpful.

* * *

## Grade Scale

Your Grade Scale—also known as a grading system, score system, or percentage
system—tells us what your grades mean.

It does not need to convert to a 4.0 scale but should show differentiation
between passing scores and indicate a failing score at your institution. It
should also explain other marks on your transcript, such as Withdrawal, Audit,
or Incomplete.

Please upload to us the official scale your institution uses. This can be the
reverse side of your transcript, a screenshot of the registrar’s guidelines,
or an excerpt from your transcript.

Please review these examples.

### Grade Scale Examples

#### Reverse of Transcript From a US institution

####

#### Reverse of Transcript from an Indian Institution

#### Example from an Indian Institution

####

#### Example from a Chinese Institution

####

#### Excerpt from Chinese Institution, in Both Chinese and English

* * *

## Short-Answer Essays

Provide responses in your online application

### Degree Program Applicants: 3 Short-Answer Essay Questions

  1. We can learn about your past experiences from your resume, but we’re interested in your plans. Why are you most interested in pursuing the Master of Engineering Management (MEM) degree from Duke University?
  2. Professionalism & The Five Principles are the pillars of the Duke MEM program. Choose one (1) principle and explain how you plan to contribute in that way at Duke MEM and beyond.
  3. Does any elective track within the Duke MEM program fit your needs? If so, which one and why? If not, and understanding you are free to change your mind later, list 3-4 electives within or outside MEM and how they will help you meet your career goals.

### Certificate Program Applicants: 1 Short-Answer Essay Question

  * We can learn about your past experiences from your resume, but we’re
    interested in your future plans. Why are you most interested in pursuing
    the Business Foundations certificate from Duke University?

* * *

## Résumé

We require a résumé that highlights experience, activities, and leadership

It can include experience on the job, in the classroom, in a volunteer
setting, or a club or organization.

Work experience is not required for the campus program, but current
undergraduates can focus on any internship experience.

**If you have a preferred format, please use it.** If you don't, you might
find it helpful to view sample resumes from Duke Engineering Management
students:

  * Each includes the student's resume before and after the program (you may
    even find a typo in the "before" version)
  * Notice the kind of information highlighted

Generally, students with little experience should be able to get down to a
maximum of two pages.

Example  
Graduate Before  
Duke Engineering Management After  
Duke Engineering Management  
  
**United States**  
Recent Graduate

Example 1A Example 1B  
  
**India**  
1 Year Experience

Example 2A Example 2B  
  
**China**  
Recent Graduate

Example 3A Example 3B  
  
**South America**  
3 Years Experience

Example 4A Example 4B  
  
* * *

## Letters of Recommendation

For master's degree applicants: We require **three (3)** letters of
recommendation.

Non-degree and certificate applicants: We require **two (2)** letters of
recommendation.

Recommendations must be submitted electronically in the online application.
These can be academic or professional. If you’re still a student, at least one
should be academic. If you’re a working professional, it’s fine for all three
to be professional.

When choosing academic recommendation providers, don’t simply choose those
professors who gave you the highest grades. Instead, think about selecting
those who can give insight into your preparedness for the program. Give them
an overview of the program, a copy of your resume and an understanding of your
goals.

In the online application, you will be required to enter the contact
information of your recommenders—including your email address. The
recommenders will, in turn, be emailed a link from which they will access the
online recommendation form and be allowed to upload a letter in support of
your application.

#### Important note

You may submit your application if your recommendation providers haven't yet
submitted their recommendations. Our online application system will continue
to match your material after submission.

* * *

## Video Introduction

Your Duke application includes a required video introduction in which you'll
answer one question.

The question prompt will be shown to you, and you will have at least 60
seconds to prepare. You do not have to use it the entire time.

Be sure to relax! The purpose of the video introduction is simply to get to
know you better. It is only one part of your overall application.

Please note that if you have submitted more than one application to Duke's
Pratt School of Engineering, you may see more than one question:

  * For the Master of Engineering Management application, use the question
    labeled "Pratt"
  * For a Master of Science or PhD application, use the question labeled
    "Engineering"

* * *

## Interview

Interviews are by invitation only

While interviews allow us to learn more about you, they also allow you to
learn more about Duke and see if this program is right for you. There will be
time for your questions during the interview—use it!

#### Important Notes

  * You may not request an interview
  * Interviews are completed in the weeks before the decision notification
    date
  * An invitation to interview does not guarantee admission
  * We use Zoom or WebEx videoconferencing for interviews
  * Before the interview, Duke will email you a videoconference link via Slate
    Scheduler

### How to Prepare for the Video Interview

  1. Use a laptop or desktop computer. _No smartphones, please_
  2. Use a headset with an integrated microphone. _To keep background noise low, do not rely on your computer's mic and speakers_
  3. Connect to a reliable internet source. _Free or public wireless internet is discouraged_
  4. On the day, fully check the following:

  * Headset mic and sound levels
  * Battery charge and/or power plug connection

* * *

## English Language Testing

Duolingo is preferred _  
_

The Duolingo English Test is the preferred language testing option of the
Admissions & Recruiting team at the Pratt School of Engineering. For more
information on the Duolingo English Test, visit the Duolingo website at
englishtest.duolingo.com/applicants.

### Why Duolingo?

  * Costs a fraction of the other leading language assessments
  * Offers reduced test time
  * Is a convenient, secure at-home exam
  * Is accepted by universities around the world
  * Provides results within 48 hours of exam completion
  * Your results can be shared with unlimited institutions at no extra cost

Plus, Duolingo seamlessly integrates with your application to the Pratt School
of Engineering. It provides a further dimension to your candidacy by allowing
for video interviews and writing samples to be captured and viewed by the
admissions committee. As such, if you do attend Pratt School of Engineering,
you will not have to be additionally assessed for language classes when you
submit a Duolingo English Test as part of your application.

#### Important Notices

  * All international students may be required to take English placement exams
    prior to the start of classes, pending their language score submission
    provided in their application for admission to the Pratt School of
    Engineering
  * Submitting Duolingo English Test scores will allow students to waive
    additional placement exams. Depending on placement results, students are
    either exempt from, or placed into, English course(s). Students with
    English course requirements must make satisfactory progress toward
    completing these requirements while in the program
  * If you opt to submit scores from other standardized assessments, you may
    be required to complete additional language testing upon acceptance into
    our programs

### How to Report Your Score

You must send official score reports to Duke, and they must be received before
the deadline.

It can take several weeks for scores to arrive at schools, so you should plan
to take the test or order prior scores at least one month before the deadline
you seek

#### Duolingo

Report official scores _and subscores_ :

  * "Graduate" program type, _and_
  * “Duke University Graduate Programs: Graduate School; Divinity;
    Engineering; Environment; Public Policy; Duke Kunshan”  
 _— Important notes: There is no institution code. Also, score reports without
subscores will not be accepted. If you are not sure how to include subscores
in your score report, please contact Duolingo English Test support on the
Duolingo English Test website._

#### Other Tests

##### TOEFL

Report scores to **Institution Code 5156** (Duke University). [ _Note: There
is no department code._ ]

##### IELTS

Report scores to "Duke University Pratt School of Engineering."

We receive TOEFL scores from:

  * Educational Testing Service (ETS)
  * Cambridge ESOL
  * British Council
  * IDP: IELTS Australia

### Name Discrepancies

Because we match scores by an applicant's name, the name on your application
and on your test scores must be the same. If it is not, you must contact u

### Waiver of English Language Testing

We offer waivers of English language testing to those applicants who:

  * Are citizens of:
    * Antigua and Barbuda
    * Australia
    * Bahamas
    * Barbados
    * Bermuda
    * Canada
    * Grenada
    * Guyana
    * Ireland
    * Jamaica
    * New Zealand
    * Saint Kitts and Nevis
    * Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
    * Singapore
    * Trinidad and Tobago
    * United Kingdom (UK)

_**OR**_

Have studied full-time for two years or more at a college or university where
the sole language of instruction is English and in a country where English is
the primary spoken language. The two years of study must be completed before
the start of the program

_**OR**_

Have earned an undergraduate degree at Duke Kunshan University (DKU)

_**OR**_

Have worked full-time for a minimum of two years in Australia, Canada, the
United States, or the United Kingdom after receipt of an undergraduate degree

#### By Education or Work

If you believe you qualify for a waiver based on the **education** or **work**
criteria, indicate this in the waiver section of your online application and
then answer the questions about where you completed the study or work
requirement.

#### Important Notice

Due to the volume of applications we receive, we will not examine, confirm the
status of, or grant any waiver requests before extending an offer of
admission. However, if your request is not granted, we will try to notify you
as soon as possible to give you time to take the test. Therefore, it is in
your best interest to apply in the earliest round for each admission cycle.

### English Placement Exams

All international students may be required to take oral and written English
placement exams administered at Duke prior to the start of classes.

**These exams are independent of the score submission requirement.** Depending
on placement results, students are either exempt from, or placed into, English
course(s). Students with English course requirements must make satisfactory
progress toward completing these requirements while in the program.

* * *

## GRE Test Scores

The GRE is optional for the 2023 application cycle

Duke has waived the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) test score requirement
for the 2023 application cycle.

Applicants may still submit GRE scores if they feel the scores enhance their
application, and we will accept results from ETS' GRE at home. However, if you
choose to enter self-reported test scores, official test scores will become a
required application component.

Applicants may provide official GRE (Graduate Record Examination) results. We
do not require a minimum score.

### Important Notes

  * Your scores must not be more than five years old
  * Official score reports must be sent to us directly from Educational
    Testing Service (ETS)
  * **Not accepted** : Personal copies, "attested" copies, or notarized copies
  * Use **Institution Code 5156** and **Department Code 5199** for "any
    department not listed"  
— _If you have chosen a different department code, your scores should still be
available within the database of scores at Duke. You should not need to resend
your scores_

  * Your scores must arrive at our office **before** the application deadline
    **  
** _— ETS can take several weeks to send electronic scores to schools, so you
should plan to take the test or order prior scores at least one month before
the deadline you seek_

  * For further information, please visit gre.org

### Name Discrepancies

Because we match the scores by an applicant's name, the name on your
application and on your test scores must be the same. If it is not, _you must_
contact us.

### Dual-degree candidates

Generally, the Duke Master of Engineering Management requires the GRE for all
applicants. However, an exception is made for dual-degree candidates in
programs at Duke. Please contact us for more information.

* * *

## Information For International Applicants

Unlike many schools, Duke does not require financial support documents as part
of the application process.

Instead, students submit this information after being admitted and decide to
enroll in the program, as Duke does not automatically issue I-20s to students
upon admission. Enrolling students will receive directions from Admissions
after accepting Duke's offer.

* * *

## Information for Non-Engineers

Duke's Master of Engineering Management programs sometimes admits non-
engineers, if they meet course prerequisites and have sufficient background
for the program.

Specifically, we look for the completion of required courses in math and
technical areas:

### Mathematics

  * Calculus I
  * Calculus II
  * Calculus III _or_ Statistics _or_ other Math courses beyond Calculus II

### Technical

  * A minimum of two (2) courses in engineering, computer science,
    mathematical science, or physical science; more are preferred.

* * *

## How to Pay Your Enrollment Deposit

Deposits are due by April 15

When you become an admitted student, you officially reserve your place at Duke
by paying a non-refundable US$600 Enrollment Deposit.

This enrollment deposit is for students who have been accepted into a Master
of Engineering (MEng) or Master of Engineering Management (MEM) program
(online or on-campus) at the Duke Engineering Institute for Enterprise
Engineering.

Click to **Submit Enrollment Deposit »**

_Note: Enrollment deposit and decisions are due by **April 15,** via the
Admitted Students Portal._

##### Important Notes

  * Only credit card payments are accepted
  * For those deferring to another semester, you must pay your deposit first
  * Duke does not accept credit card payments for tuition and fees. For
    details, see the Duke Payment Policy

## Apply

  * Apply to Duke
  * Application Requirements

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Contact Us

Have a question about the program or admissions? Contact the **Admissions &
Recruiting team** at pratt_masters@duke.edu.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

