

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2017

# A Leviathan Lurking in the Foundry

May 26, 2017

Duke's first student Robosub in nearly a decade competes in an international
competition

On a sunny July day, Austin McKee E'17 frantically types out code under a
towel that keeps the glare of the bright San Diego sun off of his laptop
screen. Will Stewart E'18 has just reassembled the aluminum and plastic robot
that McKee now programs in a tent next to a pool larger than a football field.
This is the U.S. Navy's TRANSDEC facility, home of the annual Association for
Unmanned Vehicle Systems International (AUVSI) RoboSub competition. Meanwhile,
Kelsey Evezich E'17 works out the final pieces of a sonar algorithm, while
Sameer Khan E'19 designs and 3D prints some parts that have broken and need
replacing. All in a day's work at RoboSub.

AUVSI RoboSub is a robotics competition in which student-designed robots try
to best complete an underwater obstacle course. These robots take on
underwater obstacles ranging from navigating through a field goal, to opening
a box underwater and dropping a payload inside, to locating an object emitting
ultrasonic pulses. Robots in the competition are fully autonomous— there are
no drivers. Once the competition has begun, the robots must rely on their
sensors and programming to complete the course, with no human input allowed.
The difficulty of implementing the artificial intelligence (AI) required to
complete such an obstacle course and the challenging design constraints of an
underwater vehicle make it one of the foremost college-level technical
challenges in the world.

## Preparations at Pratt

Saturday mornings and Wednesday nights, the Foundry is bustling with budding
roboticists. While the club's lab in the Foundry is almost twice as large as
the lab it was housed in before kicking off RoboSub in 2014, the room is still
packed with people, machines and tools. The hardware teams' work spans the
entirety of the space, and the software teams overflow into the Foundry's
shared work area downstairs. Duke Robotics Club has become an opportunity for
students all across Duke—Pratt, Trinity, ME, ECE, CS and Math—to innovate the
future of unmanned vehicles and AI.

The club is split up into four teams—mechanical, electrical, software and
deployment—each contributing a vital component to the final product. The
mechanical team is responsible for designing and building the robot's chassis:
its frame, waterproof capsules and actuators. At this meeting, Nikhil Ravi
E'20 is designing and simulating parts for a future design with CAD software,
while Trishul Nagellani E'20 files down an aluminum bracket that he has just
finished machining. Over at the electrical team's lab benches, the work is
similarly varied, as the Electronics team is responsible for all sensing,
computation and power delivery systems. Jeremy Morgan E'20 solders resistors
onto a protoype board, carefully inspecting his workmanship after each solder
joint is completed. Neil Dhar E'20 has one of the robot's several cameras
hooked up to an oscilloscope as he analyzes the impact of the robot's
waterproof connectors on the camera's signal.

But while the mechanical and electronics teams seemingly have the biggest role
in the construction of a competition- worthy RoboSub, the less visible
contributions of the Software and Testing teams are what make the RoboSub
really come to life. Ramil Shaymardanov E'20 writes code that will improve the
interface used to check on the robot during testing. Meanwhile, Samadwara
Reddy T'17 sits at a whiteboard deriving the controls algorithm that will be
used to better determine how quickly to run each thruster to achieve a desired
position in the water, as Morton Mo E'19 stands by, ready to help implement
the mathematically-proven result. Raiyan Sobhan E'17 and Mark Chen E'17, leads
of the deployment team, look on, devising methods to collect the data that
will train Reddy's algorithms. Competing in San Diego

## Competing in San Diego

After a year of preparations to get the club ready for the most intense
student-led design process in its history, and then another year in active
development, Leviathan, Duke's first new Robosub in almost a decade, was
completed this past summer. Leviathan was loaded onto a pallet with tools and
shipped off to San Diego, where a group of the most involved robotics club
members had flown out to meet it. With the competition starting in only a few
days, the team set out to test their robot in the actual competition
environment for the first time. After arriving Saturday and spending the next
three days troubleshooting new issues, the semi-final qualification round
loomed closer, with the robot still suffering from debilitating software
problems. Worse, the prolonged software testing was starting to take its toll
on the hardware, causing an electronics fire during a particularly strenuous
underwater test. The team was able to get the robot working just well enough
to qualify, going straight back to work once qualification had bought some
more time. On the second day of the semi-finals, the mood in the Duke Robotics
Club tent at the Navy's TRANSDEC facility was tense. The day before, the first
round of a "best of two" semifinal competition, Leviathan sat motionless in
the water as it was supposed to be competing; due to a glitch, the autonomous
motion planning routine was never activated. With all the pressure on the
second day, Leviathan passed through the field goal, grazing the colored buoy
array, before passing through the channel and surfacing just outside of

After arriving Saturday and spending the next three days troubleshooting new
issues, the semi-final qualification round loomed closer, with the robot still
suffering from debilitating software problems. Worse, the prolonged software
testing was starting to take its toll on the hardware, causing an electronics
fire during a particularly strenuous underwater test. The team was able to get
the robot working just well enough to qualify, going straight back to work
once qualification had bought some more time. On the second day of the semi-
finals, the mood in the Duke Robotics Club tent at the Navy's TRANSDEC
facility was tense. The day before, the first round of a "best of two"
semifinal competition, Leviathan sat motionless in the water as it was
supposed to be competing; due to a glitch, the autonomous motion planning
routine was never activated. With all the pressure on the second day,
Leviathan passed through the field goal, grazing the colored buoy array,
before passing through the channel and surfacing just outside of

On the second day of the semi-finals, the mood in the Duke Robotics Club tent
at the Navy's TRANSDEC facility was tense. The day before, the first round of
a "best of two" semifinal competition, Leviathan sat motionless in the water
as it was supposed to be competing; due to a glitch, the autonomous motion
planning routine was never activated. With all the pressure on the second day,
Leviathan passed through the field goal, grazing the colored buoy array,
before passing through the channel and surfacing just outside of maximum-point
area for finding the ultrasonic pinger. The result? 14th place out of 50
teams, one of the best performances of any rookie team.

Almost a year since Leviathan first entered the water, the team is hard at
work getting ready for RoboSub 2017. "This year, we're ready to earn our spot
in the finals," said former club president Logan Rooper E'17. "We're ready to
meet goals that we set when we restarted the RoboSub project in 2014."

**Will Stewart is a junior studying electrical and computer engineering.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2017

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

