

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2021

# Uplifting, Educating and Listening: It’s Not Over

April 1, 2021 | Joana Sipe

“Engineering While Black” creates a series of important conversations produced
by ESG, NSBE, SWE, and SHPE

2020 has become a year to call for change and unite more than ever before. The
horrifying murders of Ahmaud Arbery, George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and many
other precious lives have amplified the injustices that Black people face
every day—even within our Duke community. The Black Lives Matter movement
developed from those determined to eradicate and oppose the continuous
violence and injustice inflicted upon Black communities. This movement affirms
the talent of Black creativity and innovation and strives for a world where
Black individuals’ contributions to society are equally valued.

In order to raise awareness about racial inequities in STEM, Pratt student
leaders from the Engineering Stu-dent Government (ESG), National Society of
Black Engineers (NSBE), Society of Women Engineers (SWE) and the Society of
Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE) collaborated with the help of the Pratt
administration to develop a program known as “Engineering While Black.” Each
Pratt group sponsored a day within the week of August 24 to host a specific
local charity run by underrepresented groups to give back to the Durham
community. This is especially relevant when, according to an article in the
Indy Week by Sarah Willets, Durham’s community in 2018 was 38% Black and 13%
Hispanic and Latino, which are numbers that are not reflected in Duke
Engineering’s community. On Monday, Duke NSBE sponsored raising funds for
SpiritHouse, whose purpose is to create and develop programs to support the
transformation and empowerment of Black communities impacted by poverty,
racism, criminalization and gender-inequity in North Carolina, centralized in
Durham. On Tuesday, Duke ESG sponsored raising funds for Techies4Tomorrow,
whose goal is to improve the academic preparation of young Black students and
motivate them to succeed in STEM subjects and their future careers. On
Wednesday, Duke SHPE sponsored raising funds for Durham For All, whose aim is
to bring together a multiracial group of organizers and activists that work to
have a government led by people of color and working-class people to
ultimately build a cross-cultural Durham.

> The biggest takeaway from the “Engineering While Black” conversations is
> that racial inequity in STEM is real and this movement is far from being
> over.

There were also four hosted talks via Zoom as part of the “Engineering While
Black” series. On Tuesday, ESG hosted a discussion with representatives from
Durham Colored Library’s Techies4Tomorrow about their organization and ways to
volunteer with them. On Thursday, Duke SWE hosted Ashley Vassel, technical
program manager for Fastly, as she led a conversation on her experiences as a
woman of color in engineering. On Friday, there were two perspective
conversations on identity and inequities in STEM with Pratt faculty and
professional alumni. The first was a faculty panel featuring faculty women of
color including Sophia Santillan, assistant professor of the practice of
mechanical engineering and materials science; Shani B. Daily, associate
professor of the practice of electrical and computer engineering and computer
science; Adrienne Stiff-Roberts, the Jeffrey N. Vinik Professor of Electrical
and Computer Engineering; and Nicki Washington, professor of the practice of
computer science. The second was a professional alumni conversation featuring
Stephanie Gloster E’96, lead data architect for Augusta University Health;
Damian Dolland E’96, CEO of The Darisami Group; and Clifton Ray E’13, senior
scientist at ZenBio.

The biggest takeaway from the “Engineering While Black” conversations is that
racial inequity in STEM is real and this movement is far from being over. It
was not some 2020 fad. It is not over now because Duke Engineering is hiring a
new director of diversity and inclusion or because there are now slightly more
people of color around Duke’s hallways from recruitment. These conversations
in Pratt have made clear that we must work on uplifting, educating and
listening.

We must uplift and support our Black colleagues, communities and the Black
Lives Matter movement. We can support them by donating to these communities
and promoting Black businesses. Most importantly, we must support our Black
classmates and groups in Pratt, our Black faculty, and NSBE.

We must educate ourselves. People tend to turn their heads from the situation
with the excuse that if they do not know something is happening, they do not
have the obligation to help fix it. Do not expect that it is the
responsibility of other POC or your POC colleagues to take their time to
educate you. Look at educational websites and organizations—the Duke Office
for Institutional Equity Resources has a collection of resources—join book and
discussion clubs within your departments or Pratt/Duke organizations, and
attend seminars or conversations hosted throughout the year.

We must listen. We must not speak on behalf of our Black colleagues. We must
listen when they want to talk about their experiences and believe them. We
must listen to experts in their fields studying these matters and strive to
make change happen.

One thing is clear: We cannot continue on the same road in academia and STEM
that we have been following. Real change needs to be made and it is not going
to happen overnight. It needs to come from all angles. It needs to come from
administration hiring more faculty of color and companies having leaders from
POC and women. It needs to come from students respecting and educating
themselves and realizing that any mistakes they have made in the past
regarding discrimination or racial bias will continue to occur. It comes from
us supporting one another and uplifting this movement, because “Engineering
While Black” awareness should not be for just one weekend. It needs to be a
conscious effort that is made every day to make a change.

**_Joana Sipe is an environmental engineer who is a fifth-year PhD student
studying microplastics, nanomaterials and plastic pollution from consumer
products. She is advised by Professor Mark Wiesner._**

## RESOURCES:

Letter penned by a black university student: tinyurl.com/cz3mssye  
How to be an ally: guidetoallyship.com  
Duke Office for Institutional Equity Resources: oie.duke.edu/node/536  
Duke NSBE resources: linktr.ee/wematterdukensbe

## HIGHLIGHTED ORGANIZATIONS IN DURHAM:

SpiritHouse: spirithouse-nc.org  
Techies4Tomorrow: durhamcl.org/stem-learning-tool  
Durham For All: durhamforall.org/about/who-we-are

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2021

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

