

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2021

# Designing the Future of Medical Technologies

April 1, 2021 | Shreyas Hegde

Xiaoyue Ni is pushing her field into the future using smart materials and
wearable devices

Xiaoyue Ni is a new assistant professor in the Pratt School of Engineering who
works between the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering and
Materials Science and the School of Medicine’s Department of Biostatistics and
Bioinformatics. Her highly interdisciplinary research in the areas of
nanomechanics, smart materials, wearable electronics and artificial
intelligence encompasses broad fields targeted toward developing intelligent
products and materials.

Ni began her term at Duke in November 2020 following a three-year tenure as a
postdoctoral researcher at the Querrey Simpson Institute for Bioelectronics at
North-western University. She worked under the advisement of John Rogers, the
Simpson/Querrey Professor at Northwestern, who is known as a pioneer in
flexible electronics. Her work involved developing wearable sensors for human
health monitoring, particularly in human body mechanics, as well as advanced
metastructures for active and intelligent materials.

Ni’s research focuses on two broad areas—smart materials and wearable
technology. While the former is a close amalgamation of her undergraduate and
graduate backgrounds, the latter is an area in which she developed expertise
while working as a postdoc. The aim of her research is to create smart
materials that can sense a human body signal and monitor human activities in
real-time.

“I worked extensively in the area of mechanics of materials during my PhD,
particularly in the area of studying deformation microstructures in natural,
single crystalline materials like copper,” Ni said. “I’m now aiming to use
this knowledge to develop intelligent materials that can have an unparalleled
match in terms of artificial microstructures enabling mechanical capabilities.
It provides innovative methods to simulate the natural or bio counterparts to
perform specific functions.” Ni’s research focuses on developing these
metastructures for smart materials, which she refers to as programmable
matter.

The second area of research involves developing wearable technology, which can
be used in real-time diagnostics and treatment. “Collecting real-time data is
the experimental way to study human body quantitatively,” said Ni, who adds
that this is an area in which doctors and engineers are able to work together
to the maximum.

This technology relies on measuring the mechanical and acoustic signals from
human bodies using a unique, skin-like device and then post-processing the
data using state-of-the-art signal processing and artificial intelligence
techniques to extract the information of interest. One of the major
challenges, Ni says, is the noise in the data, which must be sorted out from
the acoustic signal.

This area of research is highly interdisciplinary and involves a multitude of
both core mechanical and electrical engineering concepts from mechanics,
vibration and acoustics to signal processing to the modern-day niche
technologies of machine learning and artificial intelligence.

Ni concludes by saying that the ultimate goal is to extract the maximum
possible amount of high-quality signals to better monitor human bodies
continuously. The collected information also serves as feedback for both the
development of the next generation of wearable devices and the invention of
novel artificial biomaterials. Their incorporation will provide insights for
realizing a seamless human-material interaction in the future.

Ni’s work is a duet of fundamental materials science combined with concepts
derived from pure science fields, particularly physics.

“I love the interdisciplinary nature of Duke,” said Ni, when asked why she
chose to come to Duke. “The engineering and medical schools being in close
proximity enables doctors to be mentally connected to engineers. This enables
highly efficient cross-collaboration research, which makes Duke unique.”

**_Shreyas Hegde is a PhD student in the Aeroelasticity Lab, advised by
Professor Bob Kielb._**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2021

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

