

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2021

# Remote Engineering During a Pandemic

April 1, 2021 | Simran Sokhi

Pratt students and classes adapt to virtual learning

Sanika Gupte shows me her intricate circuit for her ECE 230 class. She
constructed it at home using a remote engineering lab kit shipped to her at
the start of the semester. With the global changes that have ensued since the
start of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Pratt School of Engineering has had to
adapt and improvise its teaching and learning strategies. Several engineering
classes offered during the Fall 2020 semester were conducted as hybrid
classes, which allowed students to choose from an in-person or on-line option
for lectures and labs. This led to a challenging yet rewarding semester for
all students, but especially those who had to adapt to taking classes entirely
remotely from all around the world.

The implementation of at-home labs by Pratt faculty and lab staff was an
effort to engage remote students as best as possible. In ECE 230, Introduction
to Microelectronic Devices and Circuits, students were provided with lab kits
containing a multimeter, a breadboard, wiring, resistors and other circuit
elements.

“Because of the lab kits, I even had the opportunity to rebuild my circuits
later in the week if I was confused about questions on the lab report,” says
Gupte, a junior majoring in BME and ECE. She also enjoyed the conversations
she had with other students during lab Zoom sessions and is grateful for how
close-knit her lab section is. “It definitely was possible to connect to
others virtually during the semester.”

BME 221, Biomaterials, had one lecture a week that was online and one that was
in-person, with remote students being able to Zoom into class simultaneously.
This lecture style involved significant trial-and-error to figure out the best
means to ensure that remote students were able to engage and ask questions
through means of the Zoom chat or being able to unmute and speak up.

“As we planned for the semester, we didn’t know how bad the pandemic was going
to be on campus, so we approached the course with as much flexibility built
into it as possible,” says Joel Collier, associate professor of BME, who
taught the class. “We wanted to ensure that there were minimal barriers for a
student to switch from the in-person to the virtual format if they needed to,
so all lab materials were packaged into kits at the beginning of the semester.

“The instructors also made many videos and collected data sets on instruments
that did not lend themselves to socially distanced experiments,” Collier
continues. “I also have to stress that conducting the course this way took a
team of devoted instructors: lab instructors Marcus Henderson, Christine
Mulvey, and Maggie Gatongi; and TAs Elizabeth Curvino and Josh Milligan worked
tirelessly to realize this flexible format.”

It was not a hassle-free process for all students, though. Ria Thimmaiahgari,
a junior majoring in BME, never received her lab kit for BME 221, owing to the
currently strict customs regulations in India. The fact that she was nearly
halfway across the world meant that she, along with students in other
countries like Hong Kong, Korea, Singapore and China, had to adapt her daily
schedule to better be able to match EST work hours, which came with its own
set of challenges.

“Taking classes, especially midterms, at 2:00 in the morning was far from
ideal!” says Thimmaiahgari.

In addition, while professors held office hours and discussions on Zoom where
students were able to work together and ask questions, most students agreed
that the experience was just not the same as pre-COVID.

“I’ve always worked on problem sets with people, and we’ve used white boards
and markers to explain things to each other, but that is of course not
possible now!” says Phoebe Dijour, a BME junior. “Teamwork is much harder!”

While some remote Pratt freshmen decided to fulfill other class requirements
in Fall 2020 and take their engineering classes in the spring, others opted to
enroll in EGR 101 (Engineering Design and Communication) and EGR 103
(Computational Methods in Engineering). EGR 101 has a heavy design component
that had to adapt to accommodate remote students. On-campus fresh-men like
Aarzu Gupta enjoyed the intensive hands-on and team-based nature of the class.

“Amidst Zoom calls all day, it was so refreshing to be able to have in-person
interactions and hands-on projects,” says Gupta.

Students taking the class remotely, though, have had a very different
experience. First-year student Nidhi Srivaths said, “EGR 101 was definitely a
challenge, but the professors and TAs really did their best to make sure we
didn’t miss out. It was obviously less hands-on, but we were shipped packages
of prototyping material at the beginning of the semester, so surprisingly my
team made great progress with physical prototyping! Our team consisted of four
people from four different countries. Even scheduling meetings with the
different time zones was initially daunting, but after a few weeks of settling
in, we really found our rhythm.”

Home lab kits certainly cannot replace the experience and excitement of
conducting experiments in labs, and there is no question that seeing faces
over Zoom is far removed from in-person interaction. It is evident that remote
engineering has its fair share of challenges, but the commitment of the
incredible faculty and staff and the relentless hard work of students allowed
the Pratt community to adapt and overcome challenges in a year otherwise
filled with uncertainty.

To summarize her experience this semester, Thimmaiahgari said, “I look forward
to being back on campus next semester, but I think my remote learning
experience will always stay with me!”

**_Simran Sokhi is a junior majoring in biomedical engineering._**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2021

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

