

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2021

# Pratt Student Organizations: Resilience During COVID-19

April 1, 2021 | Woodley Burrow

Despite the pandemic, Pratt student organizations find ways to continue to
provide enriching experiences to its members

Logging into a Zoom meeting is now part of our everyday routine. Instead of
walking to class, we click a few buttons, and then we find ourselves in remote
classes and meetings. This shift to the remote sphere did not happen
effortlessly. Students and professors alike gradually learned how to
administer work and projects from a distance.

Engineering students especially had to adjust to this remote environment.
Typically, projects involve iterating on a physical product, but in the midst
of COVID, meeting in person to jointly work on a project has often been
infeasible or impossible. Through stories from some of the student
organizations in the Pratt School of Engineering, we can see how students have
both struggled and succeeded in transitioning to the remote environment.

Duke Engineers for International Development (DEID) focuses on infrastructure
projects throughout the world. In the summer of 2019, the organization
constructed a footbridge in Bolivia and a vehicular bridge in Uganda. In 2020,
the team was slated to construct another footbridge in Bolivia while also
participating in a water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) project in Indonesia.

However, following the outbreak of COVID-19, implementation trips for the
summer of 2020 were canceled. According to DEID co-President Mia de Leon, a
senior in BME, COVID altered club operations significantly. Canceling the
implementation trips left 25 club members to find new summer plans. While the
cancellation could have resulted in a stagnant summer for DEID, de Leon and
fellow co-President Kieryn Ota, a senior studying biomedical engineering as
well as electrical and computer engineering, decided to take a critical look
at DEID’s operations.

While DEID has been successful in carrying out infrastructure projects, de
Leon and Ota recognized that DEID could achieve more by engaging students on-
campus and by maintaining meaningful relationships with partner communities.
After considerable planning that took place over the summer, DEID managed to
rethink its programming.

DEID successfully hosted multiple speakers, covering topics such as COVID-19,
global infrastructure and project ethics. DEID also continued to have project
meetings for their various projects, preparing students for the scenario in
which travel is feasible by the summer of 2021. By leaning into the
educational component of the projects, DEID has been able to meaningfully
engage its members, even in an unusual semester.

The Duke Motorsports team also endured a drastic change of plans following the
COVID-19 outbreak. The team’s main objective is to compete in the nationwide
Formula SAE (Society of Automotive Engineers) competition, in which teams from
many universities race the vehicles they have been assembling throughout the
year. The 2020 competition, which should have occurred in June, was canceled,
and an on-line presentation event took place instead. Edgar Uribe, senior
mechanical engineering student and leader of Duke Motorsports, described how
the pandemic has restricted the team. In the past, Duke Motorsports members
would spend hours together in the garage, collaboratively resolving design
issues late into the night. But due to COVID-19, Duke Motorsports is only
permitting four students to work together at the same time.

According to Edgar, this reduced amount of people has challenged the team, but
has also allowed for more organized work. This semester has offered Duke
Motorsports a unique opportunity to dive deeper into validating their design.
In remote environments, students are spending more time looking at simulations
and models. As a result, the team has a stronger understanding of the design,
and they feel more confident that they are making correct design decisions.
This opportunity to focus on theory and design is raising the knowledge base
of the team members, and therefore preparing the team for success moving
forward.

Student organizations throughout Pratt have had to handle similar struggles.
Canceled plans, canceled projects and remote work have disrupted everyone.
However, rather than pause organization operations, Pratt students have looked
to improve their projects. These organizations have even innovated by making
project teams accessible to remote students.

Most importantly, Pratt students have taken opportunities to develop parts of
their projects that were undeveloped before. DEID implemented a new speaker
series, Motorsports evaluated their design to a greater degree and the many
other organizations of Pratt have responded in similar ways. The resilience
demonstrated by Pratt organizations reflects the hard work and consideration
provided by student leaders during 2020. These innovative and impressive
efforts have set student organizations up for continued success in 2021.

**_Woodley Burrow is a junior from Houston, Texas studying mechanical
engineering._**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2021

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

