

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2021

# The Wilkinson Building: Reimagining Engineering Education

April 1, 2021 | Ria Thimmaiahgari

When students returned to campus in January 2021, they were welcomed with
150,000 square feet worth of new and exciting opportunities

With the Spring 2021 semester comes a new addition to the Duke community. The
Wilkinson Building, at 150,000 gross square feet, opened for classes for the
first time in January 2021.

With two floors dedicated entirely to active student learning, the teaching
and design laboratories have been specially created to foster student
engagement and hands-on learning. These floors also contain specialized
educational centers focused on innovation & entrepreneurship, along with a
200-seat auditorium and a Learning Commons aimed at enriching the student
experience. The next three floors in the building house “research
neighborhoods” that focus on health innovation, computing and intelligent
systems, and environmental health. Equipped with 35 lab modules, over 170
graduate student workstations and over 50 offices, the research facilities at
Wilkinson pave the way for increasing collaborative opportunities for
researchers across campus.

Jim Ruth, associate dean and director of development for Duke Engineering,
believes that the Wilkinson Building will revolutionize engineering education
at Duke. “I think it is going to be difficult to imagine what Duke Engineering
was like before this building,” he says. “It will transform the student
experience in an extremely meaningful way on multiple levels.”

Ruth details how student learning space for the school has been increased by
50 percent, with teaching spaces designed to be open and flexible, conducive
to a flipped-classroom approach and other non-conventional lecture methods.
“Another great thing about the building is its location,” he explains. Located
at the nexus of Duke Engineering, medicine, and arts and sciences, the
Wilkinson Building will “bring engineering closer to Trinity and to the rest
of the Duke community, while continuing to grey the lines between engineering
and non-engineering,” Ruth says.

The process behind designing the Wilkin-son Building was extensive. An idea
conceived almost 10 years ago, plans for the building continued to take shape
based on the evolving needs of engineering education. Throughout the process,
the student body and faculty were consulted, along with models at other
universities.

“We really tried to look at not the history of engineering, but how we wanted
students to be able to learn and how students told us they wanted to be able
to learn moving forward,” says Ruth.

This led to the creation of not just active-learning classrooms, but active-
learning auditoriums. These are structured to allow students to have enough
space for group discussions and interactions, irrespective of class size. “It
is incredibly rare to have a space where you can fit 200 people but still have
the space for students to comfortably turn around and work in smaller groups,”
adds Ruth.

Another exciting aspect of this building is the unique art collection that it
will showcase. Mitchell Vann, director of facilities for Duke Engineering, was
instrumental in forming a committee dedicated to selecting artwork for the
building.

“There is a real focus on all kinds of art, in fact, the building hosts the
first hologram on campus,” says Ruth.

The vision behind creating these spaces was to defy the notions of a
stereotypical engineering classroom and to construct a more holistic
environment, where the definition of an engineer can become more fluid. “The
idea is to have a place that encourages engineers to focus just as much on
art, ethics or culture, as they do on the technical side of things,” says
Ruth.

As students gear up to take on new courses and challenges, the Wilkinson
Building will undoubtedly play a vital role in reshaping the student learning
experience at Duke. For engineers and non-engineers alike, an exciting
experience awaits.

**_Ria Thimmaiahgari is a junior majoring in biomedical engineering and
computer science._**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2021

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

