

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Industry Relations
  * Leadership
  * News
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
    * The Duke Difference
    * Career Services
    * Graduate Outcomes
    * What Tech Leaders Are Saying
  * Degree
  * Certificate
  * Courses
  * Faculty
  * Apply

__

# The Duke Difference: AI and Machine Learning

## Why join Duke AIPI?

Duke's Master of Engineering in AI for Product Innovation develops technical
leaders who are equipped to build our future through AI and Machine Learning.
Students build strong technical skills together with an understanding of how
to design and build software products, positioning them to build new AI
products and systems that solve the challenging problems our world faces.

Our unique program differentiates itself through:

  * A **strong focus on applied machine learning and MLOps** to solve real-
    world problems
  * An **experiential model of education** where students learn by doing,
    building a portfolio of personal and team projects to show potential
    employers
  * A **heavy emphasis on industry collaboration** , with students engaging
    with industry leaders during their capstone projects, industry seminars,
    and internships
  * A **small, intimate cohort** and emphasis on small class sizes and close
    interaction between students and our leading faculty

## We welcome Diverse participants

The Duke AIPI program is designed for engineers and scientists from a range of
technical and scientific backgrounds. Students come from all regions of the
world and a variety of technical and scientific backgrounds. Roughly half of
our students join directly after their undergraduate students and the other
half join after a few years of work experience. Many students come with strong
prior background in programming or software development while others come with
lesser programming experience but stronger domain-specific expertise - the
unique design of our program can accomodate both types of participants.

Browse student profiles:

  * Eduardo Martinez, Class of 2022
  * Shyamal Anadkat, Class of 2022
  * Christine Park & Miranda Morris, Barr-Spach Scholarship Recipients, Class
    of 2022

## An interdisciplinary experience

At Duke Engineering, technical training is combined with management courses,
industry seminars, a real-world capstone project and an industry internship to
provide a well-rounded educational experience that develops both the hard
skills and soft skills needed to succeed.

Explore the curriculum »

## A Flexible Degree Designed for You

On-campus or online

Duke has you covered: Study on-campus or online. Start with the summer pre-
program online data science and programming boot camp. Finish in as little as
12 months of studying full-time through the accelerated course schedule, or
stay for a third semester and focus on industry-oriented electives.

Browse course descriptions »

## options to choose from

Select a track and associated elective course options which align with your
career aspirations or create your own.

The **ML Engineering Track** prepares students for careers as AI engineers or
machine learning engineers across a range of industries, building scalable,
production-ready AI models and machine learning-based software products.

The **Data Science Track** prepares students for careers as data scientists
analyzing and modeling data across a range of fields to solve challenging
problems using data-driven approaches.

## Partnered with Industry

Duke's AIPI curriculum was created from scratch and designed with heavy input
from AI leaders across industries.

Our faculty come with experience at the top of the tech industry and in
successful startups prior to joining Duke.

We work closely with industry partners who provide real-world examples for
your Capstone Project experience, including some of the leading large
techology, healthcare IT, and retail companies.

Meet our faculty »

## Great Graduate Outcomes

Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering is a vibrant teaching and research school
set in one of the world's leading universities. Our graduates are a global
alumni network of leaders spanning multinational companies, small businesses,
and high-growth startups.

Duke AIPI students go into some of the most in-demand and exciting job roles
available, such as ML Engineers, AI Engineers, and Data Scientists. Our
students join companies across a variety of industries who are leading the way
in applying AI/ML to their businesses.

Learn about outcomes »

## Duke: A leader in creating educational programs in emerging fields

The Duke AI for Product Innovation Master of Engineering program is a part of
Duke Engineering's **Institute for Enterprise Engineering** , which provides
high-impact professional education to meet fast-evolving industry needs. These
programs draw on Duke Engineering’s research and educational strengths in:

    * Computing Fundamentals
    * AI and Machine Learning
    * Cybersecurity
    * FinTech, including Blockchain
    * Engineering Management

Learning opportunities are offered online and on-campus and include degree
programs, graduate certificates, online credentials and short courses.

We give working professionals and industry partners powerful tools to improve
organizational performance and accelerate product innovation.

More about Duke Engineering's Institute for Enterprise Engineering »

## Why Duke?

  * The Duke Difference
  * Career Services
  * Graduate Outcomes
  * What Tech Leaders Are Saying

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Admissions

Have a question about the program or admissions? Contact the **Admissions &
Recruiting team** at pratt_masters@duke.edu.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
      *  __The Duke Difference
      *  __Career Services
      *  __Graduate Outcomes
      *  __What Tech Leaders Are Saying
    *  __Degree
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Courses
    *  __Faculty
    *  __Apply
  * __Quick Links
    * __Industry Relations
    *  __Leadership
    *  __News
    *  __Contact

    * 

