

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2022

# George Truskey: 2020 Distinguished Service Award

February 17, 2022

George Truskey has been at Duke for nearly three and a half decades serving in
a wide variety of roles

George Truskey has been at Duke for nearly three and a half decades serving in
a wide variety of roles. He has taught a number of courses and conducted
research on bioengineering tissues in the cardiovascular system and disease in
human microphysiological systems. In the biomedical engineering department
(BME), he was the director of undergraduate studies for several years, before
being appointed department chair for eight and a half years. Truskey was then
in the dean’s office as a senior associate dean, first for research and then
as overall senior associate dean. And as if those weren’t enough hats to wear,
he has been an associate vice president for research since December 2020.

Truskey’s love of biomedical engineering began when he was an undergraduate at
the University of Pennsylvania studying bioengineering in the late 1970s, well
before it became the popular topic it is today. His first taste of research
came as part of a work-study program, where he had a great mentor who helped
make the job much more than just a job. The love of the project helped make
Truskey interested in research, which pushed him into graduate school and,
eventually, the decision to stay within academia.

Two years after earning his doctorate degree in chemical engineering from the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1985, Truskey joined the faculty at
Duke, where he has stayed ever since. There’s several reasons for his
longevity at the school, including many fulfilling projects, continuing to
conduct impactful research and the ability to help mold the next generation of
researchers.

“One thing that keeps me at Duke are the students and my faculty colleagues,”
Truskey said. “Because even though Duke isn’t very large, it’s a pretty
collaborative place.”

During his many years at Duke, one of Truskey’s more memorable collaborations
involved renovating the Gross Hall basement into the Foundry. Opened in 2015,
the formerly forlorn basement now features 7,600 feet of project space for
Duke student teams, faculty and staff focused on engineering, energy,
entrepreneurship and sustainability to build ideas from the ground up. The
modular and flexible workspace enriches the student experience by providing
dedicated design and project space for class, co-curricular and
entrepreneurial activities.

While serving as BME’s department chair, Truskey recalls helping Duke receive
an endowment from the Coulter Foundation to support translational research by
BME faculty. In his own research, Truskey has dealt with cardiovascular
disease, and a number of years ago, he thought about creating a model in the
lab to simulate the disease. While that is an idea that has ebbed and flowed
over the years, he is well known in the field for his theories as to how cells
adhere to materials and the experiments that prove them.

“If you stick with an idea long enough,” Truskey says, “the techniques you
develop over time can come to accomplish it.”

As a professor, Truskey enjoys working with undergraduate and graduate
students in the lab and the classroom. One of his students who had gone on to
medical school, he recalled, recently came back to him. “She said that she
really appreciated my course now,” Truskey said. “It was tough at the time,
but she found it very beneficial in medical school.”

Outside of the classroom, Truskey has many fond memories of spending time on
the main Quad several times after Duke won national championships to see the
bonfires. After losing in the championship in 1999, Truskey remembers he was
able to take his son to the celebrations after Duke won just two years later.

“That really shows the spirit of Duke and how everyone pulls together to enjoy
a great victory,” Truskey said.

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2022

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

