

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2022

# Merging Policy and Technology for a Resilient Water System

April 1, 2022 | By Hanna Varga

New CEE faculty member Andrew Jones III is pursuing ways to remove tough
biofilms and bring water equity to communities

After receiving his PhD, MS and BS in mechanical engineering and a BS in
mathematics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Andrew Jones III
held an assistant professorship in chemical engineering at Northeastern
University for two years. In July 2021, Jones returned to his home state of
North Carolina to join the faculty of civil and environmental engineering at
Duke University.

Jones’s original interest in mathematical models of fluid dynamics quickly
turned to engineering once he discovered his love for experimentation. In
graduate school, he was introduced to the idea of microbial fuel cells (MFCs),
specifically with bacteria found in wastewater. Fuel cells produce carbon-
neutral electricity, and MFCs do so with the aid of living microbes.

A passion for the environment was embedded in Jones at an early age, hence the
conversion of wastewater to electricity was immediately appealing. However, he
quickly discovered that wastewater bacteria did not thrive in the extreme
conditions found in fuel cells, such as low pH or high conductivity. Slowly,
he began shifting his focus to another waste-water-related, but widely
applicable problem—bacterial biofilms.

Some bacteria form sticky colonies that readily grow on a variety of surfaces,
for example, aquarium walls, or even inside the human body. When the biofilm
adheres to water storage tanks, pipes or other parts of the water
infrastructure, it poses a threat to the drinking water supply. This interest
ultimately branched into multiple directions, spanning from policy analysis
for increased access to clean drinking water to new product design for water
quality monitoring.

In all of the above, Jones seeks to understand biofilm interactions with
different materials in natural, estuary environments, the human body, plumbing
and engineered biomaterials. He is also interested in developing products for
a more accessible water smart grid to facilitate distributed water generation
and safe storage.

The wide relevance of biofilms led to a five-year, $1.9 million grant from the
National Institute of General Medical Sciences to develop new tools to study
biofilms. These efforts have produced multiple joint projects, both within the
department of civil and environmental engineering and the wider university.

Together with the laboratory of CEE Professor Heileen Hsu-Kim’s, they look at
developing new, synthetic biofilms that can remove rare earth elements from
acid mine drainage or waste streams. He also collaborates with the labs of CEE
professors Claudia Gunsch and Mike Bergin to study bio-films in built
environments, such as walls or other surfaces where people do not think
biofilms exist.

Drawing upon his initial training as a mathematician, Jones also works with
several groups from the mathematics department to model fundamental biofilm
behavior. Ever a Tar Heel at heart, he is also committed to help North
Carolinians benefit from his work, with a particular goal to make access to
clean water more equitable, affordable, flexible and resilient.

His team is currently addressing stakeholders’ concerns around tools for water
testing, aiming to eventually place heavy metal detectors in people’s homes.
Based on a provisional patent developed during seed funding from the Sloan
Scholars Mentoring Network, he is already making plans for bringing technology
to people. “Our next grant is going to be part testing and verifying the
detector reliably provides better and more data and part determining if people
use it to make their lives better,” Jones explained.

His policy research is also tied to the equitable distribution of clean water,
following Elinor Ostrom’s two frameworks for studying complex governance
systems. One is the institutional analysis and development framework, used to
determine whether a system is stable or unstable. The other is the social-
ecological system framework, which provides a quantitative tool for analyzing
resource management.

Jones is hopeful when it comes to plans to implement a smart water grid in
North Carolina. “When it comes to emergency management, electrical systems and
smart grids, people talk about building resilient, flexible, self-healing
infrastructure,” Jones said. “I wonder if we can do the same thing for water,
because as soon as a storm or hurricane passes through, one of the things you
immediately need is clean drinking water. Many people can live without
electricity, but no one can live without water. The goal would be to design a
system and a policy framework to ease the implementation of a reliable, self-
healing water system.”

Apart from research, Jones is enthusiastic about teaching an undergraduate
fluid dynamics course in the spring, this time from an environmental
perspective. As an educator, he tries to emphasize the applicability of
classroom topics to real-life scenarios. And sometimes student work ends up
having a big impact.

“I replaced exams with projects in my undergraduate classes,” Jones said. “My
research on biofilm in blood vessels was actually inspired by a former
student’s paper on helical flow in arteriosclerosis. It made me realize that
if helical flow can wash away plaques, it can probably wash away biofilm.”
Jones will also teach the graduate-level Environmental Transport Phenomena at
alternate years, and possibly teach a third class at the intersection of
environmental microbiology and ethics.

The decision to join CEE stemmed from a long line of connections and
interactions with faculty members and students. Another factor was his
increasing focus on environmental problems. During his postdoctoral position,
Jones became interested in nanomaterials and discovered papers published by
the Center for the Environmental Implications of Nanomaterials (CEINT),
directed by CEE Professor Mark Wiesner. The possibility of working with CEINT,
the collaborative environment and the close connection of the CEE department
to the Nicholas School of the Environment helped cement the commitment.

Outside of academia, Jones enjoys running and cooking, although his life
currently revolves around his 20-month-old son. Interestingly, Jones himself
spent much of his early years running around Duke, where his father was
attending graduate school; the tradition seems to continue as he often brings
his own son to play on campus.

**Hanna Varga is a fourth-year environmental engineering PhD candidate advised
by Professor Mark Wiesner.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2022

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

