

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2022

# Nick Naclerio: 2022 Distinguished Alumni Award

February 17, 2022

Nicholas Naclerio develops and commercializes innovative technologies in
semiconductors, genomics and health care

When Nick Naclerio (E’83) first stepped onto Duke’s campus as a high school
senior looking to study engineering in 1979, he ran into a bit of a problem;
the official tour didn’t cover the engineering school. After asking the tour
guide how to find it, Naclerio was directed down an unpaved path next to the
Duke Chapel that led down to the lonesome Hudson Hall.

At first glance, he wasn’t very impressed. Other schools that actually had
engineering on the tour featured rooms filled with fancy, futuristic looking
gear and laboratory equipment. The windows he found himself looking through in
Hudson were no match.

But then a young secretary new to the job stepped in and asked Naclerio what
he was looking for. After explaining his situation, she guided him back to
Marion Shepard, dean of undergraduate affairs at the time, who gave Naclerio a
pitch that resonated with him.

“Dean Shepard put me at ease and told me that there were three reasons to
consider coming to Duke as an undergraduate, rather than one of those big-name
engineering schools with more extensive research facilities,” Naclerio said.

Dean Shepard explained that Duke professors pride themselves on their
teaching, not just their publishing, and that half of the classes he’d take
would be outside of engineering, where Duke had world-class professors in
every department. He also explained that college is about more than classroom
learning, and being immersed in a liberal arts university would teach him to
communicate with non-engineers—a skill valuable to business leaders. And if
Naclerio decided to go to one of those schools with all the fancy equipment
after graduating, he could rest assured that his academic foundation would be
solid.

“And everything he said turned out to be true,” Naclerio said.

During his time on campus, Naclerio received the full benefit of an
engineering school nestled within a liberal arts college. He remembers Dean
Shepard had his E83 Materials course visit a nearby cigarette factory, find a
discarded metal part and analyze why it failed, and he enjoyed taking classes
in philosophy, religion and political science. Naclerio also took a class on
astronomy and astrophysics, which turned out to be useful when he ended up
developing a quantum detector for a radio telescope and meeting Stephen
Hawking during a year of graduate studies at Cambridge University.

After his well-rounded undergraduate education, Naclerio became an officer
working in a lab of the United States Air Force—an experience that he says
proved to be a great leadership opportunity that helped him transition from
bench science to the boardroom. He also went to some of those schools with the
bigger and fancier equipment. He earned a master’s degree in materials science
from the University of Cambridge, where he was a Winston Churchill Scholar,
and a PhD in electrical engineering from the University of Maryland.

Naclerio then spent seven years with the Defense Advanced Research Projects
Agency (DARPA), where he was an assistant director in the electronics
technology office. During his time there, he worked as a manager for a unique
public/private partnership called SEMATECH. A half-billion dollar partnership
between the Federal government and 14 American semiconductor manufacturers,
the project helped solve common problems and regain competitiveness for the
U.S. companies, which had been surpassed by Japan. His work with SEMATECH
earned Naclerio an Arthur S. Flemming Award, which honors outstanding federal
employees from all areas of federal service.

After DARPA, Naclerio joined Motorola and became interested in a growing
endeavor called the Human Genome Project. After starting Motorola Life
Sciences to build better tools for performing genomics research, he left the
company when their cellphone business began to falter and began working with a
series of genomic-tool startup companies—including a then-fledgling company
called Illumina.

“The highlight of my career was being part of the leadership team at Illumina
as we built one of the most important life science tools companies in
history,” Naclerio said. “Our work has enabled numerous breakthroughs in
clinical diagnostics and pharmaceutical development.” For example, Illumina’s
technology has enabled new paradigms such as non-invasive prenatal testing,
blood-based pan-cancer screening and consumer genetic testing.

In 2016, Naclerio formed Illumina Ventures to focus full-time on building
companies to take advantage of the advances in genomics made possible by
Illumina. To date, the program has invested over $500 million into more than
two dozen pioneering companies. And they’re not only focused on human
genomics.

“I think that the next application of genomics is going to be in fighting
climate change,” Naclerio said. “Especially by adapting our agriculture and
food processing to be more efficient and produce less greenhouse gas.”

When asked what advice Naclerio has for current students, he says, “Take full
advantage of what Duke has to offer. It is a unique place with so many
opportunities inside and outside the classroom.” For graduates, he says, “Stay
open to new ideas and changes in career direction. From the Air Force to DARPA
to a semiconductor company to biotech start-ups to venture capital industry,
the most interesting and lucrative experiences in my career could not have
been planned for.”

More than three decades after graduation, Naclerio found himself back on
campus in much the same situation as the first time he arrived, but this time
with his three children. While he was a regular for returning to Duke for
reunions to keep up the life-long friendships he forged while he was a
student, he became even more involved when two of his children decided to
attend school in Durham. His son, Nicholas, was a Pratt undergraduate from
2013-2017, while his daughter, Maria, just graduated from Trinity College in
2020.

Naclerio has witnessed much of the growth that Duke Engineering has
experienced over the past several decades. The engineering school has, he
says, grown to be very much a part of west campus, while its undergraduate
programs are now nationally recognized and its graduate research programs have
grown exponentially. And he can even spot plenty of fancy machines through the
windows in all of the new buildings.

After his son’s first tour of the engineering school, the father and son duo
sat in a modern auditorium and listened to Connie Simmons, the longtime and
beloved associate dean for undergraduate affairs, describe the many programs
now offered at Duke Engineering. Afterward, Naclerio recalls, they met Dean
Simmons in her office, where she gave much the same pitch that he had heard
from Dean Shepard three decades earlier about what makes Pratt so special.

“We ended up telling stories about my days back at Duke,” Naclerio said. “And
as it turned out, Dean Simmons was the same young secretary who found me
wandering Hudson Hall when I was just 17!”

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2022

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

