

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# 2017 Photonics Symposium Explores Light-Based Technologies for Human Health

March 27, 2017 | By Michaela Kane

Annual symposium draws 200 researchers to discuss the latest advances in
biophotonics research

Nearly 200 researchers from across Duke’s campus and beyond came together on
March 13 and 14 to discuss the latest advances in biophotonics research at the
2017 Fitzpatrick Institute for Photonics (FIP) symposium. With a theme of
“Biophotonics for the Medicine of the Future,” the two-day event highlighted
how light-based technologies are advancing our understanding of biological
systems and changing the way we diagnose and treat diseases from cancer to
infectious diseases.

This was FIP’s annual symposium, and reflected the institute’s continued
growth since its founding. “Duke now has over 133 faculty members in the
institute with work extending across 39 departments, and every year the FIP
symposium includes more faculty and becomes more impressive,” said Provost
Sally Kornbluth during her opening address. “This is a welcoming community and
it’s exciting that more and more people want to be a part of it.”

Pratt School of Engineering Dean Ravi Bellamkonda and Dr. Nancy Andrews, dean
at the Duke University School of Medicine, also welcomed the participants,
noting in particular the strength of collaborative research that has been
fostered through FIP. “Thanks to the Fitzpatrick Institute’s success in
leveraging faculty expertise across Pratt, Trinity College of Arts & Sciences
and the School of Medicine, Duke is today one of the foremost leaders in
biophotonics research in the world,” said Bellamkonda. “The institute is truly
one of our signature strengths.”

Before the presentations began, Tuan Vo-Dinh, director of the Fitzpatrick
Institute for Photonics, introduced special guest Michael Fitzpatrick T’70,
whose generous gifts to Duke through the Fitzpatrick Foundation established
the FIP and led to the naming of the Fitzpatrick Center for Interdisciplinary
Engineering, Medicine and Applied Sciences (FCIEMAS). “When we launched the
institute we had a dream that photonics would become one of the most
influential technologies around, especially in medicine, and I feel privileged
to be able to come here and recognize that as a reality,” Fitzpatrick said.
“The power of light is amazing, and although we’ve just scratched the surface
we’re off in some good directions.”

The symposium featured a keynote address by Eric Betzig, the 2014 Nobel
Laureate in Chemistry, who also received the 2017 FIP Pioneer Award in
recognition of his groundbreaking work imaging life at high spatiotemporal
resolution. The plenary lecture was given by Chad Mirkin, director of
Northwestern University’s International Institute for Nanotechnology, while
Paul French of Imperial College London, Mingjun Zhang of Ohio University and
Daniel Herr of UNC-Greensboro delivered invited talks.

More than 20 Duke faculty from across campus also presented on a range of
topics, including innovations for cervical cancer treatment, photo-
immunotherapy for treating metastatic and recurrent tumors, new optics-based
methods for eye exams and surgery, and the use of immersive virtual reality to
mimic real-world tasks. Underscoring the importance of collaboration, the
symposium also included a session co-sponsored by the MEDx program, which
focused on emerging biophotonics projects between engineering and medicine.

“A decade ago the creation of the FIP was a cornerstone of the photonics
initiative at Duke,” said Vo-Dinh. “The FIP symposium is a unique opportunity
to showcase the outstanding interdisciplinary research of the faculty across
the Duke campus in cutting-edge areas integrating science, engineering and
medicine around the scientific discipline based on photonics, the science
involving interactions of light and matter.

“This collaborative and cross-disciplinary effort is one of the exceptional
features that makes Duke an excellent place for photonics research.”

Watch videos of the talks at Panopto and learn more at fitzpatrick.duke.edu.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

