

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Materials Research Society Announces First Innovators for 2017 iMatSci
Innovator Showcase

August 15, 2017

Two materials-based startups based on technology developed at Duke University
were selected to demonstrate their products at the iMatSci Innovator Showcase

_From the Materials Research Society_

The Materials Research Society (MRS) has selected the first two materials-
based startups— **Multi3D LLC** and **Fetch Automotive Design Group LLC** ,
both out of Duke University—to demonstrate their new technologies at the
iMatSci Innovator Showcase, held November 27-28 during the 2017 MRS Fall
Meeting in Boston. The iMatSci (Innovation in Material Science) Innovator
Showcase offers early-stage startups a unique opportunity to meet and interact
with industry and R&D leaders and early-stage investors, to spur collaboration
and accelerate the adoption of new materials technologies for real-world
applications. All early-stage materials startups are encouraged to apply;
applications will be accepted through September 1, 2017.

**About Multi3D LLC and the Electrifi Conductive Filament**

The global Radio Frequency (RF) components market is expected to reach $17.54
billion by 2022, but fabrication techniques for commercial RF components have
seen little innovation. Conventional RF manufacturing techniques, such as
machining and photolithography, are accurate and reliable, but they are also
expensive, time-consuming and produce unnecessary waste.

Multi3D LLC is a Duke University spin-out that offers highly conductive 3D
printing filament for rapid prototyping and manufacturing of electronic and
radio frequency components. Most recently, the company has created a new
product called Electrifi Conductive Filament that is 100 times more conductive
than the most conductive filament available on the market today. Their product
will accelerate research in the United States by significantly reducing cost,
weight and turnaround time. By creating customized components to fit the
design space at hand, Electrifi Conductive Filament also eliminates the need
to design technologies around commercially available parts.

**About Fetch Automotive Design Group LLC and the Carbon Nanotube Tire Wear
Sensor**

Automobiles are becoming increasingly smarter, with significant attention on
sensors that ubiquitously monitor the cars’ environment and overall condition.
However, one component that lacks data is the only part of the car that
contacts the road—the tire. While most vehicles do allow for the measurement
and communication of real-time tire pressure data, it has never been possible
to monitor tire tread wear in real time.

Electrical engineers at Duke University have developed an economically priced,
printed carbon nanotube device that they call Tire Wear Sensor, which can
provide real-time, noninvasive material thickness measurements that allow for
the mapping of tire tread from the inside of tire itself. The sensor relies on
a simple mechanism, in which cross-capacitance between two metal electrodes is
monitored. As the material thickness above the sensor is changed, the
electrical response between the two electrodes modulates accordingly. The
simple design of the sensor (2mm-scale conducting square electrodes) allows
for a variety of manufacturing methods and materials which has the potential
to add value to the new smart-car space, military vehicles and even race cars.

**About the iMatSci Innovator Showcase**

Launched at the 2014 MRS Fall Meeting, the iMatSci Innovator Showcase provides
a platform for technology leaders at universities, research labs and startup
companies to demonstrate the practical applications of their innovative,
materials-based technologies. The goal of this program is to convene
innovators, industry leaders and investors in one location to spur
collaboration that accelerates the adoption of new materials technologies for
real-world applications.

iMatSci is designed to showcase technologies that have not yet been
commercialized, but where there is a working prototype or evidence of a
repeatable process. The entities behind these innovations are generally early
stage and pre-revenue, however, iMatSci also displays innovative technologies
that are emerging from an existing corporate entity.

**About the Materials Research Society**

MRS is an international organization of almost 14,000 materials researchers
from academia, industry and government, and a recognized leader in promoting
the advancement of interdisciplinary materials research and technology to
improve the quality of life. MRS members are engaged and enthusiastic
professionals hailing from physics, chemistry, biology, mathematics and
engineering—the full spectrum of materials research. Headquartered in
Warrendale, Pennsylvania (USA), MRS membership now spans over 90 countries,
with more than 48 percent of members residing outside the United States. In
addition to its communications and publications portfolio, MRS organizes high-
quality scientific meetings, attracting over 13,000 attendees annually and
facilitating interactions among a wide range of experts from the cutting edge
of the global materials community. MRS is also a recognized leader in
education outreach and advocacy for scientific research. More information
about the Materials Research Society can be found on its website, mrs.org.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

