

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# SENSOR Saturday Academy Floats the Eno River

May 4, 2017

Outreach program to Durham Public Schools encourages thinking like an engineer

There was some disappointment when the 3D printed boats designed to carry
sensors into the Eno River didn’t float. But as any engineer will tell you,
failure is just another teachable moment and an exercise in learning what
doesn’t work.

That was only one of the many lessons learned by 20 8th and 9th graders from
Durham Public Schools who took part in this year’s Student Engineers Network,
Strengthening Opportunities in Research (SENSOR) Saturday Academy. Hosted for
the third year running by Duke Engineering, the program teaches students about
the engineering design process through learning about water quality
measurement, with the ultimate goal of getting kids more interested in the
STEM disciplines.

In their first year in the program, 8th graders learn about different types of
sensors that are used to measure water quality, which coincides with their
8th-grade curriculum. The same students then return as 9th graders to design
their own project—this year they built 3D printers and used them to construct
boats to carry sensors onto a body of water.

The program begins in September and runs through the end of the school year,
meeting every two or three weeks. In the final weekend of April, the SENSOR
Saturday Academy concluded with a field trip to the Eno River. While the 8th
graders used the skills they’d acquired to determine if the Eno River is safe
to swim in, the older students tested out the seaworthiness of their boats.

“One group of students concluded the river was not safe to swim in because it
had too many bugs, even though the tests came back fine,” said Adrienne Stiff-
Roberts, associate professor of electrical and computer engineering and
director of the program. “And one of the boats failed because the sensor it
was designed to carry kept tipping it over. But at the end of the day, the
students talked it over and figured out how to do it better next time.”

This was the third consecutive year that the SENSOR Saturday Academy was
supported by the Burroughs Wellcome Fund. As the program grows and gains
steam, support will come from Duke University beginning next year.

Anyone interested in joining the program or volunteering can find more
information at stiffrobertslab.pratt.duke.edu/sensor-saturday-academy

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

