

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Innovators Represent Duke at ACCelerate Festival

April 24, 2019

Blue Devil Ocean Engineering shows off its finalist entry in this year's Shell
Ocean Discovery XPRIZE at the Smithsonian's National Museum of American
History

_From Innovation & Entrepreneurship at Duke_

At the second annual ACCelerate Creativity and Innovation Festival, teams from
schools belonging to the Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC) traveled to the
Smithsonian’s National Museum of American History to showcase their work for
crowds totaling 61,369. Among the 400+ innovators representing the 15 ACC
institutions were two teams from Duke.

Blue Devil Ocean Engineering, a group of undergraduate and graduate students
working to develop a solution to map the ocean floor, is a finalist in this
year’s Shell Ocean Discovery XPRIZE. The group was led by Associate Professor
Martin Anthony Brooke and Assistant Professor Tyler Bletsch of the Department
of Electrical and Computer Engineering.

Duke eNable, a student-run organization based out of the Innovation Co-Lab,
connects amputees in the Durham area with 3D-printed adaptive devices, free of
cost—like the custom Spiderman web shooter arm they built for a four-year-
old’s Halloween costume.

In the vibrant festival atmosphere teeming with bustling crowds and live
performances, teams were able to discuss and engage with guests and other
university groups about artistic and scientific projects.

A pre-festival reception also allowed teams to network and discuss each
other’s projects without the distraction of busy museum crowds. Projects
spanned disciplines, aiming to solve diverse problems: Syracuse University’s
Artic LiDAR team traveled to Russia to map an inaccessible Arctic region to
capture the environmental impact of melting ice caps; Whiskey Webs, from the
University of Louisville, uses whiskey’s fluid properties to create elaborate
web “fingerprints” for American whiskey in hopes of creating a check system to
combat counterfeit batches.

Crowds visiting Duke’s exhibits learned more about projects and engineering at
Duke, looking at the Blue Devil Ocean Engineering team’s large heavy lift
drone and deep ocean SONAR pod and participating in demonstrations with the
eNable team.

The Duke teams were enthusiastic to share their work with the large crowds.
“We thought this would be an incredible opportunity to display rapidly growing
technology for social good, hopefully inspiring some of the visitors as well,”
said Iris Chang of eNable. “[Young visitors] are growing up in a society where
3D printing is becoming accessible and universal. Showing them what 3D
printing can do will hopefully inspire them to use this technology to make
change as well.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

