

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

March 20, 2023 | By Ken Kingery

Stitching videos from dozens of cameras together provides unique 3D view of
macroscopic experiments with microscopic detail

When a couple of plucky graduate students took the first picture with their
pieced-together microscope, it turned out better than they’d hoped. Sure,
there was a hole in one section and another was upside down — but they could
still find Waldo.

By the following day, the duo sorted out their software issues and
demonstrated a successful proof-of-principle device on the classic children’s
puzzle book. By combining 24 smartphone cameras into a single platform and
stitching their images together, they created a single camera capable of
taking gigapixel images over an area about the size of a piece of paper.

Six years, several design iterations and one startup company later, the
researchers made an unexpected discovery. Perfecting the process of stitching
together dozens of individual cameras with subpixel resolution simultaneously
allowed them to see the height of objects too.

> "When our colleagues studying zebrafish used it for the first time, they
> were blown away. It immediately revealed new behaviors involving pitch and
> depth that they’d never seen before.”
>
> roarke horstmeyer

“It’s like human vision,” said Roarke Horstmeyer, assistant professor of
biomedical engineering at Duke University. “If you merge multiple viewpoints
together (as your two eyes do), you see objects from different angles, which
gives you height. When our colleagues studying zebrafish used it for the first
time, they were blown away. It immediately revealed new behaviors involving
pitch and depth that they’d never seen before.”

In a paper published online March 20 in Nature Photonics, Horstmeyer and his
colleagues show off the capabilities of their new high-speed, 3D, gigapixel
microscope called a Multi Camera Array Microscope (MCAM). Whether recording 3D
movies of the behavior of dozens of freely swimming zebrafish or the grooming
activity of fruit flies at near cellular-level detail across a very wide field
of view, the device is opening new possibilities to researchers the world
over. The latest version of MCAM relies on 54 lenses with higher speed and
resolution than the prototype that found Waldo. Building upon recent work
completed in close collaboration with Dr. Eva Naumann’s lab at Duke,
innovative software gives the microscope the ability to take 3D measurements,
provide more detail at smaller scales and make smoother movies.

The highly parallelized design of the MCAM, however, creates its own data
processing challenges, as a few minutes’ worth of recording can produce over a
terabyte of data. “We’ve developed new algorithms that can efficiently handle
these extremely large video datasets,” said Kevin C. Zhou, a postdoctoral
researcher in Horstmeyer’s lab and lead author of the paper. “Our algorithms
marry physics with machine learning to fuse the video streams from all the
cameras and recover 3D behavioral information across space and time. We’ve
made our code open source on Github for everyone to try out.”

At the University of California – San Francisco, Matthew McCarroll watches the
behavior of zebrafish exposed to neuroactive drugs. By looking for changes in
behavior due to different classes of drugs, researchers can discover new
potential treatments or better understand existing ones.

> “We’ve long been building our own rigs with single lenses and cameras, which
> have worked well for our purposes, but this is on a whole other level. We’re
> just biologists tinkering with optics. It’s incredible to see what a legit
> physicist can come up with to make our experiments better.”
>
> matthew mccarroll

In the paper, McCarroll and his group describe interesting movements they’d
never seen before thanks to using this camera. The 3D capabilities of the
MCAM, coupled with its all-encompassing view, allowed them to record
differences in the fish’s pitch, whether they trended toward the top or bottom
of their tanks and how they tracked prey.

“We’ve long been building our own rigs with single lenses and cameras, which
have worked well for our purposes, but this is on a whole other level,” said
McCarroll, an independent scientist studying pharmaceutical chemistry in the
UC system’s professional researcher series. “We’re just biologists tinkering
with optics. It’s incredible to see what a legit physicist can come up with to
make our experiments better.”

At Duke, the laboratory of Michel Bagnat, professor of cell biology, also
works with zebrafish. But rather than watching for drug-induced behavioral
changes, the researchers study how the animals develop from an egg into a
fully formed adult on a cellular level.

In previous studies, the researchers needed to anesthetize and mount the
developing fish to keep them steady while measurements were taken with lasers.
But knocking them out for prolonged periods of time might also cause changes
in their development that could skew the experiment’s results. With the help
of the new MCAM, the researchers have shown that they’re able to get all of
these measurements while the fish live their lives unencumbered, no knockouts
or clamps required.

> “With the 3D and fluorescent imaging capabilities of this microscope, it
> could change the course of how a lot of developmental biologists do their
> experiments."
>
> jennifer bagwell

“With the 3D and fluorescent imaging capabilities of this microscope, it could
change the course of how a lot of developmental biologists do their
experiments,” said Jennifer Bagwell, a research scientist and lab manager in
the Bagnat lab. “Especially if it turns out that anesthetizing the fish
affects their development, which is something we’re studying right now.”

Besides tracking entire communities of small animals such as zebrafish in
experiments, Horstmeyer hopes this work will also allow for larger automated
parallel studies. For example, the microscope can watch a plate with 384 wells
loaded with a variety of organoids to test potential pharmaceutical reactions,
recording the cellular responses of each tiny experiment and autonomously
flagging any results of interest.

“The modern laboratory is becoming more automated every day, with large well
plates now being filled and maintained without ever touching a human hand,”
Horstmeyer said. “The sheer volume of data this is creating demands for new
technologies that can help automate the tracking and capturing of the
results.”

Along with coauthor Mark Harfouche, who was the brains behind capturing their
first image of Waldo, Horstmeyer has launched a startup company called Ramona
Optics to commercialize the technology. One of its early licensers, MIRA
Imaging, is using the technology to “fingerprint” fine art, collectables and
luxury goods to inoculate against forgery and fraud.

Further examples of the microscope in action can be found at:

  * MCAM project webpage: https://mcam.deepimaging.io/
  * Sample videos: https://gigazoom.rc.duke.edu/
  * Open source code: https://github.com/kevinczhou/3D-RAPID
  * Sample raw video files: https://doi.org/10.7924/r4db86b1q

This research is supported by the Office of Research Infrastructure Programs
(ORIP), Office of the Director, National Institutes of Health of the National
Institutes of Health and the National Institute of Environmental Health
Sciences (NIEHS) of the National Institutes of Health (R44OD024879), the
National Cancer Institute (NCI) of the National Institutes of Health
(R44CA250877), the National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering
(NIBIB) of the National Institutes of Health (R43EB030979), the National
Science Foundation (2036439) and a Duke Coulter Translational Partnership
Award.

“Parallelized computational 3D video microscopy of freely moving organisms at
multiple gigapixels per second.” KC Zhou, M Harfouche, CL Cooke, J Park, PC
Konda, L Kreiss, K Kim, J Jönsson, T Doman, P Reamey, V Saliu, CB Cook, M
Zheng, JP Bechtel , A Bègue, M McCarroll, J Bagwell, G Horstmeyer, M Bagnat, R
Horstmeyer. Nature Photonics, 2023. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41566-023-01171-7

## Related News

September 03, 2021

### Harnessing Light to Measure Brain Function

November 20, 2019

### Machine Learning Microscope Adapts Lighting to Improve Diagnoses

October 23, 2017

### Roarke Horstmeyer: Visualizing New Biomedical Imaging Tools and Techniques

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

