

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Students, Doctors Develop Next-Generation Surgical Implants

May 2, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

Undergraduates rapidly prototype biomedical devices on Duke’s 3D metal printer

Two groups of undergraduate students at Duke University have been creating
biomedical devices for their senior design projects with a campus rarity—a
titanium 3D metal printer.

Over the past few years, 3D printers that make plastic objects have become
somewhat commonplace—Duke’s Innovation Co-Lab has more than 60 of them for use
by faculty, staff and students. Metal 3D printers, however, are an entirely
different beast, requiring much more infrastructure and a steeper learning
curve.

But as the Duke students working out the kinks in the system this past year
will tell you, it’s been well worth the investment.

“The metal 3D printer allows us to make designs that could never be fabricated
by traditional manufacturing processes,” said Sam Morton, a senior studying
mechanical engineering. “It allows us to make actual biomedical devices out of
titanium that we can then test and get feedback on from the surgeons we’re
working with.”

“The turnaround is so quick,” echoed Dr. Robert Isaacs, associate professor of
neurosurgery at the Duke University School of Medicine, who is working with
Morton on his project. “You come up with a plan or notice a problem in a
prototype, and then almost in no time, Sam comes back and delivers exactly
what you just said. You think it, and then you’re holding it. It’s
incredible.”

The two groups of seniors are pursuing separate biomedical devices—an
intricate titanium spacer for spinal fusion surgeries and titanium scaffolds
for large bone defects. Both share common requirements and challenges.

Spinal fusions are common procedures meant to alleviate back pain caused by
two vertebrae rubbing together as a disc of cartilage fails. Surgeons insert
the device resembling a small, hollow Lego between the two vertebrae,
promoting the growth of bone around the device to fuse the two bones and stop
future movement.

Similarly, titanium scaffolds provide strength and support to surgically
removed portions of other bones while encouraging regrowth.

Current devices for both procedures however, have several drawbacks. Metal-
based devices are often too hard and opaque to the imaging technologies
doctors use to see how well the bone is growing. Plastic devices are not as
strong and do not facilitate as much bone growth.

The two senior design projects sought to create 3D printed devices that would
have the best of both worlds. Complex, sponge-like details encourage bone
growth in and around the implant while minimizing the amount of metal used and
allowing doctors to image the results afterward.

“The titanium 3D printer is a really great opportunity because it lets you
create structures that you couldn’t make using normal manufacturing
techniques,” said Samantha Sheppard, also a senior in mechanical engineering.
“We’re able to create porous structures that are better for bone ingrowth and
that really could only be made with this printer.”

“The doctors know a lot about what type of devices they want but traditionally
haven’t been able to get them manufactured,” said Morton. “With the 3D metal
printer, I’m able to come in and, without any limitations really, create a
geometry that satisfies their needs.”

In many ways, the 3D metal printer works much like a traditional plastic 3D
printer—by building a piece from the ground up, layer-by-layer. A robotic arm
much like a windshield wiper first sweeps a thin layer of titanium dust across
a metal plate. A high-power laser then melts the dust in the specific pattern
of the bottom layer. The entire plate then drops 30 microns, and the process
repeats until the part is finished.

A single part just a few centimeters tall takes the machine between three and
five hours to finish. For an entire plate filled with a dozen or more complex
parts, a run can take upwards of 20 hours. Either way, the printer allows for
rapid prototyping using a metal that is notoriously difficult to machine.

“For titanium, which is a very hard metal to manufacture with other methods,
the printer allows you to make intricate parts with internal complexities
relatively fast and in a multiplicative way,” said Ken Gall, professor and
chair of mechanical engineering and materials science, who led the effort to
acquire the printer. “Rather than sending out one design with a complex shape
for somebody else to make and waiting for it, you can put in 10 designs and
manufacture them all at the same time.”

While the biomedical devices the students are designing are not yet approved
for human use, the 3D metal printer allows the students to make pieces that
are of the same quality as those that could be eventually used.

“For the students to actually be able to make real parts that match what the
doctors want designed and then to actually test those parts is something that
you would rarely see at a university,” said Gall, who is associate director of
Duke MEDx, a new initiative to strengthen ties between clinicians and
engineers. “I wanted to change what Duke was capable of doing and part of that
involved bringing a 3D metal printer to campus. It’s going to open a lot of
windows for different types of projects at all levels, from freshmen to
faculty.”

“It’s a unique situation here at Duke, because of the proximity and
relationship between the medical center and the mechanical engineering and
materials science department,” said Morton. “Traditionally it would be
extremely hard for someone like me to not only have access to a printer like
this, but to create finalized products, take them over to a medical center,
meet with surgeons and then perform CT and tomography scans on my device all
within the same day. That’s extremely rare and not necessarily happening at
many other institutions.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

