

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# 3-D Printing to Give Medical Teams the Highest Level of Protection

April 13, 2020

COVID-19 Engineering Response Team tackles powered, air-purifying respirator
(PAPR)

_From Duke Today_

A protective respirator created by the Duke COVID-19 Engineering Response Team
to combat the critical shortage of medical equipment was used successfully by
health care workers in two Duke Health surgical cases last week.

With the high need for more personal protective equipment, Duke engineering
professors Ken Gall, Paul Fearis and Eric Richardson recognized the need to
turn a surgical helmet, which uses room air, into a powered air purifying
respirator (PAPR), which uses filtered air.

The Duke Engineering team worked closely with Chip Bobbert, Sr. Engineer and
Fabrication Architect in Duke’s Innovation Co-Lab to print and test numerous
designs using their Formlabs printers.

> “Basically, it is the highest level of protection we can offer our
> providers, particularly those that are intubating patients,” - Eric
> Richardson, Duke Biomedical Engineering.

“We were able to use the wonders of 3D printing here at Duke to start to print
those, see what works, see what didn’t. We worked through about four or five
iterations, and so we ended up with the final version that you see on the suit
now,” said Fearis, Lecturing Fellow, Senior in the Department of Biomedical
Engineering.

The modified protective equipment will keep doctors safe while caring for a
patient.

“Basically, it is the highest level of protection we can offer our providers,
particularly those that are intubating patients,” said Eric Richardson,
associate professor of the practice of Biomedical Engineering.

Surgical N95 respirator face masks are personal protective equipment (PPE)
that health care workers use to protect themselves from airborne and fluid
dangers. When they are not used, there’s a risk the worker could be exposed to
bodily fluids and blood, according the Centers for Disease Control.

As many hospitals experience PPE shortages, PAPRs are an approved alternative
that provides equivalent or greater protection for health care workers. The
reusable respirators completely cover health care workers’ faces and a
battery-powered blower pulls air through filters or cartridges.

The task force developed the 3D printed part for the adapted helmet under the
guidance of Duke orthopedic spine surgeon Melissa Erickson. Her idea of
modifying a surgical helmet to incorporate a filter combined with her
knowledge of medical equipment led the team to deliver a protective device
that could be used to safeguard health care workers during the COVID-19
pandemic. Erickson is a Weekend Executive MBA student at the Fuqua School and
credits her work in operations management as inspiring her interest.

> “The whole nation is undergoing a PPE shortage and our goal is to take care
> of our patients, take care of our communities and also take care of our
> healthcare workers. And what we started realizing is there is a limited
> number of PAPRs” - Melissa Erickson, Orthopedic Spine Surgeon

“Uniquely we have these helmets that we wear during arthroplasty surgery and
we started to wonder, ‘Can these be repurposed?’ So if there’s national
shortages on PPE and PAPRs, maybe we can use things that we have plenty of in
the hospital and do modifications to be able to increase the number of
protective personal equipment that we have to provide for health care
workers.”

The device sits on top of an existing piece of medical equipment and turns a
surgical helmet system into a PAPR, which basically is the highest level of
protection we can offer our providers, particularly those who are intubating
patients, described Richardson.

The task force’s PAPR was rigorously tested by a HEPA certification company,
Precision Air Technology, before care providers began using it. They have
already made more than a dozen additional units to deliver to Duke Health. The
final devices for clinical use are being printed using a Formlabs printer and
resin, a Boston based company with a local office in Durham. Richardson and
the task force plan to continue printing the device in order to deliver more
hoods to Duke Health in the coming days.

“It's fun working with extremely talented people, and having an urgent and
meaningful goal. I think we're all exhausted, but feeling like we're making
impact,” said Richardson."

In addition to the PAPRs, the COVID-19 Engineering Team also 3D printed a part
to create medical shields, which has been approved for use by health care
workers. The task force has been working to engineer and produce a wide range
of much-needed equipment including bed tents to isolate infectious patients
and 3D-printed “splitters” that make a single ventilator work for more than
one patient.

**For information about how to download and use the 3-D printed protective
respirator, contactDuke's Office of Licensing and Ventures.**

## Related News

April 03, 2020

### Solving Pressing Challenges: 3D Printing of Medical Grade Face Shields

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

