

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Air Quality Solutions Will Require Changes in Who Can Access Data

December 14, 2018

The latest research on air pollution in India suggests that data is limited in
areas that need the information the most

_From Duke Global_

If you’re in New Delhi during the winter months, you will see what looks like
a cloud hanging low on the city. The smog in the capital of India comes from a
variety of sources, including burning trash, cooking, vegetation fires and
vehicle emissions.

“It’s a vast, complex mixture of things you’re breathing in,” says Michael
Bergin, Duke professor in the Pratt School of Engineering.

Poor air quality plagues the city, and the harmful particles in the air
consistently exceed the World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines for outdoor
air quality. At unsafe levels, air pollution can cause severe respiratory
problems and heart disease, and it’s even considered a cancer-causing agent by
WHO.

On Dec. 13, at the Duke University Health Conference: Innovation, Policy &
Research, a panel of researchers from Duke University, the Indian Institute of
Technology (IIT) Bombay and the Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur
presented their latest work in India on air quality.

Delhi drives the conversation about air pollution in India, says Sachi
Tripathi, a professor at IIT Kanpur, but the air quality is often worse
elsewhere in the country.

Some of the air pollution in the capital may even be traveling from other
areas as far as hundreds of miles away, according to Tripathi’s research
efforts. He conducts monitoring studies that use spectroscopy, a chemical
analysis that can determine subtle differences in materials, as a way to
gather information that can indicate the origin and source of the soot in the
air.

In parallel, Ronak Sutaria, a researcher at IIT Bombay, is designing low-cost
sensor networks to conduct real-time monitoring. He’s creating these networks
in various locations across India, with the goal of increasing access to
information about air quality.

“Democratizing data technology means that information is made available
everywhere, from the fanciest of neighborhoods to the smallest of homes,”
Sutaria says.

Bergin and Sutaria have also looked at social media data, mining Twitter posts
to see where and when people are talking about air pollution. One pilot
project replied to individuals posting with the hashtag “#breath” with
automatic replies from an account that would share local air quality data.

The idea is that with better information, the public can also change behavior
during the worst times for air pollution, such as limiting outdoor activities.
It could also eventually lead to broader policy changes.

“Once people get better information, then they tend put public pressure on the
government to make changes,” Bergin says. “We’ve already seen this in China,
with regards to air pollution.”

_Read more:_

  * _Indian Roadside Refuse Fires Produce Toxic Rainbow_ (link is external)
    _(Pratt School of Engineering)_

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

