

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Joins $9.25M Project to Understand Concussion and Improve Recovery

May 19, 2017

Project focuses on the underlying cellular mechanisms of concussion

The Paul G. Allen Family Foundation announced today that it has awarded a
$9.25 million grant to study the underlying mechanisms of concussion and help
uncover potential clinical interventions that could improve recovery. The
project will be led by the University of Pennsylvania, with support from Duke
University and Columbia University.

There is a surprising lack of understanding of the cellular mechanisms
involved in concussions. The new grant aims to provide better data and
research on this area, which will be made openly available to the scientific
community. Instead of viewing concussions as stemming from a single mechanism,
this work will uncover how cellular events combine and influence concussion
recovery pathways.

The interdisciplinary project takes a comprehensive and data-driven look at
what happens to the brain during and after concussion, with the potential to
transform fields of research and clinical care of brain injury. The
researchers believe that, if successful, the project could bring a paradigm
shift to understanding traumatic brain injuries, leading to more effective
methods of preventing and treating concussions.

“This project addresses an area of immense societal importance and growing
concern, especially for kids and adults playing sports, the elderly and our
military,” said Cameron R. “Dale” Bass, associate research professor of
biomedical engineering at Duke University. “This project will substantially
improve our fundamental understanding of both the effects of injury and the
long term effects of recovery.”

The goal of the project is to understand the nature of concussions by taking a
network approach that looks at concussion’s impact across many scales in the
brain, including neural circuit connectivity, multiple cell types, blood flow
and the importance of the blood-brain barrier.

Duke’s role in the project will be to investigate interactions between
cellular response to impacts leading to traumatic brain injury and the
response of the brain and body as repair processes begin. Joining Bass in
Duke’s efforts will be Mohammed Abou Donia, professor of pharmacology and
cancer biology and neurobiology.

“In particular, we hope to decipher how the brain can re-route signals to
bring its network back on line after a concussion,” said project co-leader
Douglas H. Smith, director of the University of Pennsylvania’s Center for
Brain Injury and Repair and the Robert A. Groff professor of Neurosurgery in
the Perelman School of Medicine.

The research team will combine studies in living systems with data-driven
approaches that will provide insight into mechanisms of damage associated with
concussion, as well as what leads to successful brain repair. Because
individual cases of concussion vary so widely, capturing data at the level of
cells, circuits, blood flow and metabolism will help to make sense of the
concussion’s diverse outcomes and help uncover potential clinical
interventions to improve recovery.

“We are thrilled to be the recipients of this grant and to have the resources
to address the fundamentals of concussion science in a new way,” said project
co-leader David F. Meaney, the Solomon R. Pollack professor and chair of
Bioengineering in the University of Pennsylvania’s School of Engineering and
Applied Science. “We have assembled a diverse team of experts in many fields
across several academic institutions to take a comprehensive approach to the
problem, and are very grateful for the Paul G. Allen Family Foundation’s bold
vision to accelerate concussion science and treatment.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

