

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Alumni Profile: Alyssa Benza

April 29, 2014

Managing Director, Goldman Sachs | New York

**Graduation Year:** 2002

**Degree at Duke:**  
Bachelor of Science

**Major/Program:**  
Biomedical Engineering  
Electrical Engineering

**Career Highlights:**

  * Managing Director, Goldman Sachs
  * Member, Pratt Board of Visitors

> Walking into the door with an engineering degree from Duke made others give
> me the benefit of the doubt that I was smart and could solve problems. It
> helped me build credibility instantly.

A 2002 Duke graduate who double-majored in biomedical and electrical and
engineering, Alyssa Benza is now a managing director at Goldman Sachs—and
stays tied to her alma mater by serving on Pratt’s Board of Visitors.

#### What do you do at Goldman Sachs?

I oversee a group that works with clients who own hedge funds. We help them
with anything they might need regarding interest rates and foreign exchange
products, whether it be providing market information, executing trades or
providing access to our research. We deliver our firm’s services to clients
who do not have expertise in interest rates or foreign exchange and help them
either hedge their portfolio or create alpha—meaning uncorrelated profits—to
their core strategies and investments.

#### And how does an engineering degree from Duke translate to your
profession?

Actually, nothing I was taught in a classroom or the laboratory is directly
transferrable to my current career. But getting good grades while double
majoring in two engineering programs as difficult and prestigious as Duke’s
got my foot in the door. I could have taken economics or finance classes at
other schools, but I’m not sure I would have felt much more prepared. Trading
is not something you learn in school.

#### So if not with the subject matter, how did your time at Duke help you
prepare for a career on Wall Street?

Walking into the door with an engineering degree from Duke made others give me
the benefit of the doubt that I was smart and could solve problems. It helped
me build credibility instantly with anyone who looked at my resume. I think I
could have gotten where I am with a liberal arts degree, for example, but it
would have taken me a lot longer to prove myself. And then there’s the
network. There are a surprisingly large number of Duke engineers on Wall
Street who are close-knit and who have respect for and watch out for one
another.

#### How did you get to Goldman Sachs from Duke’s engineering program?

I knew after my junior year that I didn’t want to do research or work in a
laboratory. Your typical engineering career just wasn’t the right path for me.
Another Duke alum and a friend of mine at Goldman Sachs at the time convinced
me to interview for an internship there that summer. Somehow I got the job,
and I’ve been here ever since.

It might not seem like it, but there are actually a lot of similarities
between the people here and my friends at Duke, and that really resonated with
me. There are a lot of intelligent people with a ton to offer in many
different areas of expertise. I took this opportunity because it had an
extremely steep learning curve and I knew that I wouldn’t be bored. Plus, even
if I didn’t love the first job, there were a lot of other opportunities within
the company.

#### How can students today help put themselves in position to succeed after
graduation?

If students are lucky enough to know what they want, they can work hard the
first few years and it will pay off. There’s no doubt about that. I had a
phenomenal senior year partly because I already had a job lined up from
busting my tail for the first three years.

But it’s not all about work. The social aspect of Duke’s campus is just as
important, in my opinion. You can be as social or as studious as you want and
switch gears from one day to the next. As a 34-year-old on Wall Street, I
still find a lot of people I met more than 10 years ago who still help me in a
number of ways.

#### Why should students consider an ECE degree today?

There are a lot of great teachers for starters, but most of all it gives
optionality, especially in today’s world. With the tech world and social media
exploding, a lot of places are desperate for techies and coders. There’s just
so much demand. And although it’s very difficult and there’s no way you can
get through it without a lot of hard work, employers know that and the degree
will get you a long way in a lot of industries.

Read more: ECE alumni discuss their career paths

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

