

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Alumni Profile: Brian Fahey

April 11, 2016

_Brian Fahey, Ph.D., received his degree in Biomedical Engineering in 2007. He
is the founder and chief operating officer at Niveus Medical, a venture-backed
medical device company, for which he raised four rounds of capital at
increasing valuations while operating the company as a lean, capital-efficient
start-up._

Originially posted on the Duke Graduate School website

**WHAT PROFESSIONAL OR CAREER PLANS DID YOU HAVE IN MIND AS YOU WERE
COMPLETING YOUR GRADUATE DEGREE? ​**

For my first few years of graduate school, I thought I wanted to go on to be a
professor after receiving my Ph.D. At some point, I realized the pace of
academia just wasn’t a right fit for me. I’m not known for being a patient
person. I wanted to work on projects that could help improve medical care in
five years or less, not in ten or twenty years. The longer-term research
projects are clearly important and beneficial to society; it’s just not what
makes me the most excited.

**WHAT IS IT LIKE TO BE AN ENTREPRENEUR? WHAT IS PARTICULARLY CHALLENGING? ​**

Every single part of it is challenging. A lot of people I meet imagine that
running a start-up is this glamorous situation, when in fact it’s stressful
and an incredible amount of work. That said, it’s an amazing experience to be
on the forefront of developing and commercializing a technology that you think
will benefit society. You just need to make sure you are in it for the right
reasons. It may put financial stresses on you and your family, and in the end
it might not work out. That’s something you need to be comfortable with, and
it’s a risk that not everyone is willing to accept. But if you can stomach the
risk, you will get rewarded with the opportunity to work on something that is
really cutting edge, something you are passionate about and that you have had
an integral part in developing.

**HOW DIFFERENT IS THE THINKING PATTERN IN INDUSTRY COMPARED TO ACADEMIC
RESEARCH? ​**

Well, every situation is different, and there are exceptions for sure, but I
think it’s a fair generalization to suggest that a lot of academia involves
the development or application of core technology or expertise that you or
your research lab has created. The analogy I’ve seen used is that you have a
hammer, and you’re walking around trying to find nails to hit in. Basically,
you’ve got this great technology that you or your lab developed and you’re
excited to find new applications for it. You can contrast this with how I was
trained to think as I shifted to industry. The lesson was to start by
examining one very specific nail, and then design the very best hammer
possible to hit that one specific nail in. The challenge with a lot of
academic thinking is that at the end of the day, even if your “hammer” can do
the job, it still might not be the best way to accomplish the ultimate goal.
The key is the nail, the clinical problem, or the unmet clinical need.
Everything else should be tailored to that. When you start with a technology-
oriented approach, it doesn’t always work out.

**WHAT IS YOUR ADVICE ON COMMUNICATION AND TEAMWORK IN INDUSTRY?​**

The smaller the company is, the more intimately you’ll be working with your
co-workers. So I think people need to be realistic with themselves and find
the niche where they can thrive. If you are a very introverted person, you
might find yourself more comfortable in a larger company than in a smaller
group where you need to play a more active, vocal role. Regardless, in any
team or industry setting you need be able to collaborate with others on ideas,
be able to accept criticism, and be able to build on the idea of others.

**ANY ADVICE YOU’D LIKE TO SHARE WITH CURRENT GRADUATE STUDENTS AT DUKE?**

As for advice, if you’re considering industry, one thing I’d recommend would
be try to diversify your skill set into having as many real-world skills as
possible. I think one fair criticism of many Ph.D.s is that we know things
that don’t always matter in the corporate setting. This definitely was a fair
criticism of me when I finished my Ph.D. For example, I have a lot of skills
in ultrasound, but what could I really do in a non-ultrasound company? I was
good at computer programming, but not as good as a professional programmer. I
could build things, but not as well as even a basic technician or machinist. I
didn’t really know much about business. What could I do besides be a
scientist? Being a scientist or a researcher is a completely valid option and
a great career, but if you want to create more diverse opportunities for
yourself, you need to develop some real, tangible skills. There’s no formula
for how to best do this. Just surround yourself with people who have skills
and experience you covet. Try to be a sponge and learn as much as you can.

The two most important pieces of advice I have: 1) Be honest with yourself and
be aware of what you are good at, what you are not good at, what you know, and
what you don’t know. And surround yourself with people who can make up for
your own deficiencies. 2) Be your own hardest critic, especially if you are
trying to start something new, either as a company or a project or something
else. If you can’t answer the hardest question about the project that you can
think of, you’re just delaying the inevitable. Because someone else is
eventually going to ask the question, or the issue at-hand will manifest
itself eventually in one way or another. You want to characterize and to the
extent possible mitigate the biggest risks for whatever you are doing early.
If you can’t address the hard questions early, the whole project might not be
a good use of your time. All of us have limited time in our careers to explore
projects. Ph.D. students are generally smart and gifted people. So don’t waste
your time on something that can be flawed from the outset. If you are your own
hardest critic, and you can answer all the hard questions, that’s when you
know you have something.

_**By Yi Ding, PhD Candidate in Pharmacology**_

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

