

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Alumni Profile: Ellen MacLean

May 2, 2014

Senior Principal Engineer, Defense Industry | Greater San Diego, Calif.

****

**Graduation Year:** 1986

**Major/Program:**  
Electrical Engineering

**Career Highlights:**

A senior principal engineer at Orincon, a San Diego company later acquired by
Lockheed Martin, Ellen MacLean builds algorithms for tracking and data-fusion
technology used by the U.S. military, which enables sophisticated surveillance
of areas from deserts to dense urban areas. Much of her work is for the U.S.
Defense Advanced Research Projects agency, or DARPA, which means that much of
her work is classified. But MacLean freely shares her passion for what she
does, and her fascination for bringing these intricate formulas into action.

> At Duke I got a broad look at what I could do, from building hardware in EE
> labs to solving system problems to learning about different algorithms and
> algorithm development. Duke let me see for myself where I wanted to go.

#### Tell us about what you do.

Essentially, we build technology that can use geographic location data, taken
over time, to come up with an operating picture of all the motion in a
particular area.

For the last 20 years our work has been done using multiple hypothesis
tracking, or MHT. Data from the area is gathered using a GTMI, or ground
moving target indicator radar, and more recently we’ve also been using video
sensors developed by DARPA. Then the MHT algorithm we develop sorts through
all the data and how data relate to each other, and it develops the most
probable models for what’s happening in these different areas of interest.
We’re also working with an emerging technique that uses a graph-based approach
to represent the data associations; it uses the same underlying technology as
our MHT work, but graph-based approaches can be more useful when you’re in a
dense urban environment, as opposed to when you’re out in a desert somewhere.

It’s very much a niche technology, and it’s got a lot of applications in the
defense arena. You could also apply it to homeland security problems, such as
border crossing issues—it can be applied to any situation where you’d want to
know about movement in a particular area.

#### What do you enjoy most about your job?

I enjoy the technical challenge of trying to solve the latest problem. The
teamwork, working together in the lab and brainstorming to try to solve a new
problem, is an absolutely fascinating process. I also really enjoy going out
into the field when we take our solution into live tests. You do all this up-
front work and then in real time it never works the same way your simulation
did, so you’re having to do a lot of thinking on the fly. I like that
combination of being able to be in the lab and then going out and putting our
algorithms and software to the test, and figuring out where they’re breaking,
and how to fix them on your feet.

#### How did you get into this field?

It was partly pure luck. When I was at Duke I got a summer internship in DC
with a company that did a lot of underwater acoustic work—trying to find
submarines underwater. They worked with interpreting sound signals; in other
words, when sound passes through water and bounces off something, is it
bouncing off the ocean floor or something else? After graduation I went back
to work with that company and got involved with folks who were doing tracking
work—taking that signal detection and putting it together over time to find
out where the object was moving. I’ve stuck with the tracking and data fusion
area ever since. In my career, I’ve applied it to underwater acoustics, ground
tracking problems, air tracking problems and a combination of surface, ground
and air-tracking problems.

#### How did Duke affect your career path?

Duke set me in the exact right direction to be able to make a career for
myself. Even though I applied to the School of Engineering, at the time I
thought that maybe I actually wanted to do math. But through the classes I
took at Duke, I found that I was much more of an engineer with a mathematical
bent. I got this broad look at what I could do, from building hardware in EE
labs to solving system problems to learning about different algorithms and
algorithm development. I got to explore what I wanted to do and how I could
take what I learned from Duke, go to graduate school, apply it there, and then
apply it to the working world. Duke let me see for myself where I wanted to
go.

Read more: ECE alumni discuss their career paths

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

