

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Alumni Profile: Mohan Iyer

March 21, 2016

Alumni profile of Mohan Iyer, 1985 graduate of Biomedical Engineering. Iyer is
currently the chief business officer at Second Genome, a Bay-area biotech
company that develops therapeutics based on microbiome science.

##### Developing Products to Benefit Humankind

#####

Mohan Iyer graduated from Duke with his master's in biomedical engineering in
1985, working with advisor Prof. Howard Clark. He went on to earn an MBA from
Yale University, which has aided in his business ventures. Now Mr. Iyer is the
chief business officer at Second Genome, a Bay-area biotech company that
develops therapeutics based on microbiome science.

**Graduation Year:** 1985

**Degree(s) at Duke:**  
Master's

**Major/Program:**  
Biomedical Engineering

**Career Highlights:**

  * Chief Business Officer, Second Genome
  * CAEVP, Corporate and Business Development, diaDexus
  * Managing Director, Merchant Banking, Burrill & Company
  * Chief Business Officer, Tethys Bioscience, Inc.
  * CFO, Tethys Bioscience, Inc.
  * Chief Business Officer, Second Genome, Inc.

> My life experience leads me to this advice: Don’t be afraid to set
> improbable goals. If your heart is in it, go for it.

##### What professional or career plans did you have in mind as you were
completing your graduate degree?

I was in the Biomedical Engineering M.S. program, but I knew that I wanted to
work in this very new field called “biotech.” Remember, this was 1985; the
first drugs from recombinant DNA were just invented. I think there were
literally two biotech companies that were based in the San Francisco bay area,
but they were basically startups. My undergraduate training was in chemical
engineering and my master’s focus was in biochemical engineering. I knew that
these skills would be applicable in large-scale manufacturing of recombinant
protein drugs that these companies were developing. The problem was that the
types of companies that came on campus to recruit were either large chemical
conglomerates or oil companies. They didn’t capture my heart, so I decided
that if I was offered a job at a biotech company, I’d go; if not, I would
pursue my Ph.D. I was offered a job at Genentech, so I decided to accept.

##### What has your career path looked like since you graduated?

Genentech was still a startup when I joined, but they were at the point where
they needed engineers to scale up their products. I was hired as part of the
first scale-up team. Together, we produced the first pharmaceutical-grade
proteins on kilogram scales. A few years later, my role began to transition
from the highly-technical to more managerial. I left Genentech as it was
purchased by Roche to pursue my MBA at Yale. I then worked for a healthcare
management consulting firm to get a feel for the big picture issues in the
industry and key trends shaping it. I’ve also done a short gig in investment
banking. Now, I work with startups, usually in a role where I assist the CEO
to develop a strong, viable business plan and then help overcome the many
implementation challenges. I like to work with companies with an interesting
way of solving serious biomedical problems. I typically stay for four to five
years to help get it off the ground, and generally leave before it becomes too
big (i.e., public or sold to a larger company).

##### What do you like best about what you do now?

I really enjoy creating and working to bring a product to market for the
benefit of humankind. My particular job is building the company’s business
model framework so that the company succeeds, provided the product works. Lots
of things go into a successful company, and I enjoy serving an
interdisciplinary role between the science and the business side. I also
didn’t think I would enjoy managing and developing people as much as I do. In
fact this has been a fulfilling part of my career, watching people on my teams
discover their key strengths and find their personal growth paths.

##### What was the best career advice you ever received?

When I told Dr. Clark about my desire to go into biotech, he said, “Look, they
don’t have the money to hire engineers right now and there’s only really one
biotech company in the world. It’s pretty low odds, but if you set your heart
to it, I’m sure you can do it.” We engineers, especially those in graduate
school, often look at life hyper-rationally: how many companies are there who
would be interested in my narrow set of specialized skills? How many have the
money and growth to hire me right now? You may end up talking yourself out of
applying to a job because you believe the odds are so low. My life experience
leads me to this advice: Don’t be afraid to set improbable goals. If your
heart is in it, go for it.

##### Do you have any other advice you'd like to sharer with graduate student
at duke?

A note on geography: I’ve found that people have a very positive view of Duke
graduates on the west coast, but also that often students at Duke who reach
out to me seem to think that Stanford or some other schools get preference out
West. That is just not true. Duke has a solid reputation that people out here
are intrigued about. That was my experience as I graduated, and it holds true
today.

_Written by Daniel French for theDuke Graduate School._

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

