

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Alumni Profile: Doug Hege

March 12, 2014

Launching a Generation

**Graduation Year:** 1942

**Degree at Duke:** Bachelor of Science

**Career Highlights** :

  * Played an instrumental role in rocketry program from the field’s inception
    through the launch of the Global Positioning Satellite system
  * Presided over the marketing for 16 divisions of Rockwell International

There was never any doubt that Doug Hege would go to Duke. His father attended
Trinity College when it was just a handful of buildings on today’s East
Campus. But it wasn’t just him; all told, 17 members of the Hege family
attended Duke.

There was, however, some debate over what direction Doug’s career would take
when he went to campus. His father’s uncle was a doctor. His father was a
doctor. His uncle was a doctor. His cousin was a doctor. And his brother, who
was a year and a half older than Doug, was entering medical school at Duke.

“My dad asked me why I wasn’t going into medicine,” said Hege, who chose
instead to pursue a degree in engineering. “I said that I didn’t want to work
on a machine that I’m never going to understand. I want to work on mechanisms
that I can figure out how to improve.”

And that is exactly what Doug Hege did.

During his 34-year career, Hege played an instrumental role in virtually every
single rocketry program from the field’s inception through the launch of the
Global Positioning Satellite system. He helped take apart and understand the
German V-2 rockets that first propelled mankind into the rocket age,
envisioned the Atlas engines that pushed the first American satellite into
space and oversaw the design of the 7.5 million pounds of thrust that would
take Neil Armstrong to the moon. And before he retired, he presided over the
marketing for 16 divisions of Rockwell International with annual combined
sales of $4 billion.

**The Early Years**

Hege graduated from Duke’s engineering school with a bachelor’s degree in
1942—just three years after the school was established. After a short stint
working for Westinghouse, he joined the Air Force, graduating from their
Engineering Officer Program at Yale University in 1943 before being sent to
work on a master’s degree in rocketry at the California Institute of
Technology. After graduating and leaving the service, he began work for North
American Aviation as manager of the Propulsion Advanced Design group.

His group got their hands on a couple of German V-2 rockets, the first
ballistic missiles ever constructed, and took them apart to accelerate the
development of their own designs. Before long, the missile had been uprated
from 57,000 pounds of thrust to 75,000 pounds of thrust, and Hege was called
into his boss’s office.

“I was told, ‘Why don’t you go down and see if you can sell those Germans
something,’” recalls Hege, who soon discovered that “those Germans” meant
Wernher Von Braun, the “Father of Rocket Science,” who had originally designed
the V-2 rockets, and who was still a POW helping the United States government
develop their rocketry program. “I showed him a movie of our engine running
and he took one look and said, ‘I’ll buy it!’ three times. His military escort
told me not to get excited because he was a POW without any authority. But it
turned out he did actually have at least a little influence, because our
engine was bought and became the Redstone Missile.”

The Redstone Missile was the first large American ballistic missile. It was a
short-range surface-to-surface device that was used extensively by NATO during
the Cold War in defense of Western Europe and was the first missile to carry a
live nuclear warhead. Thanks to that success, Hege’s division was spun into a
separate company called Rocketdyne, which won the contract to build the Atlas
rockets that Von Braun eventually used to launch Explorer-1, the first
American satellite to leave the Earth’s atmosphere.

**To the Moon**

By that time, the U.S. government had decided to focus on designing and
producing Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles – ICBMs for short – and Hege had
been promoted to Vice President of Marketing and Advanced Design. Although he
never had to market his products to the general public, Hege was constantly
working to secure government contracts while simultaneously pushing the
engineering envelope to stay ahead of their needs.

Several years into the Atlas program, Hege and his department numbering 2,500
people were tasked with designing the tallest, heaviest, most powerful rocket
ever brought to operational status – records that remain intact to this day.

“One day I was out at Wright Field in Ohio and I was asked how big of a rocket
engine I could build,” recalls Hege. “I said, ‘Oh I don’t know, maybe a
million, a million-and-a-half-pound thrust—ten times what we’re building now.’
And they said, ‘Well, go build one.’

“And I did.”

That rocket engine—dubbed “King Kong” at the time—eventually morphed into the
Saturn 1-B, five of which were used in the first stage of the Apollo
spacecraft. In fact, Hege’s department provided all three stages comprising 11
rockets and 7.5 million pounds of thrust to get the Apollo program to the
moon.

“I once counted that the whole Apollo/Saturn 5 program used about 100
propulsive and separation devices and that Rocketdyne made about 95 of them,”
recalls Hege.

Rocketdyne was soon acquired by Rockwell-Standard, renamed Rockwell
International. The change in letterhead did nothing to slow their momentum,
however, as the company set out to win the contract to build the main engine
for the Space Shuttle program. Hege put his job on the line by insisting that
the company propose an older, proven technological design rather than an
innovation they had been developing. Hege believed NASA was worried about the
growing amount of unproven designs going into the enormous project.

And he was right.

Rocketdyne was commissioned to build the Space Shuttle engines, which flew on
each vehicle until their retirement. With so much success under his belt, it
is no surprise that Hege was soon tapped on the shoulder to bear even greater
responsibilities.

**All in a Day’s Work**

Hege handed over the reins of the engineering side of the department and
focused all of his energy on marketing. His job was to develop concepts for
new engines and then win the contracts to design and build them, at which
point it became engineering’s job to deliver. In 1966, Rocketdyne was doing
$330 million in annual business—roughly $2 billion in today’s dollars—and
employed 22,500 people.

Soon after, Hege was named the director of propulsion integration for the
space shuttle project—a post he held for only three years. When his friend and
boss was called up to head all of Rockwell International’s Space Operations,
Hege was asked to take charge of its marketing. After the meeting, Hege was
headed downstairs to pick out an office when the president of Aircraft and
Energy Operations asked him to do the same job for that division as well.

“I walked out that morning in charge of the marketing for 16 divisions with $4
billion in annual sales, about a third of Rockwell’s annual total,” recalls
Hege of the two meetings. “They jumped me five salary grades for taking on the
jobs. I thought that was a pretty good day’s work.”

After five years, Hege began to grow tired of his one-to-two hour daily
commute and took a different position as division director for Rockwell
International’s satellite and advanced programs at their facility in Seal
Beach, Calif. The key program he helped launch were the satellites for the
Global Positioning Satellite (GPS) system, but he also worked on surveillance
systems, Star Wars programs, and future space and space station studies.

In 1981, Hege retired at the age of 60. Since that time, Rocketdyne has gone
through some major changes, being sold to Boeing in 1996, to UTC Pratt &
Whitney in 2005, and finally to AeroJet (GenCorp) in 2013. However, after
years of traveling the world and playing golf courses throughout Scotland and
Europe with his wife, Doug Hege remains much the same.

At the age of 93, Hege is still sharp as a tack and can’t help but continue to
innovate; even while sitting at the kitchen table, his imagination runs wild.

“I always seemed to have the knack for innovation,” Hege said. “I still do it.
I’m sitting here looking at my walker and I’m redesigning it. Everything I see
I try to think of how to do it better; it’s just a built-in trait.

“I’ve visited campus again once after it became Pratt. Things have changed
tremendously—there are new, beautiful buildings and the engineers no long live
on East Campus, which used to be surrounded by a three-hole golf course. But
much remains the same. There still seems to be a nice camaraderie between the
guys, the students still get into plenty of mischief and they still leave
Durham with the outstanding education that helped get my career off the
ground.”

_Article originally published in 2014_

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

