

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Amanda Randles: Computing Complex Biological Systems

June 5, 2015

Supercomputers model blood flow to improve care outcomes

Amanda Randles, a pioneer in using supercomputers to gain insight into
biomedical challenges, will join Duke University’s Biomedical Engineering
Department on July 1, 2015. Bringing with her computer models of how blood,
particles and cells travel through our veins and arteries, Randles will work
with Duke Medicine physicians to identify the best ways to treat patients with
ailments like aneurysms, cancer and coronary artery disease on a case-by-case
basis.

This line of research fuses two of Pratt’s burgeoning strengths together—the
strong ties between engineering and Duke Medicine and the newly endowed
Information Initiative at Duke (iiD)—and opens a new line of research that
many are sure to follow.

“The iiD is delighted to have helped the Biomedical Engineering Department
bring Amanda to Duke, and we are looking forward to developing new
partnerships with Pratt,” said Robert Calderbank, the Charles S. Sydnor
Professor of Computer Science, a professor of electrical and computer
engineering and the director of the iiD. “Her expertise in large-scale
computing brings a new capability to the iiD community.”

“Amanda will help Duke’s Biomedical Engineering Department be one of the first
to take the plunge into high performance computational bioengineering,” echoed
Ashutosh Chilkoti, director of Duke’s Biomedical Engineering Department. “We
are very excited to help chart this new and exciting course for the field.”

Randles’s appointment is a coming home of sorts, as she graduated from Duke
University with dual bachelor’s degrees in computer science and physics in
2005. While focusing on computational methods in genetics and bioinformatics,
she wrote her undergraduate thesis on optics under the tutelage of David
Brady, professor of electrical and computer engineering, and Bob Guenther,
adjunct professor of physics.

After three years at IBM as a developer on its Blue Gene project—the world’s
fastest supercomputer at the time—Randles returned to school so she could
conduct more research on the supercomputers she was helping to develop. She
enrolled at Harvard University, where she earned a master’s degree in computer
science and a PhD in applied physics. After moving to Lawrence Livermore
National Laboratory to work with some of the country's largest supercomputers,
Randles was able to fully fund her cardiovascular modeling project last year
and found herself ready to start her own research enterprise.

She chose to return to Duke among many enticing offers—and not just for the
basketball (although she’s known to be a diehard Blue Devil).

“I’ve spent the past few years focusing on the computer science required to
develop a 3D model of the cardiovascular system, and now I want to focus on
using my work to make a medical impact,” said Randles. “Being able to walk to
a hospital and meeting physicians who explicitly want to work with engineers
is exactly what I was looking for, and that’s what I found at Duke.”

Randles specializes in writing code for supercomputers with thousands of
processors that work in parallel. By splitting the computational tasks among
them simultaneously, researchers can cut calculations that would otherwise
take weeks down to days or even hours.

The code that Randles is cultivating creates 3D models of a patient’s specific
blood-flow dynamics. With this information in hand, doctors can noninvasively
measure risk factors and choose the best surgical or interventional option for
that patient. For example, the model could indicate blood vessels with areas
of low shear stress, which is an indicator of where plaque may build up along
the wall of an artery.

The video below highlights some of the 3D models she developed while working
on her PhD in applied physics in the research group of Efthimios Kaxiras, the
John Hasbrouck Van Vleck Professor of Pure and Applied Physics at Harvard
University.

Randles’s work can already create the calculations needed to model a small
segment of the cardiovascular system, and she has been using 3D-printed models
to test her predictions. After moving to Duke, however, she wants to begin
working with physicians to verify that her program is accurate in actual
biological systems.

“We’ve only recently gotten to the point where CT or MRI scans are detailed
enough to even try to model blood flowing through the 3D geometry of the
vasculature system,” said Randles. “And with supercomputers that were
originally dedicated to physics or Department of Defense experiments now
starting to be used by biomedical engineers, I think we’re only a few years
away from being able to help real people.”

The second prong of Randles’s work, however, will take much longer to see
through to fruition. Once the small segments of her model have been verified,
Randles wants to scale her work up to model the entire vascular system. From
there, she hopes to use fluorescent metastatic cancer cells to determine what
physical features of a person’s blood flow affect where a new tumor will start
to grow.

“Realizing that dream is at least a decade or two away, though,” said Randles.
“The supercomputers I will need to run those calculations haven’t even been
built yet. But they’re coming, and I’ll be ready when they arrive.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

