

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Andrew Jones III: Expanding Access to Safe, Clean Water

April 15, 2021

New faculty member Andrew Jones III blends environmental engineering and
policy analysis, aiming to improve water quality and advance water equity

Andrew Jones III will join the faculty of Duke University’s Department of
Civil and Environmental Engineering in July 2021. Jones comes to Duke from an
Assistant Professorship in Chemical Engineering at Northeastern University,
after completing his bachelor’s, master’s and doctoral degrees in mechanical
engineering at Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

In the lab, Jones designs new ways to treat water and measure water quality,
which is why he devotes so much time to the study of bacterial biofilms—sticky
cell matrices that adhere tenaciously to all kinds of surfaces, from the walls
of aquariums to the valves of the human heart. Understanding how these
bacterial communities form and how they can be safely and effectively
dissolved is key to Jones’s research mission: enabling high-tech solutions
that are backed by policy to expand access to safe, clean water.

In the last few years, the idea of a “water smart grid,” akin to an electric
smart grid, has gained traction as an equitable way to bring clean water to
those who need it. In this type of system, resources are produced and stored
locally—think home solar panels and their related batteries. But Jones said
that most research and development muscle has focused on smart metering, which
identifies patterns in consumption. That single focus has left two critical
components of the smart water grid—distributed water generation and storage—in
the lurch.

“Distributed storage was phased out when we moved away from water towers
because of contamination issues,” explained Jones. Understanding how
communities of bacteria form and what treatments they’re susceptible to is
crucial to developing localized safe drinking water reserves, but it requires
constant innovation—fresh water is frequently found to contain nanoparticles
and antibiotics, which can counteract common antibacterial strategies. “We
work on developing new antibiotics and studying how antibiotics react with
bacteria and biofilms to remove them from certain systems—not just from
drinking water systems, but also from the human body,” he said.

As more parts of the smart water grid come online, Jones is keen to ensure
that the new technologies are made more widely available than they have been
in the past. “Technology usually goes to people who have resources—for
example, to install solar panels or to park electric vehicles in their
driveways,” said Jones. “As new water technologies become available, how do we
make sure they’re distributed equitably, so they lift everyone up rather than
exacerbating the inequality we already see?”

> “As new water technologies become available, how do we make sure they’re
> distributed equitably, so they lift everyone up rather than exacerbating the
> inequality we already see?”

Duke, with its highly regarded schools of medicine and public policy in
addition to engineering, seemed to Jones to be the ideal place to dig into
answering these important questions, and he expects nearby branches of the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the National Institute of
Environmental Health Sciences to be valuable resources in the future, when he
seeks to involve policymakers in his work.

“You can create a new technology and you can market it, but it won’t go
anywhere without some backing of federal policy,” said Jones. “Look at the
catalytic converter, which was created to improve air quality. It wasn’t until
1975, when it was mandated by the government, that it started to make a very
large impact on public health.”

The area’s history of agriculture and manufacturing make it an excellent place
to interface with legacy water quality problems, said Jones. He sees potential
for the Research Triangle area to develop a center of gravity around the kinds
of environmental technologies that could address water pollution. “There’s no
notable agricultural tech or environmental tech hub yet, in the way that
Boston has biopharma and Silicon Valley has computing,” said Jones. “I think
the Research Triangle would be a great location for this kind of center.”

As enthusiastic as Jones is about advancing his research agenda, he’s equally
invested in teaching and relishes opportunities to give undergraduates
exposure to university research. “Also, being able to learn from students in a
way that’s hands-on is really fun,” said Jones. “Right now, instead of exams,
I’ve assigned individual fluid dynamics projects, and a sophomore student
taught me how helical flow can protect the human heart from atherosclerosis. I
would not have done that research on my own, but now I’m trying to fit it in
to studying biofilms in the heart and endocarditis. Running projects like that
where students can explore—and I can learn from them—is so exciting.”

More News from Duke CEE

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

