

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# AI Models Microprocessor Performance in Real-Time

December 10, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

New algorithm predicts processor power consumption trillions of times per
second while requiring little power or circuitry of its own

Computer engineers at Duke University have developed a new AI method for
accurately predicting the power consumption of any type of computer processor
more than a trillion times per second while barely using any computational
power itself. Dubbed APOLLO, the technique has been validated on real-world,
high-performance microprocessors and could help improve the efficiency and
inform the development of new microprocessors.

The approach is detailed in a paper published at MICRO-54: 54th Annual
IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Microarchitecture, one of the top-tier
conferences in computer architecture, where it was selected the conference’s
best publication.

“This is an intensively studied problem that has traditionally relied on extra
circuitry to address,” said Zhiyao Xie, first author of the paper and a PhD
candidate in the laboratory of Yiran Chen, professor of electrical and
computer engineering at Duke. “But our approach runs directly on the
microprocessor in the background, which opens many new opportunities. I think
that’s why people are excited about it.”

In modern computer processors, cycles of computations are made on the order of
3 trillion times per second. Keeping track of the power consumed by such
intensely fast transitions is important to maintain the entire chip’s
performance and efficiency. If a processor draws too much power, it can
overheat and cause damage. Sudden swings in power demand can cause internal
electromagnetic complications that can slow the entire processor down.

By implementing software that can predict and stop these undesirable extremes
from happening, computer engineers can protect their hardware and increase its
performance. But such schemes come at a cost. Keeping pace with modern
microprocessors typically requires precious extra hardware and computational
power.

> “APOLLO approaches an ideal power estimation algorithm that is both accurate
> and fast and can easily be built into a processing core at a low power cost.
> And because it can be used in any type of processing unit, it could become a
> common component in future chip design.”
>
> Zhiyao Xie

“APOLLO approaches an ideal power estimation algorithm that is both accurate
and fast and can easily be built into a processing core at a low power cost,”
Xie said. “And because it can be used in any type of processing unit, it could
become a common component in future chip design.”

The secret to APOLLO’s power comes from artificial intelligence. The algorithm
developed by Xie and Chen uses AI to identify and select just 100 of a
processor’s millions of signals that correlate most closely with its power
consumption. It then builds a power consumption model off of those 100 signals
and monitors them to predict the entire chip’s performance in real-time.

Because this learning process is autonomous and data driven, it can be
implemented on most any computer processor architecture — even those that have
yet to be invented. And while it doesn’t require any human designer expertise
to do its job, the algorithm could help human designers do theirs.

“After the AI selects its 100 signals, you can look at the algorithm and see
what they are,” Xie said. “A lot of the selections make intuitive sense, but
even if they don’t, they can provide feedback to designers by informing them
which processes are most strongly correlated with power consumption and
performance.”

The work is part of a collaboration with Arm Research, a computer engineering
research organization that aims to analyze the disruptions impacting industry
and create advanced solutions, many years ahead of deployment. With the help
of Arm Research, APOLLO has already been validated on some of today’s highest
performing processors. But according to the researchers, the algorithm still
needs testing and comprehensive evaluations on many more platforms before it
would be adopted by commercial computer manufacturers.

“Arm Research works with and receives funding from some of the biggest names
in the industry, like Intel and IBM, and predicting power consumption is one
of their major priorities,” Chen added. “Projects like this offer our students
an opportunity to work with these industry leaders, and these are the types of
results that make them want to continue working with and hiring Duke
graduates.”

This work was conducted under the high-performance AClass CPU research program
at Arm Research and was partially supported by the National Science Foundation
(NSF-2106828, NSF-2112562) and the Semiconductor Research Corporation (SRC).

CITATION: “APOLLO: An Automated Power Modeling Framework for Runtime Power
Introspection in High-Volume Commercial Microprocessors.” Zhiyao Xie, Xiaoqing
Xu, Matt Walker, Joshua Knebel, Kumaraguru Palaniswamy, Nicolas Hebert, Jiang
Hu, Huanrui Yang, Yiran Chen, Shidhartha Das. MICRO-54, October, 2021. DOI:
10.1145/3466752.3480064

Online: https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3466752.3480064

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

