

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# ‘ASCENT’ Makes it Easier to Study Electrical Stimulation of Nerves

September 7, 2021 | Michaela Kane

Computational platform allows non-experts to create patient-specific, 3D
models of nerves being electrically stimulated

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have developed an open-source software
platform that automates 3D electrical nerve stimulation modeling. This will
allow researchers to predict how specific nerves respond to different patterns
of stimulation from custom electrodes.

The platform will help researchers create accurate models of new therapies for
a variety of diseases, including diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, and
cardiovascular disease.

Like a pacemaker for the heart, nerve stimulation devices are implanted in the
body and programmed to send targeted pulses of electricity into nerves. These
electrical pulses may initiate or suppress signals in the nerve, changing the
regulation of organ functions to treat disease. Nerve stimulation can be a
promising alternative to drugs.

This research appears online September 7 in the journal PLOS Computational
Biology.

Certain electrical stimulation therapies, like vagus nerve stimulation, have
already proven to be an effective treatment for illnesses like epilepsy and
depression in patients who don’t respond to traditional drug therapies.

“Despite promising preclinical data, translating nerve stimulation to the
clinic is challenging because there is a lot of variability in neural anatomy
between animals and humans and even person to person,” said Nicole Pelot, a
research director in Warren Grill’s biomedical engineering lab at Duke
University. “These variabilities require choosing different electrodes or
stimulation parameters to achieve a targeted response, which can be a bit of a
guessing game.”

While computational modeling allows researchers to avoid some of guesswork in
electrical stimulation, the modeling process is highly complex, which usually
restricts its use to expert developers and limits model reproducibility and
reuse. Grill, the Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School Distinguished Professor of
Biomedical Engineering at Duke, has spent the last four years with his
colleagues developing a solution.

Grill said ASCENT, or Automated Simulations to Characterize Electrical Nerve
Thresholds, makes modeling nerve stimulation more accessible, reproducible,
and efficient. It allows researchers to define a variety of information, like
nerve geometry, fiber models, electrode design, and stimulation waveforms, and
then simulate a nerve’s response to the electrical pulses.

ASCENT’s automation allows users to replicate models from previously published
research, turning a process that could take years into something that may take
just a few weeks or days. “We designed the code so it’s very expandable,”
added Jake Cariello, an undergraduate research assistant in the Grill lab. “We
broke down the complex system into its sub-components, and each of those sub-
components is customizable.”

ASCENT is an open-source project and is free for users to access, as part of
the National Institutes of Health Common Fund’s Stimulating Peripheral
Activity to Relieve Conditions program (SPARC). The ASCENT software is
available for download HERE.

“A tool that is this specialized is usually inaccessible to more novice
users,” said Eric Musselman, a PhD student in the Grill lab. “We hope ASCENT
will help push the science forward as more researchers are able to design and
interpret therapeutic interventions using computational models.”

This project was supported by the National Institutes of Health’s SPARC
Program (OT2OD025340).

CITATION: “ASCENT (Automated Simulations to Characterize Electrical Nerve
Thresholds): A pipeline for sample-specific computational modeling of
electrical stimulation of peripheral nerves” Eric Musselman, Jake Cariello,
Warren Grill, Nicole Pelot. PLOS Computational Biology, August 26, 2021. DOI:
10.1371/journal.pcbi.1009285

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

