

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Asiedu Wins Prestigious Lemelson-MIT Student Prize

May 7, 2019

__Biomedical engineering doctoral student Mercy Asiedu was recognized for her
work involving an easy-to-use diagnostic device for cervical cancer__

Mercy Asiedu has received a 2019 Lemelson-MIT Graduate Student Prize, a
prestigious award that recognizes young inventors who have dedicated
themselves to solving global problems. Asiedu, a fifth-year PhD candidate in
Nimmi Ramanujam’s lab in Duke University’s Department of Biomedical
Engineering, was selected from nearly 120 applicants for her impactful work
developing revolutionary, patented diagnostic tools for cervical cancer. She
received the “Cure it!” prize, which rewards students working on technology-
based health care inventions. Earlier this semester, Asiedu was also awarded a
$100,000 2019 Schmidt Science Fellowship to pursue post-doctoral research
focused on machine-learning algorithms for improved medical diagnostics.

Cervical cancer affects more than half a million women worldwide each year,
and over half of these women ultimately die from the disease. The majority of
deaths occur in low and middle-income countries. But unlike other types of
cancer, cervical cancer can be prevented through various interventions,
including a vaccine and routine cervical exams. Visual inspection of the
cervix with the naked or eye or with imaging devices called colposcope are
used to examine the vagina and cervix for any signs of cancer.

Traditional colposcopes are bulky magnifying devices that require use of a
speculum to spread the vaginal walls before clinicians can visually check for
signs of cancer. Although these tools are effective, they are very expensive,
and often uncomfortable for women.

During her PhD studies, Asiedu has been helping design and prototype the
Pocket Colposcope, a compact tool shaped like a tampon and packing the
performance of a high-end colposcope. It can enable health care workers in
resource-limited areas to both screen for and diagnose cervical cancer without
expensive imaging equipment. She has also developed the Callascope, a smaller
version of the Pocket Colposcope, which removes the need for a speculum and
enables self-screening, eliminating an uncomfortable and sometimes painful
part of the cervical exam.

Rather than visualize the cervix from outside the speculum, like traditional
colposcopes, the Callascope can be inserted directly into the vagina using a
mechanical introducer shaped like a calla lily that can expand the vaginal
walls and allow for accurate visualization. This proximity enables a magnified
view of the cervix with a consumer-grade light source and camera, making it
less expensive and lighter than a clinical colposcope. The device can also be
connected to a smartphone, tablet or computer.

To supplement these exam tools, Asiedu also developed a machine-learning based
algorithm to help automate classification and identification of normal and
pre-cancerous tissue in the cervix. This algorithm, Asiedu says, has the
potential to enable automated expert-level diagnosis of cervical pre-cancer in
point-of-care settings.

“I am so grateful to the Lemelson-MIT organizers for this prestigious award,”
says Asiedu. “It means a lot when research that is so meaningful and important
to you is recognized as necessary on a larger scale. I am grateful to my
academic supervisor, Dr. Nimmi Ramanujam, labmates, collaborators and everyone
who has supported the development of this technology. We hope that very soon
it will contribute on a global scale to enabling self-testing for cervical
cancer screening.”

The Lemelson-MIT Student Prize is meant to serve as a catalyst for burgeoning
inventors, and prizes are awarded annually to undergraduate teams and
individual graduate students. The award aims to expose winners to technology,
engineering, science, business and investment communities. Graduate students
who receive the award win $15,000 in prize money, with the option of using the
funding to continue to develop their inventions.

The awards will be made at EurekaFest, held June 19-21, 2019 at MIT. To learn
more about the award, visit https://lemelson.mit.edu/studentprize

Check out the Lemelson-MIT video below to learn more about Mercy and her
research:

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

