

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Auto Mechanics Keep Vehicles on the Road in Ghana, But Are They Putting
Themselves at Risk?

May 8, 2017

Duke team collaborates with Ghanaian partners to investigate health hazards in
auto repair industry

_Originally posted on theDuke University Bass Connections website_

Growing up in Ghana, Fred Boadu loved eating the ripe pineapples his
grandmother brought from Asante Juaben, the town where he was born. “We kids
were all fighting for them because they were so sweet,” he recalled. Years
later, on a visit back from the U.S., he was disappointed to bite into a sour-
tasting pineapple.

The seller mentioned that the farmers apply plenty of fertilizer to increase
the yield of their crops. “I knew from the geology of the farming area that
the bedrock is shallow and had very thin soil cover,” said Boadu, associate
professor of civil and environmental engineering. “Too much fertilizer could
be a threat to the groundwater.” That got him thinking about the potential
effects of these farming practices on the environment and the health of
farmers and children, and he organized a DukeEngage summer project on nitrate
contamination in the drinking water supply.

More recently, he turned his attention to the problem of used motor oil, which
gets dumped into the ground in large quantities every year. “In the U.S. if
you go to change your oil, you pay a premium for it to be disposed of
properly, because the government and stakeholders are aware of the
consequences,” Boadu explained. “In Ghana there’s nothing like that.”

The transportation sector is one of the main driver of the economy, Boadu
noted. “There is a huge amount of old imported cars and other transportation
everywhere. Because these are normally very old, they are always breaking
down.” The vast industry for repairing these vehicles is a common career path
for high school dropouts.

In the Ashanti region near the city of Kumasi, an auto mechanic “village”
called Suame Magazine contains hundreds of auto repair workshops. This village
is one of over a thousand such spaces for auto repair in that region alone.
Ghana’s nine other regions are similarly well supplied.

The mechanics work without gloves and dispose of used motor oil by pouring it
into the bare ground. The soil in this area has already been found have high
levels of lead, chromium, iron and manganese. Boadu worried about the impact
on food and water, as well as what this direct exposure might be doing to the
mechanics. “These people were at risk, and therefore we needed to find a way
to assess and subsequently help them.”

In 2016-17 he led a Bass Connections project with Dennis Clements in
partnership with Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology (KNUST) in
Kumasi, Ghana. As part of this year-long research project, Boadu and four
students conducted sample collection and testing with their KNUST partners at
Suame Magazine over winter break. “Everyone had their own interests in the
project and brought their own skills,” said Prathibha Juturu ’17, an
environmental engineering major.

The team spent time with the mechanics and took samples of hair, fingernails
and toenails along with blood pressure, weight and height measurements. These
samples were analyzed at the central lab at KNUST. “So far we’ve seen high
levels of iron and chromium,” Boadu said. “Elevated levels of iron have been
associated with liver disease, cardiac arrest and diabetes, and high levels of
chromium are associated with cancer.” He noted that “the average blood
pressure was very, very high.”

“We found that a lot of the mechanics aren’t taking precautions,” said
environmental sciences major Jason Dinh ’18. “They were unaware that these
used oils had chemicals that would affect their health.

After the trip, the students analyzed and assessed the data to explore any
potential associations between the heavy metals in the samples and blood
pressure. The data will form the basis for an education and awareness
campaign, which Boadu hopes to carry out through a DukeEngage project.
“Awareness is the key,” Boadu said. “The mechanics are mostly high school
dropouts, and we need to find ways to educate them more about what they are
getting into.” He is also interested in partnering with researchers to devise
a practical approach to safely process used motor oil and resell it, thus
incentivizing the mechanics not to throw it away.

As an engineer, Boadu believes in using his knowledge to help society. In
turn, students share in this responsibility. “Ethically it’s always right for
students to use what they’ve learned to help other people,” he said,
“regardless of who they are. And the students really love it.”

“It was one of the most amazing experiences I’ve had at Duke,” said Natalie
Moszczynski ’18, a global health and history major. “My trip to Ghana was one
of the most amazing experiences of my life.”

_Additional support for this project was provided by the Silver Family_ _Kenan
Institute for Ethics_ _Fund in Support of Bass Connections._

## Learn More

  * Watch the video.
  * Explore Bass Connections in Global Health.
  * Find out how to get involved in Bass Connections.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

