

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# An AI Message Decoder Based on Bacterial Growth Patterns

September 23, 2022 | By Ken Kingery

New encryption method uses simulated bacterial growth based on specific
initial conditions to form patterns corresponding to letters

From a box of Cracker Jack to The Da Vinci Code, everybody enjoys deciphering
secret messages. But biomedical engineers at Duke University have taken the
decoder ring to place it’s never been before — the patterns created by
bacterial colonies.

Depending on the initial conditions used, such as nutrient levels and space
constraints, bacteria tend to grow in specific ways. The researchers created a
virtual bacterial colony and then controlled growth conditions and the numbers
and sizes of simulated bacterial dots to create an entire alphabet based on
how the colonies would look after they fill a virtual Petri dish. They call
this encoding scheme emorfi.

The encoding is not one-to-one, as the final simulated pattern corresponding
to each letter is not exactly the same every time. However, the researchers
discovered that a machine learning program could learn to distinguish between
them to recognize the letter intended.

“A friend may see many images of me over the course of time, but none of them
will be exactly the same,” explained Lingchong You, professor of biomedical
engineering at Duke. “But if the images are all consistently reinforcing what
I generally look like, the friend will be able to recognize me even if they’re
shown a picture of me they’ve never seen before.”

To encrypt real messages, the encoder ends up creating a movie of a series of
patterns, each correlating to a different letter. While they may look similar
to the untrained eye, the computer algorithm can distinguish between them. So
long as the receiver knows the set of initial conditions that led to their
creation, an interloper should not be able to crack the code without a
powerful AI of their own.

Give the cypher a try yourself. You can type in anything from your name to the
Gettysburg Address, or even the Christmas classic, “Be sure to drink your
Ovaltine.”

https://www.patternencoder.com/

This research was supported by the National Science Foundation (MCB-1937259),
the Office of Naval Research (N00014-20-1-2121), the David and Lucile Packard
Foundation and the Google Cloud Research Credits program.

“New encryption method uses simulated bacterial growth based on specific
initial conditions to form patterns corresponding to letters.” Jia Lu, Ryan
Tsoi, Nan Luo, Yuanchi Ha, Shangying Wang, Minjun Kwak, Yasa Baig, Nicole
Moiseyev, Shari Tian, Alison Zhang, Neil Zhenqiang Gong, and Lingchong You.
Patterns, Sept. 23, 2022. DOI: 10.1016/j.patter.2022.100590

## Related News

October 09, 2017

### Bacteria Self-Organize to Build Working Sensors

April 22, 2016

### Time Cues Help Keep Humans Looking Human

October 08, 2013

### Growing Bacteria Keep Time, Know Their Place

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

