

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Balogh Wins APS Acrivos Dissertation Award

July 18, 2019

Award recognizes Balogh’s research simulating 3D blood flow through highly
complex geometries

Peter Balogh, a biomedical engineering postdoctoral associate at Duke
University, has won the Acrivos Dissertation Award for Fluid Dynamics from the
American Physical Society. The award recognizes exceptional young scientists
who have performed original doctoral thesis work of outstanding scientific
quality and achievement in the area of fluid dynamics.

Balogh received the award for the dissertation he completed at Rutgers
University in 2018. Working with Prosenjit Bagchi, professor of mechanical and
aerospace engineering at Rutgers, Balogh focused on bio-fluid dynamics. His
dissertation detailed the development of a computational method for simulating
3D blood flow through highly complex geometries such as microvessel networks
and intricate microfluidic devices, including the deformation and dynamics of
each individual blood cell. Using this method, he then simulated red blood
cells flowing through physiologically realistic capillary networks and used
data from the simulations to provide new insight into the physics of blood
flow in such networks of tiny vessels.

At Duke, Balogh works in the laboratory of Amanda Randles, the Alfred Winborne
and Victoria Stover Mordecai Assistant Professor of Biomedical Sciences. His
research is focused in part on modeling cancer cells and their transport
through the body using HARVEY, a state-of-the-art massively parallel
computational fluid dynamics code developed by Randles. He is also
investigating how vascular networks in the body change and restructure in
response to the fluid forces exerted on them, using simulations to replicate
experiments performed by collaborators in the Kamm Lab at MIT.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

