

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Bejan Named 2018 Franklin Institute Award Laureate

November 7, 2017

Awards have recognized accomplishments in science and technology since 1824

Adrian Bejan, the J.A. Jones Professor of Mechanical Engineering at Duke
University, has been named a recipient of the 2018 Benjamin Franklin Medal in
Mechanical Engineering.

Bejan was cited for “his pioneering interdisciplinary contributions in
thermodynamics and convection heat transfer that have improved the performance
of engineering systems, and for constructal theory, which predicts natural
design and its evolution in engineering, scientific, and social systems.”

Bejan joins seven other recipients of the prestigious Franklin Institute
Awards, who join a long list of great men and women whose revolutionary
discoveries and innovations have significantly transformed our world. These
scientists and engineers have made enormous strides in their fields, improving
the lives of billions of people across the world, and paving the way for a
better future.

The Franklin Institute Awards has publicly recognized and encouraged
outstanding accomplishments in science and technology since the Institute was
founded in 1824. The 2018 recipients join those who came before them—including
Nikola Tesla, Marie and Pierre Curie, Thomas Edison, Albert Einstein, Stephen
Hawking, Jane Goodall and Bill Gates—in the Institute’s unparalleled history
of honoring the greatest minds of the last 194 years. To date, 118 Franklin
Institute Awards laureates have also been honored with a Nobel Prize,
including one in 2017.

“Philadelphia has long been known for leading the way in science, technology,
and innovation—from the historic legacy set forth by Benjamin Franklin to the
many great accomplishments and successes of today,” said Larry Dubinski,
President and CEO of The Franklin Institute. “The Franklin Institute Awards
Program brings to light some of the greatest minds of our time, and they are
proudly recognized right here in the birthplace of science and innovation for
accomplishments that will transform our world.”

The Franklin Institute Awards Ceremony and Dinner is the culmination of a
week-long sequence of events and programs designed to shine an important
spotlight on advancements in science and technology, as well as extraordinary
business leadership. In addition to an array of events and symposia throughout
the week, public and educational programs are designed to provide direct and
unprecedented access to the laureates.

On Thursday, April 19, 2018, The Franklin Institute will celebrate the
enormous impact of science, technology, and business leadership by honoring
these pioneers for their critical achievements.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

