

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Adrian Bejan to Receive 2018 Benjamin Franklin Medal

April 16, 2018 | airpl

Duke University professor is the first homegrown Benjamin Franklin medalist

DURHAM, N.C. -- Duke University's Adrian Bejan will receive the 2018 Benjamin
Franklin Medal on April 19.

The Franklin Institute Awards have publicly recognized and encouraged
outstanding accomplishments in science and technology since the Institute was
founded in 1824. Bejan was cited for “his pioneering interdisciplinary
contributions in thermodynamics and convection heat transfer that have
improved the performance of engineering systems, and for constructal theory,
which predicts natural design and its evolution in engineering, scientific,
and social systems.”

“Duke University finally has its first homegrown Franklin Medal laureate,”
said Ken Gall, chair of the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science at Duke. “The Franklin Medal is one of the biggest, oldest and most
coveted honors in science in the United States, and is among the highest
prizes to which all scientists can aspire, including those from mathematics
and engineering. Take, for example, Mandelbrot, Tesla and Edison, who did not
receive the Nobel Prize, but were honored with Franklin Medals.”

Taking place over four days at the Franklin Institute in Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania, the awards celebration includes two separate events dedicated to
constructal theory, including a workshop sponsored by the National Science
Foundation titled "Constructal Theory: After 20 Years of Exploration and What
the Future Holds," and a symposium titled "Constructal Theory: What the Future
Holds," both hosted by Villanova University.

The events will explore Bejan’s constructal theory, which he penned in 1996
and states that for a system to survive, it must evolve to increase its access
to flow. For example, the human vascular system has evolved to provide blood
flow through a network of a few large arteries and many small capillaries.
River systems, tree branches and modern highway and road networks show the
same forces at work. Bejan has used these insights to explain the natural
evolution and design of socioeconomic systems, the vast array of object sizes
found throughout the universe, and the modern airplane, among many others.

Bejan, the J.A. Jones Professor of Mechanical Engineering, is one of seven
recipients of the prestigious Franklin Institute Awards this year who join a
long list of great men and women whose revolutionary discoveries and
innovations have significantly transformed our world. These scientists have
made enormous strides in their fields, improving the lives of billions of
people across the world, and paving the way for a better future.

The 2018 recipients join in the Institute’s unparalleled history of honoring
the greatest minds of the last 194 years, including Nikola Tesla, Marie and
Pierre Curie, Thomas Edison, Albert Einstein, Stephen Hawking, Jane Goodall
and Bill Gates. To date, 118 Franklin Institute Awards laureates have also
been honored with the Nobel Prize, including one in 2017.

“The Franklin Institute Awards Program brings to light some of the greatest
minds of our time, and they are proudly recognized right here in the
birthplace of science and innovation for accomplishments that will transform
our world,” said Larry Dubinski, President and CEO of The Franklin Institute.

The Franklin Institute Awards Ceremony and Dinner on April 19 is the
culmination of a week-long sequence of events and programs designed to shine
an important spotlight on advancements in science and technology, as well as
extraordinary business leadership. In addition to an array of events and
symposia throughout the week, public and educational programs are designed to
provide direct and unprecedented access to the laureates.

# # #

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

