

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Bejan Receives Humboldt Research Award for Lifetime Achievement

March 1, 2019

The Humboldt Research Award is given to outstanding researchers whose
discoveries and insights have had a significant impact

Adrian Bejan, the J.A. Jones Professor of Mechanical Engineering at Duke
University, has been elected to receive a Humboldt Research Award from the
Alexander von Humboldt Foundation.

The award is granted to fewer than 100 researchers each year across all
disciplines. It recognizes academics whose fundamental discoveries, new
theories, or insights across their careers who have had a significant impact
on their own discipline and who are expected to continue producing cutting-
edge achievements in the future. Winners receive a 60,000 Euro prize
(currently about $68,350) and are invited to carry out research projects of
their own choice in cooperation with specialist colleagues in Germany in the
hopes of promoting international cooperation.

Bejan has spent much of his career working with thermodynamics and convection
heat transfer, which have improved the performance of engineering systems, and
on his own original constructal theory, which states that for a system to
survive, it must evolve to increase its access to flow. This insight has
allowed Bejan to predict natural design and its evolution in engineering,
scientific, and social systems.

For example, the human vascular system has evolved to provide blood flow
through a network of a few large arteries and many small capillaries. River
systems, tree branches and modern highway and road networks show the same
forces at work. Bejan has used these insights to explain the natural evolution
and design of socioeconomic systems, the vast array of object sizes found
throughout the universe, and the modern airplane, among many others.

The Humboldt Research Award comes quickly on the heels of Bejan having
received the 2018 Benjamin Franklin Medal, which has publicly recognized and
encouraged outstanding accomplishments in science and technology since the
Institute was founded in 1824.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

