

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Bellamkonda Elected Director of the ASEE Engineering Dean’s Council

April 8, 2020

Two-year appointment will help lead the organization in its role of supporting
engineering education, research and engagement

Ravi Bellamkonda, the Vinik Dean of the Pratt School of Engineering at Duke
University, has been elected to a director position of the Engineering Dean’s
Council (EDC) Executive Board of the American Society for Engineering
Education (ASEE).

The EDC is the leadership organization of United States engineering deans,
comprising approximately 350 members, which represents over 90 percent of all
U.S. engineering deans. The EDC works to support engineering education,
research and engagement in a variety of ways, including by providing vision
and leadership, acting as advocates, partnering with stakeholders and
promoting diversity and inclusiveness.

“In today’s world when we’re grappling with pandemics, climate change, and
issues of privacy and security even as we grow more connected, I think it’s
clear that engineers will not only be called on to develop solutions, but to
think deeply about the ethics, purpose and meaning of our work,” said
Bellamkonda.

“I’m honored to have been elected as a director of the Engineering Dean’s
Council, and hope to further the conversation we’re having at Duke with my
peers about how we can engage a broad and diverse group of people in
engineering education to help develop these important perspectives in
tomorrow’s technology leaders.”

The EDC is led by an executive board of approximately 13 officers and
directors elected by their fellow U.S. engineering deans, who meet three times
a year. Joining Bellamkonda as newly elected directors are John English of the
University of Arkansas and Javier Kypuros of the University of Texas.

Founded in 1893, the American Society for Engineering Education is a nonprofit
organization of individuals and institutions committed to furthering education
in engineering and engineering technology. It accomplishes this mission by
promoting excellence in instruction, research, public service, and practice;
exercising worldwide leadership; fostering the technological education of
society; and providing quality products and services to members.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

