

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Big Ideas on Small Scales with Jay Dalton

February 23, 2023 | Michaela Martinez

As a research and development engineer at Duke SMIF, Dalton helps students,
staff and faculty learn how to use complex tools to develop miniscule
solutions to big problems

Jay Dalton is used to thinking on a small scale. As a research and development
engineer for Duke’s Shared Materials Instrumentation Facility (SMIF), Dalton
spends his days working in a 10,000-square-foot laboratory, where students,
faculty and even members of industry come to him to learn how to use the
complex lab equipment decorating the room. But unlike other labs across Duke,
the tools in SMIF work on a scale thousands of times tinier than most.

Open to all students, faculty and staff at Duke—and researchers across the
triangle--SMIF, along with similar facilities at the University of North
Carolina, Chapel Hill and North Carolina State University, are part of the
Research Triangle Nanotechnology Network, which are all supported by the
National Science Foundation. The systems in SMIF are highly specialized and
allow users to develop tools and conduct research spanning fields including
nanotechnology, biomaterials and biomedical engineering, information sciences,
optoelectronics, sensor technology, and renewable energy.

Using resources in SMIF, users have created and tested microfluidic chips that
can diagnose diseases like Ebola, obtained extremely accurate scans and models
of bones or fossils, and developed silicone arrays that can detect how light
bounces through skin to detect abnormalities like cancer. But these devices
are not the only resources needed to accomplish this work.

“Our team and I teach people how to use these complicated and really expensive
tools,” explains Dalton. “All of the research and development engineers share
areas of expertise over a broad range of technologies, so we can help everyone
whether they’re trying to use a micro-CT scanner or an ion beam milling
system.”

Dalton specializes in a tool called the E beam lithography system, which
involves using a beam of electrons to draw custom shapes on a specialized
surface. These tools can create electronic devices like semiconductors, as
they can produce patterns down to 10 nanometers, which is about 1000 times
smaller than the width of a human hair.

Dalton was familiar with these small scales before he joined Duke’s SMIF more
than 15 years ago, when he worked on computer chips as a process engineer for
Motorola and Hitachi Semiconductors. But in the years since he began at Duke,
Dalton has noticed one big change––SMIF is busier than ever.

“We’ve got 750 registered users for SMIF facilities, and that number grows
each year,” he says. But despite a busier schedule, he is excited to help
students translate ideas into projects.

“When a project starts, a student will come into my office and we’ll go over
the entire project with them to map out what they want, what we can do and how
we can help. We’ll give them guidance and training so they can use the tools
themselves and learn how to run their experiments and develop devices on their
own. We’ve got a great resource for students, and for the research community
as a whole.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

