

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Big Data, Big Insights

July 10, 2013 | by Karl Bates

The new Information Initiative at Duke (iiD) brings together a supergroup of
experts to translate massive data into major breakthroughs—in arenas from
homeland security to human health.

from _Duke Engineering: Leading Research 2013_

We're at a moment in which we seem to have become better at collecting data
than understanding it. Sensors, cameras, computers and smart phones capture
and store an unending torrent of data about human activity via ubiquitous
wireless signals, making nearly everything measurable and identifiable.

## Related Stories

  * Data-based detective work
  * Geometries of data, from molecules to threat detection
  * The art of analysis
  * Probability, not certainty
  * Shaping data
  * Teaching machines to watch TV

Billions of fingers perform trillions of keystrokes and clicks, all of them
leaving traces somewhere.

Every two days now, wired humanity creates 5 exabytes of new data(1018 bytes).
That’s about how much was recorded from the dawn of civilization until 2003.
YouTube’s collection of video grows by 72 hours each minute of the day, double
the growth rate from the previous year.

Thousands of people have had their 3-billion-bit genomes sequenced,and
millions more will follow.

Google chairman Eric Schmidt has said we’re fast approaching an age in which
“everything is available, knowable, and recorded by everyone all the time.”
But for now, it’s a tower of Babel.

There are surely some profound and useful insights buried in this mismatched
mountain of information that could improve public services,homeland security,
environmental stewardship and global health if we could only see the patterns.
But parsing through a boundless sea of incompatible, wildly diverse data sets
will take some extraordinary effort.

Duke is assembling a supergroup of talents to begin making sense of this “Big
Data.”

“We are going to bring the engineering discipline of control into things you
never thought it could be applied to,” said Robert Calderbank, the Phillip
Griffiths professor of computer science, mathematics and electrical and
computer engineering at Duke University. With support from Pratt School of
Engineering Dean Thomas Katsouleas, Provost Peter Lange and many other campus
leaders, Calderbank is leading the launch of the Information Initiative at
Duke (iiD).

The effort is bringing together nearly a hundred faculty and student
researchers from diverse fields and backgrounds into a shared space on the
third floor of Duke’s newly remodeled Gross Hall. They will join forces to
turn “Big Data” into big insights, and start creating the next generation of
thinkers who can carry the data revolution forward.

The initiative draws on Duke’s expertise in Bayesian statistics, image
processing, genomics, remote sensing, wireless devices, social science,
healthcare, signal processing, finance, machine learning,computer science and
a host of other fields.

"There are a group of people here—math, stats, engineering-type people—who
work together already on a wide variety of projects related to big data,” said
Lawrence Carin, the William H.Younger distinguished professor and chair of
electrical and computer engineering (ECE), who helped to launch the new
initiative. The group has already won major grant competitions such as a $3
million Mathematics of Sensing, Exploitation and Execution program through
DARPA, and is also involved in large research programs for the Department of
Homeland Security.

“It’s not something where we said ‘We wish we had a center, let’s make one.’
This initiative formalizes something that already exists,” Carin said.

“These are people who just decided they wanted to get together,” said
Calderbank. “We are really good at this.”

Once assembled, the experts at the iiD will reach out to people from across
campus who have big data problems. One of those researchers is neuroscientist
Ahmad Hariri, who has fMRI brain scans, genetics and questionnaire data on
hundreds of volunteer study subjects. It’s a massive and complicated
collection that requires equally complicated analyses to reveal important
clues about varying responses to life’s challenges that can distinguish risk
and resiliency to mental illness. Working with Carin, statistics professor
David Dunson and others, the big data team is jointly studying the MRI scans,
questionnaire data and associated genetic data as a package to identify
specific patterns connecting genes, brain and behavior to mental illness.

ECE, computer sciences and biomedical engineering professor Guillermo Sapiro
is working with child psychiatrist Helen Egger, chief of Duke’s division of
child and family mental health and developmental neuroscience, to automate the
analysis of hundreds of hours of video of children interacting with their
parents, school peers, teachers, friends and doctors. Egger has enlisted
graduate students to analyze the tapes for various behaviors and telltale
signs of anxiety disorders, but it is extraordinarily labor-intensive,
requiring several hours to code two hours of tape per patient. For their study
to scale up, Egger would like to see how much of the coding could be automated
by Sapiro’s algorithms. Like Hariri, she also has questionnaire data, brain
scans and genetics that need to be mined for larger patterns.

As more kinds and volumes of data are brought into the iiD, social scientists
will be involved to help formulate new questions, says Tom Nechyba, director
of Duke’s Social Science Research Institute(SSRI). The institute is also
moving some of its operations into the second floor of Gross Hall. For
example, statisticians and computer scientists are planning to assemble a
collection that combines census data by ZIP code with anonymized Medicare and
Social Security records, and then the social scientists will help figure out
what questions to ask of it.

“We have the potential to be the best place in the world where information
science meets the social sciences,” Calderbank said.

The space in Gross Hall has been designed with what Carin calls ‘flex space’
to enable scholars to move in for a year or so to work intensively with the
team on a problem and then return to their home unit with new skills and
collaborations.The social scientists, one floor below, are also building a
coffee shop into their space to encourage spontaneous and relaxed
interactions.

“What this initiative hopes to be is the hub of a wheel,” Carin said. “The
spokes are different segments of Duke, including the medical center, the
Institute for Genome Sciences & Policy, Arts and Sciences, neuroscience,
political science, SSRI, and anyone else out there with massive data they need
to have analyzed.”

But for Calderbank and Carin, the iiD is as much about education as it is
about research. “Ask yourself, what sort of people does IBM want to hire?”
says Calderbank. The answer, he thinks, are engaged, socially adept students
who also have killer analytical skills—the sorts of students Duke is already
attracting. “A company with a big data problem wants to be able to talk to
somebody who can listen to their challenges and then build something
quantifiable.” Duke students engaged with real-world problems of big data will
be equipped with the quantitative and communication skills to help them thrive
in the data-driven world, he said.

“The student experience will start with some new gateway courses dealing with
big data in modules to get students excited about the intersections of
information, society and culture,” Calderbank said.“We’re going to have them
navigate our curriculum in a more intentional, purposeful way,” to assemble
the tools they need.

David Dunson said the new initiative is also interested in partnerships with
outside companies. “These companies and researchers have needs; we have
methods. You have a problem, you can come to us and we’ll help you solve it,”
he said. Corporate partnerships may also supply some funding to the iiD and
could create real-world opportunities for Duke students. “The idea is to make
Duke a leader in this field,” through both research and teaching, he said.

“If you want to engage with the world, you’re going to engage around data,”
Calderbank said.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

