

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# It's a Bird! It's a Plane! It's...a Chocolate Drone!

October 18, 2018

Duke students conspired to deliver a sweet gift to a classmate on her birthday

Want to really impress your friend with a birthday gift? How about flying a
drone to her front door that is MADE OF CHOCOLATE!

It can be done, and it has been done, by a team of three Duke undergrads, with
help from a chocolate maker called Chocolove.

About a year ago, mechanical engineering student Anuj Thakkar and a friend got
to talking over coffee. “Wouldn’t it be cool if we had edible drones?” they
wondered for no particular reason. “I don’t know, it was a nice day or
something. I’m not sure how we got there,” Thakkar said.

Over the summer, that goofy idea began to take shape—a somewhat amorphous
shape at first.

“The Jell-O drone was the first one,” Thakkar said. “We tried cheese. We tried
bread. Chocolate was what we settled on.”

Chocolate is moldable, for one thing, making the design process a little
easier. Thakkar, mechanical engineering student Carlo Lindner and chemistry
and neuroscience major Ben Succop started tinkering in earnest. Eventually,
and just in time to bring a smile to their friend Kristine Stanner's face,
they managed to build the body of a fleet of drones out of chocolate.

On Sept. 7, Kristine’s birthday, they flew the drone over to her at the Duke
Smart Home with a Chocolove video crew looking on, and the rest is Facebook
history. She promptly busted a piece off the one-of-a-kind prototype and ate
it.

“Anuj is one of our student workers in the lab,” said Chip Bobbert, service
manager at the Innovation Co-Lab on West Campus, which has 3-D printers and
other rapid prototyping equipment for students. “He’s an engineering student
and always pushes the envelope in terms of interesting ideas. “

“I like to make quirky gifts for my friends,” Thakkar said.

The students made molds with 3-D printing to shape the chocolate fuselage. The
four motors and propellers are off-the-shelf parts, not chocolate, and they
were held together by a frame that runs through the center of the fuselage.

Summertime in North Carolina is not a great time to be working with chocolate.
“The first drone—chocolate was falling from the sky,” Thakkar said. “It was
sort of dripping in flight.”

Their early prototyping was accomplished with cheap, grocery store chocolate,
which unmolded well and gave them reasonable enough results that they were
able to make a demonstration video on a smart phone and pitch the idea to
Chocolove, a Boulder, Colorado maker of all-natural and organic chocolates
which sells products on the Duke campus.

Chocolove enthusiastically said yes, and provided high-quality dark chocolate
in quantity to the team.

More testing ensued, with the team spending long, chocolate-coated days at
Duke makerspaces the Co-Lab and The Foundry. The higher-quality chocolate is
more brittle than the cheap stuff, so the team had to tinker a bit, first with
plastic embedded in the fuselage, and then with strands of sweet vermicelli
that they embedded to give the airframe a little more resilience and flex.

They crashed. A lot. The frame always held, but the fuselage had a tendency to
fracture or tear, which may be why real airplanes aren’t made of chocolate.
The final design ended up being about 200 grams of chocolate.

Thakkar said the students don’t have any ambitions to make their idea into a
company or anything. In fact, truth be told, he’s kind of off chocolate
altogether.

“I got tired of chocolate in the first day of prototyping,” Thakkar said. It
seems there was “a bucket” of product left over on that first day and the
college men felt it couldn’t go to waste.

“No more chocolate!” Thakkar said.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

