

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# BME’s Karen Xu Named Goldwater Scholar

April 2, 2017 | By Michaela Kane

Junior Karen Xu was one of 240 recipients of the award, selected from a field
of over 1200 nominated mathematics, science and engineering students
nationwide.

_Editor’s note: Excerpted from Duke Today_ https://today.duke.edu/2017/04/two-
duke-juniors-named-goldwater-scholars

Karen Xu, a junior in Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering, has been
named a 2017 scholar by the Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in
Education Program. Xu and fellow Duke junior John Lu are among 240 students to
be selected for the highly competitive scholarship.

The Goldwater Scholars were chosen from a field of 1,286 nominated
mathematics, science and engineering students from around the U.S. Intended to
honor the late U.S. Senator Barry Goldwater, the scholarships are designed to
foster and encourage outstanding students who are pursuing careers in natural
sciences, engineering and mathematics. A majority of these students aim to
obtain a PhD, and the one-and two-year scholarships go toward covering the
cost of tuition, housing, and school materials for the year.

Xu, originally from Manassas Park, Virginia, is majoring in biomedical
engineering and minoring in chemistry. During her time in the Pratt School of
Engineering, she has conducted research with Brenton Hoffman, an assistant
professor in the BME department. In addition to her research projects, Xu is
an active member of Females Excelling More in Math, Engineering, and Science,
works as a resident advisor, and plays in the wind symphony on campus. Upon
graduation, she hopes to explore research at the intersection of cell biology
and materials science.

“Karen is, by far, the most talented, driven and creative undergraduate
student I have ever worked with,” Hoffman said.

Outside of her work at Duke, Xu has worked as an intern at the National
Institutes of Health, and at Washington University in St. Louis, where she
collaborated with Samuel Wickline, a professor of medicine, physics,
biomedical engineering, and cell biology and physiology. Xu also participated
in the National Science Foundation Research Experience for Undergraduates at
Northwestern University.

Since the scholarship’s inception in 1989, more than 7,921 students have
received Goldwater Scholarships, including 67 students from Duke. Now, Xu and
Lu, a Trinity College of Arts and Sciences student, can add their names to the
impressive list of Duke scholars.

For a full list of winners and more information about the Goldwater
Scholarship, visit: goldwater.scholarsapply.org.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

