

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# BME Team Takes First Place at HackDuke

October 31, 2017

Jason Liu, Jay Gupta, Faris Albarghouthi and Manav Avlani won first prize for
creating software to pair with a diagnostic tool

Jason Liu, Jay Gupta, Faris Albarghouthi and Manav Avlani won first prize in
the Health and Wellness track during the 2017 HackDuke competition. During the
event, which included more than 400 students from over 20 schools nationwide,
the team was recognized for their work on an automated microarray image
processing software that will improve access to point-of-care diagnostics in
developing areas.

As undergraduate students studying biomedical engineering (BME), Liu, Gupta,
Albarghouthi and Avlani used the hackathon to create software that can be
deployed with a novel diagnostic test they helped develop in the lab of
Ashutosh Chilkoti, the chair of BME. The diagnostic test––called the D4
assay–– is a point-of-care assay that can be inkjet-printed onto glass slides.
After a sample is placed on the side and allowed to sit for a determined
reaction period, researchers then insert the slide into a smartphone
attachment to read the results, which are presented via bright fluorescent
quantum dots against a dark background.

Due to the use of a unique non-stick polymer coating on the surface of the
test, the D4 assay can run sensitive, ELISA-like tests with the speed and
portability of lateral flow tests, making it an ideal platform to use in
resource-limited settings. But despite these advantages, the lack of a fast
and automated image-processing script still limited wide use of the tool.

The BME team addressed this issue during HackDuke by developing an application
to use in tandem with the D4 assay that can successfully detect spot locations
from the quantum dot results, calculate the average fluorescence intensity of
each spot, plot the data, and then compute a graph from which unknown sample
values can later be determined to quantify biomarker concentration. These
advancements both shorten and automate the image-processing capabilities of
their application, bringing it one step closer to being used alongside the D4
assay in clinical field trials.

HackDuke is one of the largest student hackathons in the Southeast, and it
distinguishes itself from similar events by requiring all projects to
accomplish a social or civic good. These projects are sorted into various
tracks, including inequality, health and wellness, education and energy and
the environment.

Check out the story on Duke Today to learn more about the HackDuke event, and
see our previous coverage about the D4 assay to learn more about the novel
diagnostic tool.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

