

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Boadu Named Carnegie African Diaspora Fellow

October 30, 2014

Award will support an outreach program in Ghana in a collaborative effort to
educate citizens and create awareness about the dangers of hydrocarbon water
contamination

Fred Boadu, associate professor of civil and environmental engineering, has
been named a Carnegie African Diaspora Fellow.

The scholar program supports 100 short-term faculty fellowships for African-
born academics and is offered by the Institute of International Education and
funded by a two-year grant from Carnegie Corporation of New York. Recipients
of the award initiate educational projects with the help of faculty at higher
education institutions in Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria, South Africa, Tanzania and
Uganda.

In preliminary work, Boadu found high concentrations of toxic heavy metals and
polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in soils and drinking water around auto-
mechanic repair villages, which are significantly above the maximum
recommended levels. These contaminations are due to the indiscriminate
disposal of used motor oil or paint on bare ground by auto mechanics.

Auto mechanics in these villages are usually less privileged high school
dropouts with little awareness or knowledge about polluting the environment
and its implication on human health. There are tens and hundreds of such auto-
mechanic villages in many cities in Ghana and the whole of Africa due to
increasing human population, urban growth and attendant increased use of motor
vehicles.

This summer, with the program’s support, Boadu will seek to establish
collaborations in Ghana at Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology.
Together with colleagues from the local university, Boadu hopes to use
research to educate the local population about the dangers of contaminating
drinking water by improperly disposing of used paint, motor oil and other
hydrocarbons.

“My goal is to find local researchers, engineers and scientists to work with
and empower them to do something on their own,” said Boadu, originally from
Ghana. “These people are not aware of the problem and must be educated. I have
done this successfully before through a Duke Engage program to educate farmers
about nitrate pollution of drinking water resources. I want to capture the
interest of engineering students hoping to use their engineering education to
make an impact in less privileged worlds with such challenges.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

