

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# The Body on Defense

October 25, 2019

In his lab at Duke, Joel Collier uses synthetic nanomaterials to boost the
body’s natural defenses

When a person gets sick, the invading virus or bacteria often triggers an
immune response, sending a wave of white blood cells to attack the source of
the illness. While the body’s natural defenses can often dismantle the
infection, the immune reaction can sometimes cause more harm than intended.

That’s where Joel Collier’s lab comes in.

Collier, an associate professor in Duke University’s Department of Biomedical
Engineering, creates biomaterials that can help understand and control
adaptive immune responses. Most of the lab’s projects involve using
biomaterials, peptides and proteins to devise immune therapies for a variety
of diseases, ranging from cancer to Crohn’s disease.

“Figuring out how we can design these materials to self-assemble and
appropriately interact with the immune system is a big challenge,” says
Collier. “Every type of immunological cell that interacts with these materials
does so in a different manner, so we have to build our materials in a way that
stimulates the right combination of cells to behave the right way.”

One of the main foci within immune engineering is devising how to induce the
immune system to combat diseases that lack highly protective vaccines, like
HIV, malaria and influenza. To address this issue, Collier and his research
group collaborate with the Duke Human Vaccine Institute to explore how they
can use engineered nanomaterials to improve vaccines.

“Broadly neutralizing antibodies are one of the holy grails of vaccination,
and the folks at the Duke Human Vaccine Institute have spent years refining
their ideas and technologies for raising the best antibodies,” says Collier.
“In collaboration with Genevieve Fouda, Sallie Permar, and Kevin Saunders, we
are arraying these antigens on nanomaterials. HIV, for example, is very
diverse, so you need antibodies that will neutralize as many strains as
possible.”

“We were able to explore this topic using seed funding from MEDx and Duke’s
Center for AIDS Research (CFAR),” says Chelsea Fries, one of the PhD students
in the Collier lab leading this work. “Our group brings new nanomaterials to
the table, providing technology that allows us to control how immune cells
interact with HIV antigens. We hope that the unique architecture of our
materials will promote stronger responses from B cells, which can make
antibodies to fight diverse strains of HIV virus.”

Collier’s lab has also broadened their efforts to focus on non-infectious
diseases like cancer. Collier and Yaoying Wu, a post-doctoral fellow in his
lab, are working with John Sampson, MD, the Robert and Gloria Wilkins
Professor of Neurosurgery in the Duke University School of Medicine, who
studies glioblastoma, a deadly form of brain cancer. Using specific antigens
identified by the Sampson lab, Collier and Wu are exploring how they can use a
synthetic version of their platform to boost the activity of both B cells,
which make antibodies, and T cells, which recognize and kill infected cells
directly, to combat cancer.

In addition to these projects, the Collier lab has zeroed in on a relatively
unexplored research topic: how to use the immune system to fight inflammatory
diseases.

One of the hallmarks of inflammatory diseases is the overproduction of
inflammatory signaling proteins known as cytokines. One of the most important
inflammatory cytokines is a protein called TNF. Currently, deploying
manufactured antibodies that target TNF is the best way to lower its levels.
But this method requires patients to inject themselves regularly with the
antibody, which is expensive, does not work for many patients, and can
eventually stop working.

Instead, Collier and his team are investigating ways to use nanomaterials to
induce the body’s immune system to become an anti-TNF antibody factory itself.
But that is easier said than done, as patients would also need a way to
regulate the amount of antibodies in their system.

“If our idea is successful, you would get an initial dose and then you’d be
able to get a booster far less frequently,” says Collier. “The big challenge
now is learning how to tune the antibody level up, down, or off. But if we can
develop these strategies, we’ve got a whole new way of treating inflammatory
disease, and that’s very exciting. We can also think about targeting other
harmful proteins in the body, so the approach could ultimately have very broad
applicability.”

According to Collier, these neglected frontiers in immunotherapy and immune
engineering are among the most exciting aspect of his group’s research in Duke
BME.

“Most immunotherapy research is focused on cancer and infectious diseases, but
I also like to steer our group to places where few people are looking. I find
that you can have a bigger impact if you can go places where others aren’t,”
says Collier.

“We’re active in the more traditional and competitive areas of vaccine
development, but often I think our biggest long-term potential involves our
least traditional projects. And we’re putting ideas out there, right? We might
get all the way there, we may get part of the way, but putting ideas out there
allows the rest of the scientific community to also run with them.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

