

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# "Body-on-a-Chip" Technology to Explore Colorectal Cancer

November 1, 2017

Collaborative five-year, $2.6 million grant with Cleveland Clinic and Cornell
University will help better understand disease development

_From the Cleveland Clinic_

Cleveland Clinic researcher Emina Huang, M.D., a colorectal surgeon in the
Digestive Disease and Surgery Institute and a staff member in the Lerner
Research Institute's Department of Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative
Medicine, has been awarded a collaborative five-year, $2.6 million grant from
the National Cancer Institute to create innovative models of colorectal cancer
that will enhance understanding of how the disease develops and spreads.

This grant – a collaboration between Cleveland Clinic, Xiling Shen, associate
professor of biomedical engineering at Duke University, and Cornell University
– is the newest project funded by NCI's Cancer Tissue Engineering
Collaborative (TEC) Research Program. The program supports the development and
characterization of state-of-the-art tissue engineered technologies for cancer
research. There are only four other TEC-funded research institutions
nationwide. NCI is part of the National Institutes of Health.

"I'm very excited to lead a project that brings together some of the top
surgeons, researchers and biomedical engineers in their respective fields,"
said Dr. Huang. "Colorectal cancer affects millions of adults in the United
States. In some cases, the five-year survival rate is less than 13 percent. In
order to develop effective treatment and prevention therapies for such a
serious and complex disease, and deliver them to the patients and families who
so desperately need them, we'll need to work collaboratively across
specialties and disciplines. With this new project, I think we're well on our
way."

Dr. Huang and her team will work to develop three leading-edge models of
colorectal cancer that will help researchers uncover the role inflammation,
messenger RNA (transcriptome) and epigenetics play in the spread, or
metastasis, of colorectal cancer. What is unique about these models is that
they will all use human tissues, both from the colon and other sites
throughout the body. Studying colorectal cancer using cells from people will
maximize the applicability of findings and may speed the time of discovery.

This project is also innovative in that other conditions aside from colorectal
cancer—including hypoxia, or lack of oxygen, and altered glucose levels—are
reflected in these models. This will help mimic the extreme complexity of the
colorectal cancer microenvironment. Additionally, the models are scalable and
will allow for comparison between various cell types and combinations within
and between the three models.

While Dr. Huang is the principal investigator for the project, each
collaborating organization will take the lead on developing one of the three
models. Dr. Huang's lab will develop what is called an organotypic model. They
will remove native cells from human colons, taken from resected colons and
cancerous lesions, and repopulate them with new cells, including healthy cells
as well as various types of cancer cells. Studying how the different classes
of cells respond will help researchers understand the roles inflammation and
cellular invasion and differentiation play in metastasis.

Michael L. Shuler, the Eckert Professor of Engineering at Cornell University,
will develop the second model that will utilize new body-on-a-chip technology.
This technology will use human cells to create tiny, organ-like structures
that simulate the function of a human colon. These structures will be placed
on a chip, which mimics the body and explicitly connects the colon to a meme
of the liver.

The team at Duke University - led by Professor Xiling Shen, Department of
Biomedical Engineering - will validate the two previously described models in
an animal metastasis model, with the goal of better understanding how the
immune system may play a role in shaping colorectal cancer metastasis.

Dr. Huang co-directs Lerner Research Institute's Center of Excellence in Colon
Cancer Metastasis Research. This program brings together top scientists with
front-line physicians to speed the translation of lab discoveries into real
benefits for patients. The center is currently working on several projects,
including examining colon cancer's cellular microenvironment, reversing the
effects of angiogenesis, as well as understanding how genetic changes may make
colon cancer cells more aggressive in some individuals and how those changes
may be reversed. This project is the newest addition to the center's
impressive portfolio.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

