

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Bold New Brain Research in Neuroengineering, Brain-Inspired Design and
Individuality

August 12, 2015

Duke researcher receives one of 16 new awards totaling $13.1 million as part
of the National Science Foundation’s support for integrative, fundamental
brain research and The BRAIN Initiative

How does sleep affect individual memories? How do brain cells connect to form
meaningful networks? How is a word like “chair” conceptualized in the mind?

To support potentially transformative research in neural and cognitive
systems, the National Science Foundation (NSF) has awarded 16 grants to
multidisciplinary teams from across the U.S., including Duke University’s
Yiyang Gong.

Each award brings together scientists and engineers from diverse fields to
investigate a brain-related mystery. The awards fall within two themes:
neuroengineering and brain-inspired concepts and designs, and individuality
and variation. Each provides up to $1 million over two-to-four years.

“These new projects will explore big, exciting ideas in neuroscience, to push
hard against the boundaries of what we know,” said Betty Tuller, NSF program
director in the Social, Behavioral and Economic Sciences Directorate, who will
help oversee the awards.

Gong’s research project is titled, “Real-time optical readout and control of
population neural activity with cellular resolution.”

Understanding neural function requires examining specific subsets of the vast
numbers of neurons in the brain. Recently developed optogenetics tools, such
as optogenetic stimulation and calcium imaging, deliver engineered genes to
targeted neural populations and use light to manipulate or measure neural
activity.

However, current optogenetic tools lack the spatiotemporal resolution to
causally study many individual neurons in parallel on fast time scales. Gong’s
project will try to integrate the design and implementation of optical and
genetic tools to greatly refine the scale of investigating neural activity.
The end goal is to allow researchers to directly explore how neural activity
patterns of many individual neurons in one brain region drive downstream
neural activity.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

