

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Boyd, Bursac and Nightingale to Be Inducted into Medical and Biological
Engineering Elite

March 6, 2015

Lawrence Boyd, adjunct professor of biomedical engineering and associate
director of the Center for Entrepreneurship and Research Commercialization,
Nenad Bursac, the Rooney Family Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering
and Cardiology, and Kathryn Nightingale, the James L. and Elizabeth M. Vincent
Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, have been selected for
induction into the American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering’s
(AIMBE) College of Fellows.

Boyd was cited for sustained contributions to medical device development in
orthopaedic applications and innovative approaches to promoting and educating
student entrepreneurs. He is an international leader in orthopaedic medical
device innovation, with over 50 U.S. patents and pending applications for
medical devices and related procedures.

Bursac was cited for outstanding contributions to the fields of somatic- and
stem cell- based therapies for cardiac and skeletal muscle disease. His
research focuses on the application of stem cells and tissue engineering
methodologies in experimental in vitro studies and cell and tissue replacement
therapies.

Nightingale was cited for pioneering the development of Acoustic Radiation
Force Impulse elasticity imaging, which is now employed world-wide to stage
hepatic fibrosis. Her research continues to focus on using the technology—as
well as ultrasound—in the modeling of normal and diseased tissue.

The College of Fellows honors the top two percent of medical and biological
engineers in the country, including only the most accomplished and
distinguished engineering and medical school chairs, research directors,
professors, innovators, and successful entrepreneurs.

A formal induction ceremony will be held during AIMBE’s 2015 Annual Meeting at
the National Academy of Sciences Great Hall in Washington, DC on March 16,
2015. Nightingale, Boyd and Bursac will be inducted along with 151 colleagues,
who make up the AIMBE College of Fellows Class of 2015. For more information,
please visit aimbe.org.

AIMBE’s mission is to recognize excellence in, and advocate for, the fields of
medical and biological engineering in order to advance society. Since 1991,
AIMBE‘s College of Fellows has lead the way for technological growth and
advancement in the fields of medical and biological engineering. Fellows have
helped revolutionize medicine and related fields in order to enhance and
extend the lives of people all over the world. They have also successfully
advocated for public policies that have enabled researchers and business-
makers to further the interests of engineers, teachers, scientists, clinical
practitioners, and ultimately, patients.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

