

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Breaking into the Auto Industry: Q&A with Duke Alum Mark Reuss

December 5, 2016

New General Motors "executive champion" to Duke, Mark Reuss, talks about his
new position and getting into the auto industry

_Mark Reuss F’90, executive vice president of global product development for
General Motors, was recently named the “executive champion” for the company’s
relationship with Duke University. A graduate of the Fuqua School of Business
who also holds an undergraduate degree in mechanical engineering, Reuss will
work to build relationships with Duke in areas such as research collaboration
and student recruitment. Below are some thoughts from Reuss about his new
position, how General Motors will be reaching out to Duke engineers, and
advice on what Pratt students can do if they want to work in the auto
industry._

**What is your new role with Duke and why is General Motors interested in
growing its relationship with the school?**

Duke has a tremendous amount to offer in the type of student that it
graduates. Since Pratt is a smaller engineering school, students tend to have
more personal involvement with what they’re studying and with their
professors.

I’m a Fuqua alum, so I’m very in tune with what Duke is and what Duke has to
offer. My role is to get the word out about what General Motors is today, what
it’s going to be in the future and what the current opportunities are for
students. I’ll come to campus multiple times during the year and talk to
students about what we’re doing, answer any questions, and also follow up on
internships and people we have coming to the company.

**This fall, the GM Foundation donated $70,000 to support Duke Engineering
student teams—the Duke Robotics Club, Duke Electric Vehicles, and Duke
Motorsports—as well as for the development of a new design curriculum. Why
invest in those things?**

These kinds of initiatives give students experience that you can’t get
necessarily in a traditional course. It’s gained by applying what you’re
learning in spaces like electrification, robotics and the actual making of a
vehicle. Those skills are so important, and those programs are typically
filled with the people that we want. That’s why they’re very important to
fund—to give those students the opportunities to have that experience.

**When you’re looking at new recruits to bring in, what are some other things
you look for?**

What we want in a student coming out of an engineering curriculum is the
ability to self-start, take chances and try things. We want them to use the
theoretical experience in a practical way without constant supervision and
direction. The innovation that goes along with creativity in engineering is
very high on our list.

**Are there particular disciplines in engineering that General Motors is
interested in?**

One of the things I work on every day is the constant removal of the silos
between traditional engineering disciplines. A fundamental knowledge of how
all of the traditional systems—mechanical, electrical, software, etc.—work in
a vehicle is very important, but the integration of those is what’s really
key. I can’t think of one system on a car that is purely one or the other
anymore.

The integration of those to operate together smoothly is desperately needed
and sometimes the only way that you really get that is through an experience
or through a course that brings disparate fields together. In the Duke
Engineering environment, you have the ability to be better than anybody else
in some of those areas I think.

**Can you tell us a little about how the automotive industry is changing with
the increasing focus on autonomous vehicles, electric vehicles and other new
technology?**

It’s probably the biggest change since the transformation of horse and
carriage to the automobile. It’s that big. It has the potential to change
every person’s life, and that’s how we treat it. The piece that is the biggest
technical challenge right now is taking precision mapping of existing roadways
and infrastructure and combining it with the data that is taken in from the
car as it navigates those traditional roadways. This must be done outside of
the car because we can’t carry supercomputers in each one. Fusing those
different sets of data in the cloud, and integrating that knowledge in a safe
way into the electromechanical systems of the way the car actually
operates—that’s what we’re working on. There are systems in cars that are put
on top of a vehicle. But unless you have deep integration with the vehicle,
it’s always going to be a top hat commanding systems it may or may not
understand.

**A lot of Duke students are interested in entrepreneurship. What would you
say to a student about the opportunities to be inventive and entrepreneurial
within the culture of a larger, more established company?**

When someone asks me to tell them about my career, I say which one? I’ve had
nearly a dozen, and they’ve been in different places around the world. They’ve
been in marketing, sales, engineering, program leadership and programming
robots in a plant. Being able to do all of those different things and not
leave a company I think is second to none.

Where else can you go and work with Cruze Automation, for instance, which we
just purchased, and Lyft, and have deeply integrated autonomous vehicles
running on your tech center campus in Detroit within eight months? You need to
have the funds and resources to do that, and it costs millions of dollars. If
you are really interested in changing the world, a larger company is the kind
of place I think can be very attractive, because you’ll have the opportunity
to do it.

**We talk a lot about changing the world as something that engineering gives
people the capability to do. Given that our school has many engineers with a
strong interest in solving environmental issues, what can we do to make cars
better for the environment?**

We made the commitment to this quite a while ago when we made the strategic
decision to make our own battery chemistry and to develop our own
electrification motors. With those two things in our cells in the Volt, we
have the lowest cell cost in the industry at about 145 dollars per kilowatt-
hour. The next frontier of that is to get cell costs close to $100, which is
the threshold that puts battery costs and propulsion of electrification in the
same ballpark as the internal combustion engine.

But it’s going to take a car that solves two more barriers besides cost. They
have to have a duty cycle and range that fits a single vehicle capability in a
household. So we need engineers who can focus on overcoming those barriers of
practicality and use.

**How does engineering training prepare you to be a top leader?**

The fundamental problem-solving skills you learn as an engineer are so
important and I also think the work ethic that engineers have typically coming
out of school is very high. And generally speaking, I think engineers offer
transparency, honesty and integrity, and problem-solving capabilities that I
think are admired throughout the business community. I think those are pretty
core of what you learn at a good engineering school, and I’m sure you have it
here.

**Any further advice for current students?**

This is the same thing I tell my kids and our employees. I think that winning
is important, but winning the right way is very important in whatever you do.
Also, that there are a lot of things you can’t control. So you do your job and
focus on doing the best you can, and good things will happen if you’re at a
good company. People see it and they recognize it. You get opportunities that
you never would have imagined. And by the way, doing what you really want to
do and being happy at it typically translates into success. Those are things
that you can control and focus on.

_For more information about upcoming recruitment events and corporate
partnerships, contact Duke Engineering’s_ _Office of Corporate and Industry
Relations_ _._

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

