

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Brinson Named Chair of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science at Duke

April 5, 2019

Internationally recognized expert in soft matter L. Catherine Brinson has been
appointed as the next chair of Duke University's Department of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science

L. Catherine Brinson, an internationally recognized expert in soft matter, has
been appointed as the next chair of Duke University’s Department of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science (MEMS). She will begin her term on June 1,
2019.

Brinson, who joined Duke in 2017 as the Sharon C. and Harold L. Yoh, III
Professor in MEMS, brings extensive experience in academic leadership to her
new role, including service as associate dean for academic and professional
initiatives in engineering and as department chair of mechanical engineering
at Northwestern University.

“I am thrilled that Cate Brinson will be the next chair of our dynamic and
fast-growing MEMS department,” said Ravi V. Bellamkonda, Vinik Dean of
Engineering, in announcing the appointment. “Cate is not only a national
leader but has a thoughtful, ‘can-do’ attitude. I am looking forward to her
working closely with our faculty, staff and students as well as her fellow
department chairs to shape not only the future of MEMS but of Duke Engineering
as we look to our bright future with our new engineering building and other
exciting programs.”

> “Cate is not only a national leader but has a thoughtful, ‘can-do’ attitude.
> I am looking forward to her working closely with our faculty, staff and
> students as well as her fellow department chairs to shape not only the
> future of MEMS but of Duke Engineering as we look to our bright future with
> our new engineering building and other exciting programs.” - Ravi
> Bellamkonda

Brinson’s research combines computational models, data science and physical
experiments to lay the groundwork for developing new materials for
applications ranging from cell phones to biomedical devices. She has won
numerous awards, including the ASME Nadai Medal and the Humboldt Foundation
Friedrich Wilhelm Bessel Prize, and is currently the PI of the NanoMetaMine
project, a $5-million NSF-funded national consortium focused on building a
data-driven framework for discovery of new polymer nanocomposites and
structural metamaterials.

Prior to joining Duke, she served as associate dean for academic and
professional initiatives at Northwestern University’s McCormick School of
Engineering, where she coordinated development and promotion of a diverse
array of research centers and consolidated leadership of eight professional
master’s programs. She previously served for six years as chair of
Northwestern’s Department of Mechanical Engineering, where she led the
department through growth in faculty and research expenditures, started a now
flourishing departmental master’s program, promoted design curriculum across
the school, and led development for the first endowed lecture in the ME
department.

Brinson takes the reins as Duke MEMS chair from Professor Ken Gall, who has
served in the role since 2015. “Under Ken’s leadership, Duke MEMS has grown in
strength and reputation across many dimensions,” said Bellamkonda. “He has
recruited amazing faculty--including Cate--and accelerated the department’s
ascent as a national leader in both mechanical engineering and materials
science.”

Over the past four years, Duke MEMS has hired nine outstanding new faculty
(more than half of them female), contributing to its teaching and research
excellence, particularly in the areas of designed and soft materials.
Meanwhile, applications to the Duke MEMS PhD program have soared from 178 to
304, with nearly a 50% increase in students matriculating, while the number of
master’s students matriculating has grown by nearly fourfold to a record 44
this year. The department has also risen in the national _U.S.News & World
Report _rankings, currently ranking in the top 25 in the country in mechanical
engineering.

As associate director for MEDx (Medicine and Engineering at Duke), a role in
which he which he will continue, Gall helped forge new ties between Duke MEMS
and the School of Medicine. He has also played an active role in working with
undergraduates, including mentoring several dozen undergraduate research
assistants, serving as an instructor for Pratt’s new First-Year Design course,
mentoring groups in senior design, and teaching the sophomore-level
Introduction to Materials course.

**To learn more about education and research in Duke MEMS, visit**
**mems.duke.edu** **.**

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

