

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Broad-Scale Genome Tinkering With Help of an RNA Guide

August 5, 2013 | Kendall Morgan

Duke Institute for Genome Sciences & Policy

DURHAM, N.C. -- Duke researchers have devised a way to quickly and easily
target and tinker with any gene in the human genome. The new tool, which
builds on an RNA-guided enzyme they borrowed from bacteria, is being made
freely available to researchers who may now apply it to the next round of
genome discovery.

The new method also has obvious utility for gene therapy and for efforts to
reprogram stem or adult cells into other cell types – for example, to make new
neurons from skin cells.

"We have the genome sequence and we know what all the parts are, but we are
still in need of methods to manipulate it easily and precisely," says
assistant professor Charles Gersbach, of Duke's Pratt School of Engineering
and the Duke Institute for Genome Sciences & Policy. "That's where this
engineering tool comes in."

Gersbach's team had already been in the business of tinkering with the genome
using specially engineered proteins, but the process was difficult and slow.
It was hard to imagine how to scale it up for the investigation of hundreds or
even thousands of genes in the way genome scientists really wanted to do.
"That's where the conversation always broke down," he says.

Then, he and post-doctoral researcher Pablo Perez-Pinera found out about an
RNA-guided protein called Cas9 found in a Streptococcus bacteria. The bacteria
rely on Cas9 as part of an adaptive immune system to defend themselves against
infection by viruses, cutting out a piece of the viral DNA and inserting it
into their own genome for recognition of future infection. Other scientists
then showed that those immune system components could function inside human
cells.

Gersbach's team recognized the RNA-guided nature of this system as a potential
game-changer for the gene engineering work they do.

In the study now reported in Nature Methods on July 25, Gersbach and his
colleagues modified Cas9 to turn genes on rather than cut them. They showed
that their tool could turn on very specific genes in human cells. They went on
to demonstrate use of the tool to modify targets of interest for fighting
inflammation and activating gene networks for making neurons, muscle cells or
stem cells. They showed they could induce a gene known to alleviate symptoms
of sickle cell disease, too.

In other words, it works, and it works on genes that matter from a clinical
perspective. In principle, the RNA-guided tool could be used to modify or
influence any gene anywhere in the genome.

Gersbach now hopes to apply the new tool along with collaborators in the IGSP
to investigate the functions of thousands of sites across the genome. With
tissue engineer Farshid Guilak, a professor of engineering and orthopaedic
surgery, he will continue to work on its application in the fight against
inflammatory and autoimmune diseases such as arthritis.

"This simple and versatile tool makes it easy for anyone to do this," Gersbach
says.

The work was funded by the National Institutes of Health, the National Science
Foundation and the American Heart Association. Other collaborators on the
study include D. Dewran Kocak, Christopher Vockley, Andrew Adler, Ami Kabadi,
Lauren Polstein, Pratiksha Thakore, Katherine Glass, David Ousterout, Kam
Leong, Greg Crawford and Tim Reddy.

CITATION: "RNA-Guided Human Gene Activation by CRISPR/Cas9-Based Engineered
Transcription Factors," Pablo Perez-Pinera et al. Nature Methods, July 25,
2013. DOI: 10.1038/NMETH.2600

_Originally published
athttp://www.genome.duke.edu/press/news/post.php?s=2013-07-25-broadscale-
genome-tinkering-with-help-of-an-rna-guide_

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

