

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Calculating the Risk of COVID-19 Exposure

October 7, 2020 | Miranda Volborth

App lets users set their own parameters, make better-informed decisions

Lucas Rocha Melogno and his fiancée had been planning their June 2020 wedding
for two years. One hundred thirty guests would be attending from all over the
U.S., as well as from Honduras, Ecuador, and Melogno’s home country of
Bolivia.

But Melogno, a PhD candidate in the lab of civil and environmental engineering
professor Marc Deshusses, has spent much of the past four years learning how
exposures to aerosolized pathogens near open sewers influence the risk for
contracting disease, and the thought of gathering 130 of his nearest and
dearest into an indoor reception area during a pandemic wasn’t sitting well
with him.

The Deshusses Lab focuses on developing engineering solutions to global health
challenges such as poor sanitation. In working to implement these solutions,
Melogno has witnessed first-hand the necessity of tools that empower
stakeholders to consider interventions in a risk assessment framework. He has
focused on using his coding skills to translate complicated models of risk
assessment into apps that are easy for people outside of academia to use. In
fact, he had already launched one such app that assessed risk from exposure to
aerosolized particles around open sewers, in collaboration with colleagues at
the University of Notre Dame. When he came across a model from the University
of Colorado Boulder’s Jose Jimenez representing the factors that influence the
risk of contracting COVID-19, Melogno saw an opportunity to turn the
spreadsheet into another tool that could help users visualize and understand
the risks associated with indoor gatherings.

“Aerosols linger in the air. They come out of the mouth and nose when people
breathe, speak, or sing—all the things that would happen at a wedding,” said
Melogno. Anything smaller than a hundred microns can be inhaled and deposit in
your nose, throat or lungs, he explained. The risk of inhaling these virus-
laden aerosols indoors depends mainly on four factors: how close you are to
the infected person, the length of exposure, the size of the occupied area,
and the rate of ventilation in the area.

> The risk of inhaling these virus-laden aerosols indoors depends mainly on
> four factors: how close you are to the infected person, the length of
> exposure, the size of the occupied area, and the rate of ventilation in the
> area.

As he built the app in collaboration with Deshusses, Duke School of Medicine’s
Gregory Gray, and Notre Dame’s Katherine Crank and Kyle Bibby, Melogno used
his own wedding as a test case. He thought his guests would probably stay
anywhere from one to four hours in the 500 cubic-meter space that he had
reserved for the big event. He guessed the ventilation system would change out
the air in the room 1-3 times per hour, which is typical for a room that size.
And knowing the approximate ages of his guests and the activities they might
be doing—laughing, dancing—made it possible to set advanced parameters within
the app and estimate how quickly the guests would be breathing.

Additional calculations performed behind the user interface account for a
fraction of the aerosolized particles settling where they can no longer be
inhaled, and another fraction losing viability. The resulting dose—the amount
of virus required to cause an infection—is theoretical as of now, because no
animal studies have yet confirmed the numbers. And, the app assumes the people
in the simulation are all wearing masks and practicing physical distancing and
good hygiene, stressed Melogno.

So, what did the app calculate the risk to Melogno’s guests to be? Zero point
zero-zero-nine, meaning that if there was one infected guest at the reception
of 130 people, it was likely that one other guest would receive a high enough
dose of the SARS-CoV-2 virus to become infected, based on the parameters he
had set.

To some, that risk may sound low. But who were the couple willing to put in
harm’s way? One of his groomsmen? The father of the bride?

“The level of risk was higher than we were willing to tolerate,” Melogno said.

The couple postponed their wedding until October. Instead of a large
gathering, they plan to host 20 people at a backyard reception, after a
streamed Mass.

Melogno recently launched the app and shared a link on Twitter, which was
quickly reshared several hundred times. The app has logged more than one
hundred active users at the time of this story’s publication. Though Melogno
is not sure exactly who the users are, he thinks the app could be particularly
helpful to engineers, space planners and public health professionals who are
working to better understand health risks and communicate information to the
public.

“I think the app has a lot of potential, as it can easily be adapted to many
different kinds of exposures or contexts," said Deshusses. "For example, it
may be helpful in making informed decisions about re-opening establishments
like bars, movie theaters and gyms.”

“Being at the end of my PhD, it’s encouraging, because I realize my work
matters,” added Melogno.

More News from Duke CEE

## Related News

April 10, 2020

### CEE Bioaerosol Researcher Joins Epidemiology Team

October 26, 2018

### Duke Startup Converts Fecal Sludge To Clean Reusable Water

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

