

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# A Campaign About Wellness, A Lesson in Leadership

March 31, 2020

Wellness4Researchers is a campaign run by three Duke graduate students and a
postdoctoral fellow, offering ways to maintain mental and physical health

From Duke Graduate School

Looking for ways to maintain your mental and physical health in the time of
coronavirus and social distancing? You could try some no-equipment workouts.
Or visit a virtual museum. Or take some free online courses.

Those are just a few of the wellness resources you will find from
Wellness4Researchers, a social media campaign run by three Duke graduate
students—Shreyas Hegde (MEMS), Courtney Johnson, and Filippo Screpanti—and
postdoctoral fellow Daniel Luo.

> “We had to quickly rethink our project. That’s when we came up with
> activities you can do at home, because our work habits are still very
> relevant and stress has increased a lot in these uncertain times.”

The quartet created the campaign as their team project for the Emerging
Leaders Institute (ELI), an eight-week, in-depth professional development
program offered by The Graduate School. ELI participants work in teams to
brainstorm ideas for enhancing the graduate student and postdoc experience at
Duke, and then develop a project around one of those ideas. Along the way,
they hone their skills in a variety of areas, such as teamwork, communication,
and professional adaptability.

The Wellness4Researchers team decided to tackle the important issue of
wellbeing. They settled on the idea of a social media campaign to raise
awareness about wellbeing by having fellow graduate students and postdocs
share information about the wellness activities they participate in on campus.

“The initial aim was to go to student wellness events and ask people to post
pictures on Instagram and such,” said Shreyas, a Ph.D. student in mechanical
engineering and materials science.

Their first tweet went out on March 6. Four days later, Duke announced it was
severely curtailing campus activity to help contain the spread of COVID-19.
The sudden and escalating restrictions forced the team to adapt in real time.

“One of the biggest problems that came out right away is when you are confined
and you are asked to practice social distancing, many of these activities are
no longer possible,” said Screpanti, a Ph.D. student in Romance Studies. “We
had to quickly rethink our project. That’s when we came up with activities you
can do at home, because our work habits are still very relevant and stress has
increased a lot in these uncertain times.”

Click here to learn more about how they adapted their project.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

