

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Carin Named New Vice President for Research with University-Wide
Responsibilities

August 7, 2019

Carin's new role is part of Duke's commitment to establish a new, integrated
leadership structure for research to provide clear and consistent policy
guidance, oversight and accountability for all research

_From Duke Today_

Lawrence Carin, a Duke engineering professor and one of the world's leading
experts on machine learning and artificial intelligence, has been named Vice
President for Research at Duke University and will lead a new university-wide
Office of Research, officials announced Wednesday.

The duties of Carin's previous role, Vice Provost for Research, will be folded
into this new office and he will report jointly to Provost Sally Kornbluth and
Chancellor for Health Affairs A. Eugene Washington.

Carin, who has served as Duke's vice provost for research since 2014, will
continue his current role of leading research strategy and development for
schools reporting to the Provost. He will add university-wide responsibility
for research policy, coordination with federal research sponsors, compliance,
scientific integrity and technology transfer. In FY 2017 (the last year for
which data are available), Duke ranked eighth among all U.S. universities in
research expenditures at more than $1.1 billion.

"Larry Carin is a distinguished scientist, a respected leader, and a skilled
executive," Provost Kornbluth said. "Over the past year, he has recognized
both our enormous strengths as a research institution, and the vulnerabilities
that come from having such a decentralized system. We have great confidence in
his ability to guide the whole Duke research enterprise into the future."

"This new structure brings Duke in line with the best practices at our peer
institutions," Chancellor Washington added. "More importantly, it fosters the
kind of interdisciplinary collaboration and leadership that is essential for
Duke to maintain our advantages in a very competitive environment."

The new Office of Research includes the current offices of campus Research
Development, Export Controls, Human Subjects Protection, Licensing and
Ventures, Postdoctoral Services, Research Initiatives and Research Support.
Christopher Freel, currently associate vice provost for research, will now
serve as associate vice president and principal deputy to direct the various
programmatic units.

In addition, the Duke Office of Scientific Integrity (DOSI) will move from the
School of Medicine to have university-wide responsibility for scientific
integrity. Its charge includes advancing scientific integrity, Services and
Training (ASIST), conflict of interest, misconduct in research, and the Duke
Office of Research Initiatives (DORI), as well as the institutional research
incident response team.

Geeta Swamy, MD, who previously served as vice dean and associate vice provost
for scientific integrity, has been appointed associate vice president for
research and will continue to lead DOSI. She will continue to serve as vice
dean in the School of Medicine and oversee the clinical and research quality
management programs.

Carin's new role is part of Duke's commitment to establish a new, integrated
leadership structure for research to provide clear and consistent policy
guidance, oversight and accountability for all research. This change was
endorsed by the external Advisory Panel on Research Integrity and Excellence
created by President Vincent E. Price following the settlement of a high-
profile scientific misconduct investigation earlier this year.

The members of the Advisory Panel included chair Ann M. Arvin, professor of
pediatrics and microbiology and former vice provost and dean of research at
Stanford University, Edward M. Stolper, William E. Leonhard Professor of
Geology and former provost of Caltech, and Barry S. Coller, David Rockefeller
Professor, physician-in-chief and vice president for medical affairs at
Rockefeller University.

"My focus will be on culture change, in particular creating a sense of
ownership within the entire institution with regard to research," Carin said.
"I look forward to working with our faculty and leadership to further elevate
our commitment to excellence in all aspects of research, including
development, funding, pre- and post-award management, integrity and
accountability."

Carin is the James L. Meriam Distinguished Professor and former chair of the
Department of Electrical Engineering. His early research was in the area of
electromagnetics and sensing, but over the last fifteen years he has moved to
applied statistics and machine learning.

The co-author of more than 400 academic papers, Carin's work has touched on
such diverse fields as artificial intelligence, bomb detection, video
analysis, neuroscience, cancer, infectious disease, voting behavior and music.
He has formed several companies, and regularly serves on the program committee
for such conferences as Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS) and
the International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML). Carin earned B.S.,
M.S., and Ph.D. degrees in electrical engineering at the University of
Maryland, College Park.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

