

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Catherine Brinson: Finding Hard Answers for Soft Matter

August 25, 2017

New faculty member Catherine Brinson is developing tools and conducting basic
research that will provide a springboard for the field of soft matter

Catherine Brinson will join the faculty of Duke University’s Department of
Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science beginning September 1, 2017. Part
of an expanding core of experts at Duke Engineering focused on soft matter,
Brinson combines computational models, data science and physical experiments
to lay the groundwork for developing new materials for applications ranging
from cell phones to biomedical devices.

Soft matter encompasses an expansive variety of materials that deform when
stressed including biological tissue, liquids, polymers, gels and more.
Despite their obvious macroscale differences, they respond in similar ways to
physical stimuli, due to their underlying macromolecular network structure.
Understanding these complex materials provides unexpected opportunities for
collaboration between fields. But because of the intrinsic difficulties of
studying soft materials, including their time-dependent behavior, reactivity
and complex disordered microscale structure, the physics and chemistry
governing their behavior remain poorly understood.

Brinson has spent the past 25 years working to close these knowledge gaps. One
example of her work is an effort to create a massive data resource to help
engineers and materials scientists design nanoparticle-reinforced polymers.

“It only takes a one-percent addition of nanoparticle ‘fairy dust’ to
significantly alter the physical properties of polymers,” said Brinson, who
joins Duke’s faculty from Northwestern University. “If you want to make a
composite material with a specific suite of properties, you may believe it’s
possible, but as of now you wouldn’t have a good idea of where to start.”

Brinson’s database, created in collaboration with colleagues at Northwestern
University and RPI, incorporates findings from thousands of papers published
in the field and provides the analytical tools needed to make sense of the
vast wealth of information. Researchers will be able to easily find data on
how nanoparticles affect the properties of polymers in easily navigable charts
and plots, all linked to the original sources.

And with comprehensive data on thousands of polymer-nanoparticle systems,
Brinson and her collaborators are developing data-mining programs to explore
trends and correlations that would have otherwise never been spotted.

“This tool provides great potential for discovery,” said Brinson, who has
already helped build a prototype database that she hopes to slowly open to the
community for beta testing beginning this fall. “Understanding how
nanoparticles affect different properties would move the field into more
purposeful design.”

Brinson also does experimental work to learn more about soft matter. Using
atomic force microscopy, she measures and maps the mechanical properties of
these materials on an atomic scale.

These experiments have found that dispersed nanoparticles influence atomic
scale behavior hundreds of nanometers away due to the material’s chemical and
macromolecular structure. That’s like a single bit of dried basil affecting
the taste of an entire plate of spaghetti. By carefully studying how property
gradients radiate from their source nanoparticles, Brinson is trying to
understand the physics behind their transformative powers.

Such understanding could have tremendous value for any industry that uses
polymers. Tomorrow’s airplanes could have a hull made from a seamless
lightweight durable nanoparticle-polymer hybrid that does not require a
metallic mesh to protect against lightning strikes. Cell phones could have
responsive touch screens that won’t break. Researchers could design biomedical
devices like bone screws or orthopedic implants with defined optimal
properties. Possible design targets include mechanical strength, conductivity
and advanced applications such as time released medications and environmental
responsiveness.

Brinson’s research even has direct applications to medicine outside of new
devices.

“The mechanical properties of biological tissue often change in a diseased
state—cancerous tissue is often stiffer, for example,” said Brinson. “Finding
and measuring these relationships could lead to new ways to diagnose diseases
with extremely small cellular samples or even _in vivo_ methods.”

It’s for opportunities to collaborate with physicians on projects such as
these that Brinson is moving her laboratory to Duke. Besides the excitement
she feels for the school’s growing emphasis on soft materials research, the
medical school is a short walk from her future office. And Duke has a proven
track record of taking biomedical discoveries from the laboratory into a
clinical setting.

“It’s exciting to be a part of what is happening in soft materials at the
engineering school,” said Brinson. “I think the people flocking to Duke in
this area combined with the close proximity to the medical school will easily
foster new collaborations for my laboratory.”

Brinson is also excited to work with Duke undergraduate students. After
helping to reshape Northwestern’s undergraduate engineering curriculum, she
sees a lot of correlations with the direction Duke’s curriculum is taking.

“It’s important to take a holistic approach to engineering education. You have
to combine creative and artistic experiences with the quantitative basic
sciences and engineering to enable students to find solutions that aren’t
found in textbooks,” said Brinson. “I think Duke is on the right track with
the design experience they’re planning to feature during freshman year. You
have to foster creativity and get your hands dirty to think like an engineer.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

