

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# CEE PhD Student Selected for DOE Research Program

April 17, 2019

Natalia Neal-Waltham will pursue research on mercury contamination at Oak
Ridge National Laboratory

Natalia Neal-Walthall, a PhD candidate in environmental health engineering, is
one of 70 graduate students across the nation named to the most recent cohort
of the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE)’s Office of Science Graduate Student
Research (SCGSR) Program.

Open to graduate students in a range of scientific and engineering fields,
SCGSR supports awardees to conduct part of their dissertation research at a
host DOE laboratory. Neal-Walthall, a third-year doctoral student whose
advisor is Associate Professor Heileen Hsu-Kim, will be conducting research on
mercury contamination with the Earth Sciences Group at Oak Ridge National
Laboratory.

Working with DOE scientists Eric Pierce and Dwayne Elias, Neal-Walthall will
be employing DNA-based methods to better understand how microbial communities
in biofilms affect mercury transformation in the environment as she analyzes
samples from Duke’s Center for the Environmental Implications of
NanoTechnology (CEINT) research facility.

“It’s a tremendously important opportunity for me because mercury really is a
contaminant that has to be studied from a biogeochemical perspective, meaning
that water chemistry, geochemistry, and microbial community all affect the way
it behaves in the environment and how well it can bioaccumulate,” noted Neal-
Walthall. “At Duke, I work in a geochemistry lab so I wouldn’t ordinarily get
to approach this topic from a molecular biology perspective. The experience at
Oak Ridge will allow me to broaden the scope of my dissertation and really
work in an interdisciplinary space long-term.”

Neal-Walthall has a bachelor’s degree in civil and environmental engineering
from the University of New Orleans. For several years prior to graduate
school, she worked as a structural engineer, consulting on and designing
offshore wind farms.

SCGSR awardees were selected from a diverse pool of university-based graduate
applicants, and their selection was merit-based.

“These graduate student awards prepare young scientists for STEM careers
critically important to the DOE mission,” said U.S. Secretary of Energy Rick
Perry. “We are proud of the accomplishments these outstanding awardees have
already made and look forward to following their achievements in years to
come. They represent the future leadership and innovation that will allow
American science and engineering to excel in the 21st century.”

Neal-Walthall was selected as part of SCGSR’s 2018 Solicitation 2 cycle. The
SCGSR program is currently accepting applications from doctoral students for
its 2019 Solicitation 1 cycle (deadline 5 p.m. ET on May 9).

More News from CEE

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

