

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Cells Dancing to Harmonic Duets Could Enable Personalized Cancer Therapies

March 24, 2022 | By Ken Kingery

Acoustic tweezers manipulate particles and cells with complex sound waves

Mechanical engineers at Duke University are using two electronic “voices”
singing a harmonic duet to control suspended particles and cells in new and
valuable ways. Their prototype device can form and rotate a single-layer
crystal from a group of particles, create arbitrary shapes with a given number
of particles, and move pairs of biological cells together and apart again
hundreds of times.

These abilities could serve a wide variety of fields, such as materials
science, soft condensed-matter physics, biophysics, life science and medicine.

For example, the researchers have shown that the device can selectively pair
two individual cells and measure their adhesion forces -- a feat that doctors
could use to determine treatment for individual cancer patients. Because of
the dexterity and gentleness of the acoustic device, the researchers have
named it the Harmonic Acoustics for Non-contact, Dynamic, Selective particle
manipulation (HANDS) platform.

The results appear online on March 24 in the journal Nature Materials.

“The separation of paired particles or cells has been a major target in the
field of acoustic manipulation for many years,” said Tony Jun Huang, the
William Bevan Distinguished Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science at Duke. “Our HANDS platform is the first method of separating paired
objects, which provides a way into cell-cell interaction studies that are
needed extensively in biophysics studies and drug discovery.”

Acoustic tweezers are a rapidly developing field that uses various physical
phenomena of sound waves to gently manipulate particles or cells suspended in
liquids without touching them. Some examples pinch particles between two sound
waves and adjust the waves’ phase or origination point to move them. Others
create patterns by combining two static standing sound waves together to
separate particles into different formations, such as a grid.

Now, researchers have added a new layer of complexity to these devices by
introducing piezoelectric melodies and harmonies into the setup. Where
previous devices create static standing waves, the HANDS platform prototype
uses a function generator to create complex standing waves that change
rapidly. One could think of it as, rather than the machines singing a single
note, they’re now hitting the rapid highs and lows of a complicated opera with
two singers.

The new device works by placing sound-creating transducers on each side of a
small square chamber filled with liquid. These four transducers work in step
with those directly across from them, forming two pairs. One creates patterns
in the chamber horizontally and the other vertically. The interaction of these
two complex, quickly changing sound wave patterns creates dynamic abilities
never before demonstrated within the field.

“I simulated how these waves might combine to manipulate the particles in the
chamber and then ran experiments to see actual results,” said Shujie Yang, a
postdoctoral associate in the Huang laboratory. “It took a long time and many
trials, but finally the simulations became good enough to start matching the
results. And once the simulations were accurate, I could begin predicting new
abilities.”

In the paper, Yang demonstrates several novel abilities of the harmonic duet
acoustic tweezers. In one experiment, he shows that the HANDS platform can
flatten and pattern a 3D cluster of 24 particles into a crystalline structure.
It can spin these flat formations like a plate on a fingertip.

Moving to individual particle manipulation, the paper demonstrates particles
coaxed into three different formations bearing a striking resemblance to the
letters O, D and K. The device then pairs together dozens of single particles
like teenagers at a school dance and shows that it can pull each pair apart
and put them back together again more than a thousand times.

In the final demonstration, Yang shows that the device can select a single
pair of cells out of a lineup, push them together and pull them back apart. He
then uses this ability to measure the adhesion forces at work between two
cells touching one another.

According to the researchers, this is the most exciting ability of the HANDS
platform, as it could allow detailed tests for personalized medicine.

“I am thrilled about the capabilities of this platform, which is as gentle as
a mother’s hands,” said Luke Lee, professor of medicine at Harvard Medical
School, who is a co-leader of the research. “Gentle and sensitive mother’s
hands allow us to establish the foundation of quantitative cell biology and
translational precision medicine.”

“For example, we can systematically study T-cell interactions with cancer
cells in a high-throughput manner and obtain precision cell-cell interaction
forces,” Lee said. “This could help doctors find the most effective and
specific cell therapy for patients as personalized precision medicine.”

This research was supported by the National Institutes of Health (R01GM141055,
R01GM132603, U18TR003778, UG3TR002978) and the National Science Foundation
(ECCS-1807601, CMMI-2104295).

CITATION: “Harmonic Acoustics for Dynamic and Selective Particle
Manipulation,” Shujie Yang, Zhenhua Tian, Zeyu Wang, Joseph Rufo, Peng Li,
John Mai, Jianping Xia, Hunter Bachman, Po-Hsun Huang, Mengxi Wu, Chuyi Chen,
Luke P. Lee, and Tony Jun Huang. Nature Materials, March 24, 2022. DOI:
10.1038/s41563-022-01210-8

## Related News

September 10, 2020

### Sound Waves Replace Human Hands in Petri Dish Experiments

July 26, 2018

### Soundwave-Surfing Droplets Leave No Traces Behind

January 26, 2017

### Sound Waves Create Whirlpools to Round Up Tiny Signs of Disease

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

