

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# A Better Way to Measure the Stiffness of Cancer Cells

February 28, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

Laser technique developed by Adam Wax peers through individual cells to gauge
stiffness with unprecedented speed

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have discovered a way to detect signs
of cancer on a cell-by-cell basis using two lasers and a camera.

Several medical devices currently in use and in clinical trials around the
world look for increases in cellular stiffness as an indicator of cancerous
tissue. These devices, however, rely on readings from many cells clustered
together within the body and cannot operate on a cellular level.

In a study published online Feb. 28 in the Biophysical Journal, researchers
describe a technique for assessing an individual cell’s stiffness using
patterns that appear within its internal structure. The results show that the
more organized its innards, the stiffer the cell.

In previous work, Adam Wax, professor of biomedical engineering at Duke,
showed that a cell’s internal structures shift as fluids flow around its
exterior.

“Think of a cell as a large Jell-O mold with a lot of fruit suspended in it,”
said Wax. “If you blow on it really hard with compressed air, everything is
going to move in the direction of the air a little bit.”

Wax also showed that he could calculate cellular stiffness by measuring the
amount of that shift. This discovery had many advantages over traditional
methods of measuring the rigidity of a single cell. For example, no physical
contact with the cell was required and measurements took much less time.

“Traditional approaches like atomic force microscopy take all day just to
prepare a single sample,” said Will Eldridge, a PhD student in Wax’s lab and
first author of the paper. “Using a moving liquid to measure shear flow only
takes 30-40 minutes to image a group of cells.”

Still not satisfied with that timetable, Wax and Eldridge tried to find a
visual metric that could do the same job in less time. In the new paper, they
show that the amount of disorder found within a cell’s internal structures
directly correlates to its stiffness.

To measure cellular disorder, the researchers shine a laser through a cell and
compare it to a second, unobstructed beam. The differences in the amount of
time it takes for the two lasers to travel through the sample are then
analyzed to produce a picture, revealing just how disordered the cell’s
internal structures are.

To prove their idea worked, the group measured these “phase disorders” in five
different types of live cancer cells just before measuring their stiffness
using the already proven “Jell-O mold” technique. As hoped, the two metrics
were highly correlated.

“The speed of this technique is only limited by the size of your camera’s
field of view,” said Eldridge. “You could potentially measure hundreds of
individual cells in a matter of seconds.”

More work is needed to determine the exact relationship between the two
measurements, but Wax is hopeful that the technique could be translated into a
new biomedical device for cancer screening.

“It’s widely known that cellular stiffness is an indicator of cancer, but
there’s no viable diagnostic tool that can use that knowledge on a cellular
scale,” said Wax. “With this technique, I can see a path to creating a high-
throughput system that could quickly and easily screen for cervical,
esophageal or colon cancer—anywhere you could take a tissue scraping.”

This work was supported by the National Science Foundation (CBET 1604562).

CITATION: “Optical phase measurements of disorder strength link microstructure
to cell stiffness,” W.J. Eldridge, Z.A. Steelman, B. Loomis, A. Wax.
Biophysical Journal, Feb. 28, 2017. DOI: 10.1016/j.bpj.2016.12.016

###

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

