

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# From Cell Cultures to Mass Markets

October 22, 2018

Mike Lynch's design course adds an entrepreneurial flair to the standard
design formula

"These are not projects you can start the night before they are due."

This is advice Mike Lynch gives to students in his design course, Biotech
Design 1 & 2\. And he intends for his words to be taken literally: When it
comes to growing cells for his design projects, you have to measure time in
days and weeks rather than hours before a deadline.

Lynch, an assistant professor of biomedical engineering at Duke University,
started his biotech design course in 2014, the same year he arrived at Duke
after launching a successful company, OPX Biotechnologies. Recognizing that
many students wanted wet-lab experience, Lynch created the course to allow
students to design novel molecular compounds while experimenting with the
standard design process.

“Biotech design is a lot different than medical device design or other two-
semester design courses. We’re making drugs that will affect a broad group of
patients and will take significant time and investment for development,” says
Lynch. “So in addition to learning what their drug will need to do
functionally, my students need to learn about commercial requirements for
their products, and they’re doing all that while learning how to design,
build, test and then repeat as needed.”

While the wet lab component alone distinguishes his course from other design
offerings, Lynch also challenges his students to approach solutions with an
entrepreneurial mindset.

After selecting a project, students spend the first semester of the course
researching commercial opportunities for their new drug, therapy or
diagnostic. During this time they assess the potential market size for their
product, examine the competitive landscape, and study the patent application
process to learn whether their idea warrants patent protection.

The approach can yield real-world results, as for the team of juniors and
seniors whose “CBTEch” project sought to demonstrate a cheaper and more
effective way to create medical cannabi-noids using _E. coli_.

They didn't complete their project before the year ended, but ended up being
the first to demonstrate the biosynthesis of a key intermediate in cannabinoid
production in E. coli,” says Lynch. “And that had a very good business model,
so there’s a push to continue that project in the future.”

Other student projects have included a rapid HIV diagnostic test and a drug
developed with Duke gastroenterologists that could help maintain ammonia
levels in the blood to prevent he-patic encephalopathy in patients with liver
failure.

While those projects could follow a more traditional commercial route, some
students find that their designs––while useful––don’t support a viable
business model.

One group attempted to create a gel-like depot that would slowly release drugs
for tuberculosis af-ter being injected into a patient’s arm. Many TB patients
in the developing world have issues com-pleting their medications––some simply
stop tak-ing the treatment once they begin to feel better, while others don’t
have consistent access to treatment. Both issues can lead to resistant forms
of the bacte-ria and rebound infections. By creating a depot to slowly
dispense TB drugs over a month, the students hoped to simplify the treatment
process.

“This team quickly learned that there wasn’t a good business model for their
design, so instead they went back and looked at philanthropic opportunities in
the global health sphere because they felt strongly that this was a project
worth exploring,” says Lynch.

As the course attracts more students, Lynch is looking forward to growing the
program to best serve the BME design community.

“The entrepreneurial aspect of the course makes it more difficult and time-
consuming, but I think it’s also more rewarding,” says Lynch. “These students
get into the design process from day one, and there are always new and
exciting projects, which makes it fun to teach and a great experience for
students.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

