

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Chakrabarty Appointed to DARPA Microsystems Exploratory Council

June 24, 2022

Chakrabarty brings expertise in 3D integration of heterogeneous technologies
and hardware security, AI accelerators and domain customization to the council

Krishnendu Chakrabarty, the John Cocke Distinguished Professor of Electrical
and Computer Engineering at Duke University, has been appointed to the Defense
Advanced Research Project Agency (DARPA) Microsystems Exploratory Council
(MEC), for a term of three years.

The MEC was established in 2017 with the aim of providing DARPA’s technical
offices with continuous assessments of the state of microelectronics
applications as they relate to national security issues.

Chakrabarty will bring his expertise in 3D integration of heterogeneous
technologies and hardware security, as well as artificial intelligence (AI)
accelerators and domain customization, to the council.

“The cross-cutting research areas in microsystems technology that the council
will explore is tremendously exciting,” said Chakrabarty. “I’m eager to see
how the council’s future explorations might benefit from my group’s knowledge,
and also to enrich our pioneering research at Duke with the expertise of other
council members who have widely divergent focal areas.”

He plans to encourage the MEC to explore ways to achieve 3D integration and
packaging of an array of advanced computing technologies including non-
volatile memories, AI accelerators, sensors, microfluidics, and optics.
Chakrabarty said the council can specifically study how AI-driven system
architectures can empower next-generation cyberphysical and secure
microsystems—an area that has gained huge traction at Duke in the past year
with the launch of the NSF AI Institute for Edge Computing Leveraging Next
Generation Networks, known as “Athena,” which is headquartered at Duke
Engineering.

Chakrabarty’s research group at Duke has worked on several DARPA projects over
the years, on topics ranging from wireless sensor networks to 3D integrated
circuits. He is currently leading research on design-for-test of monolithic 3D
integrated circuits based on carbon-nanotube transistors, as part of the DARPA
Electronic Resurgence Initiative.

## Related News

November 26, 2018

### Chakrabarty Named Fellow of the AAAS

May 18, 2017

### Chakrabarty Wins 2017 IEEE Circuits and Systems Society Technical
Achievement Award

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

