

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# A Chat with Dean Simmons

January 29, 2015 | By Petek Sener

Duke Engineering legend retiring after 37 years of service

_Petek Sener is a first-year Pratt student and projected BME major._

_Connie Simmons is the Associate Dean for Undergraduate Affairs at the Pratt
School of Engineering. She started working at Duke University in 1978 and has
held various positions over the years. She was hired by Aleksandar S. Vesic
(dean of engineering from 1974-1982) and has served under four university
presidents and six deans. After 37 years at Duke, she will retire in February
2015._ DukEngineer _spoke with her about her memories and legacy of service to
students, faculty and staff._

**What do Pratt students come to you to talk about?**

There are many different reasons students come to me, from help with their
class schedules to personal problems or academic difficulties. A common theme
is first-year students who are making the transition from high school to
college. A lot of the students who come here were at the top of their class,
making straight As, then they come to Duke and get that first C and are
devastated, because for those students getting a C is like getting an F. So I
try to tell them that there is a transition period—one C is not going to
destroy everything and they can still graduate with honors. Some students also
come here without a habit of studying because they didn’t need to do so in
high school. Others might study for an exam but don’t get as good of a grade
as they expected and start wondering if they really belong here. To those
students I reaffirm that we wouldn’t admit a student that we thought would not
be successful. During those moments I just try to build their self-confidence
and advise them to use all the great resources that are available at the
university for personal and academic support.

I also see a lot of upper-class students who come to the office for advice
about career planning, study abroad, pre-medicine or balancing academic work
with other endeavors. Often times we have students trying to do too much—for
example, two majors plus a minor and/or a certificate and either pre-medicine
and/or studying abroad! Other students who come to me are dealing with
personal and psychological issues, or having academic challenges or need to
find summer employment. And some come just to share their excitement about
being selected as a Pratt Fellow or inducted into Phi Beta Kappa or receiving
a post-graduate award like a Rhodes, Marshall, Churchill or Fulbright. I hear
a little bit of everything!

**What should we look for in the next undergraduate dean?**

I think you need someone who will give sound advice, but is also dependable
and caring. A math professor may call us saying that they haven’t seen this
one student for a couple of days and are wondering if something is going on.
You need someone who will contact that student and ask “Are you OK? Do you
need to come in and see me?” Likewise, if a student is in the hospital, they
should visit them and tell them, “I will e-mail your professor, I will let
them know. You just focus on getting better.” I have always tried to let
students know that I care, and would hope that the next upcoming dean will be
just as caring. Of course there are times when you have to be a little firm.
Students don’t like to hear the word “no” but the fact of the matter is
sometimes you have to say it. For instance, if a deadline has passed, we have
to tell the student that we’re sorry but no exception can be made for them,
because in doing so, there are 1,200 other students that would not be able to
have the same option. So you have to have a balance of being concerned and
caring but also fair to all students.

**What is your favorite part of your job?**

I have just really enjoyed working with students. Earlier this week I talked
to an alumna whose son is graduating from Duke this year, and I told her that
I am just as happy as she is. I see students go through four years of college,
and some of these students go through big struggles. At their graduation, I am
just as happy as the parents because I have been there with the students
through this time! When you see a student through four years of college and
then 20 or 25 years later their son or daughter is here at Duke, that’s very
special. Overall, this job is just very rewarding.

**What is the biggest change you have observed during your time at Duke?**

Well, Duke has grown so much over the years. I’ve been here long enough to see
the changes in the outline of the campus as new buildings were built. I
remember when some of the buildings that I can see from my window had to be
approved by the Trustees! There has been a great increase in the student body.
In 2005 when Kristina Johnson was the dean, the enrollment for engineering
students was increased by about 200. I have also seen more diversity, with
more female and minority faculty and students. I still remember when the first
female faculty member and the first African-American faculty member started!
The programming for the school has grown as well. When I first started working
here Duke didn’t even have minors. Now we have so many organizations—HackDuke
and many more programs that we never use to have. It is exciting to have
witnessed all that change over the years.

**When you first started working at Duke as a secretary did you had any idea
how far you would go?**

Definitely not, I had no idea that I would be where I am today. When I first
started working here I had my degree and my plan was to work here for about
three years. The secretarial job was a unique opportunity because I got to
work with Associate Dean Marion Shepard. I would talk to students who came in
and try to help them out with their problems. I took on many different
positions over the years but with all of them I was interacting with students,
which I really enjoyed. I had great bosses and my colleagues here at Pratt are
amazing. So it followed that Pratt just became my family. I am very thankful
and appreciative for the opportunities that all the deans I have worked under
have given me.

**What are you going to miss about Duke the most?**

I am truly going to miss interacting with and helping students. After 37 years
I have a lot of good memories, which I am grateful for. Also, I will miss the
faculty and my colleagues in Pratt and across the university. Did you know Dr.
G* was a student when I was here? He was the first student to do a double
major with electrical and mechanical engineering. So when students ask about
double majoring with ECE and ME, I tell them go see Dr. G. Of course it’s not
only Dr. G, there are other faculty members who were students when I started
working, like Dr. [John] Board, Dr. [Craig] Henriquez and Dr. [Dan] Sorin.
Seeing them become graduate students and then go on to become professors is so
exciting as I get to witness their growth. That’s just another example of why
this has been an amazing journey.

_*Associate professor of the practice Michael Gustafson_

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

