

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Teaming Up with Microsoft in Durham and in the Cloud

July 10, 2018 | by Karl Leif Bates

Microsoft Research facility to be added to Chesterfield Building

_From Duke Today  
_

Duke University is announcing a new collaboration with Microsoft in several
areas including research and cognitive services using Microsoft Azure, a cloud
computing platform.

To support the effort, Microsoft is committed to building a dedicated
"Innovation Hub" in the Chesterfield building in downtown Durham, where it
will be near researchers from Duke's schools of medicine and engineering and
the Duke Clinical Research Institute.

Duke already uses Microsoft cloud technology, but the new collaboration will
accelerate the use of Azure to advance healthcare research, educational
programs and university operations. Duke researchers will be applying machine
learning algorithms to difficult problems in gene expression and electronic
health records, for example.

"We can leverage all of the work they have done and we can build on it," said
Lawrence Carin, Duke's vice provost for research and professor of electrical
and computer engineering. For example, Microsoft's efforts to improve
radiology with data science can be built upon and advanced by Duke
radiologists and data scientists, he said.

Azure has in place the data protections needed to maintain health records
privacy, Carin said. Azure cognitive services would include speech-to-text,
natural language processing and machine vision.

Cloud computing offers several advantages for the researchers and staff. It
has essentially limitless data storage and processing power, along with the
flexibility to apply the right computing resources to any given problem.

By being connected directly with Microsoft Research in this fashion, Duke's
researchers also can be assured of having up-to-the-minute access to the
latest innovations in artificial intelligence, for example. The collaboration
is campus-wide, and Duke students and staff will not have to be in Microsoft's
suite at the Chesterfield to take advantage of the Azure cloud services.

Tallman Trask, III, Duke's Executive Vice President, was the architect behind
the relationship. "I was lucky to be in Seattle more than 30 years ago when
Microsoft was a startup there," said Trask. "It's great that Microsoft and
Microsoft Research have recognized not only the value that can come from
research collaborations with Duke, but also the rise of Durham into a tech
hub."

"With Microsoft's support, we will also enable graduate students in research
labs to access the rich set of Microsoft Azure services," Carin said. "The
computational power that this will bring to our research endeavor is immense."

Microsoft's VP of US Education, Margo Day commented, "We are excited to launch
a collaboration with Duke University that can bring the power of Microsoft
Azure to some of the world's most challenging research questions."

Microsoft's space in the Chesterfield will be completed in the fall of this
year.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

