

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Putting the SE Back in Silicon Electronics

March 7, 2023

Researchers from across the southeastern US gathered at Duke University to
answer the CHIPS and Science Act’s call to reinvigorate the nation’s silicon-
related research and manufacturing abilities

More than 40 years ago, the state legislature of North Carolina created the
Microelectronics Center of North Carolina (MCNC) to be a catalyst for
technology-based economic development throughout the state. And it worked. For
two decades, the area was a leader of computer innovation, home to behemoths
in the industry such as IBM and Lenovo.

While many of the tech giants eventually moved much of their infrastructure
out of the state and the region’s strengths in the semiconductor industry
declined in the 2000s, the foundations remain intact. It doesn’t take much
digging to discover faculty and researchers across the southeastern United
States who tie back to the early days of the MCNC—and many of those threads
run through Duke University.

Now, with the opportunities provided by the passage of the CHIPS and Science
Act of 2022, those ties are being reinforced and combined with emerging
technologies such as neuromorphic and quantum computing to revitalize the
computer technology innovation and manufacturing infrastructure across the
region. On February 10, leaders in a wide variety of these key computing
technologies met on the campus of Duke University in a symposium organized by
the Pratt School of Engineering and the Duke Office for External Partnerships
to explore ways in which their individual expertise can be combined to meet
the challenges laid out in the CHIPS and Science Act.

> “We must be prepared to take advantage of this opportunity. Not just as
> individual researchers and institutions, but as a multidisciplinary and
> multi-stakeholder group that can spur growth in the semiconductor industry
> for the entire southeastern region and the United States as a whole.”
>
> **jerome p. lynch** | vinik dean of Engineering

“Last year, the U.S. Congress passed the CHIPS and Science Act, a monumental
piece of legislative action that substantially invests in our semiconductor
and science ecosystems in the United States,” said Jerome P. Lynch, Vinik Dean
of Engineering at Duke in opening remarks. “We must be prepared to take
advantage of this opportunity. Not just as individual researchers and
institutions, but as a multidisciplinary and multi-stakeholder group that can
spur growth in the semiconductor industry for the entire southeastern region
and the United States as a whole.”

With aspirations of grandeur, such an effort would require many dedicated
experts working in academia, industry, research, non-profits and
government—and that’s exactly who showed up to answer the call to action. Two
primary webs were woven throughout the day, one focused on AI hardware and the
other on quantum computing. And cutting across both were additional threads
focused on workforce development, in which universities continue to play an
enormous role.

Speakers detailing their research initiatives included:

  * Paul Franzon of North Carolina State University, who talked about his work
    on chiplets, a modular approach to building processors being pursued
    commercially by both AMD and Intel
  * Alicia Klinefelter of NVIDIA, who talked about the company’s existing
    presence in North Carolina and leading work in areas such as free and open
    architectures that promote a standard way to design deep learning
    inference accelerators and tile-based accelerator architectures with
    distributed memory
  * Swarup Bhunia of the University of Florida, who talked about maintaining
    security on various types of emerging hardware
  * Garrett Rose of the University of Tennessee, who talked about neuromorphic
    computing, which mimics the way neural pathways are strengthened or weaned
    based on inputs over time as a way to learn to process data
  * Sherine Obare, dean of the Joint School of Nanoscience and Nanoengineering
    at North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University, who led a
    panel discussion on workforce development
  * Chris Monroe and Jungsang Kim of Duke University, who reviewed the unique
    research and teaching abilities being developed at the Duke Quantum Center
  * Samuel Graham, Jr., dean of the University of Maryland’s A. James Clark
    School of Engineering, who, in tandem with Duke’s Christopher Monroe, has
    long been a voice on Capitol Hill pushing the national conversation around
    the importance of quantum computing

Also on full display was Duke Engineering’s widespread expertise and
facilities in many areas key to the future of the semiconductor industry.
Despite the school’s relatively small size, it features many of the research
and development capabilities and infrastructure usually reserved for much
larger institutions. For example, the Duke Quantum Center in downtown Durham
is a unique facility focused not only on achieving quantum supremacy on an
industrial scale, but on engaging users and teaching students how to carry
today’s visions on into the decades to come.

> “Duke University is at the forefront of critical areas like quantum
> computing, AI hardware and secure edge computing. With constant innovation
> in semiconductor manufacturing, we'll be able to take these technologies to
> the next level. We're really excited to be part of this wave of innovation.”
>
> **hai "helen" li** | chair, duke electrical & computer engineering

Duke’s semiconductor-related portfolio covers full-stack capabilities, from
the discovery and validation of new materials, to testing the potential uses
of new materials in semiconductor devices, to mapping how new devices might
fit together into new architectural frameworks while still being able to
interface with existing technology.

A big piece of those capabilities comes from the Shared Materials
Instrumentation Facility (SMIF)—a shared resource available to researchers
from all schools and departments within the university, as well as to users
from other universities, government laboratories and industry. Since its
establishment in 2002, SMIF has provided access to advanced materials
characterization and fabrication capabilities, promoting interdisciplinary
collaboration. SMIF's full-time staff and engineers ensure that all
fabrication and characterization equipment are well maintained, resulting in
excellent up-time. It is a core facility in the RTP region for semiconductor
innovation, encompassing manufacturing, devices and processes.

For example, Duke works on 1D and 2D nanomaterials for nanoscale transistors,
neuromorphic devices and printed electronics. This includes work on more
environmentally sustainable manufacturing approaches using these
nanomaterials.

Duke also has an entire cohort focused on discovering new ways of networking
and integrating disparate processing power to achieve incredibly fast results
through the concept of edge computing through the NSF-funded AI Institute for
Edge Computing Leveraging Next Generation Networks, or “Athena.”

> “It’s not just about doing the right thing. There’s simply no way we can
> fill the jobs these manufacturing efforts will require if we don’t broaden
> participation.”
>
> **Tracy Doaks** | President, MCNC

“Semiconductors are the backbone of every disruptive technology we can think
of,” said Hai “Helen” Li, Clare Boothe Luce Professor of Electrical & Computer
Engineering and chair of the same department. “Duke is at the forefront of
critical areas like quantum computing, AI hardware and secure edge computing.
With constant innovation in semiconductor manufacturing, we'll be able to take
these technologies to the next level. We're really excited to be part of this
wave of innovation.”

Several of Duke’s faculty also spoke about the Research Triangle
Nanotechnology Network, a collective of researchers focused on transformative
nanotechnology research, discovery, education, commercialization and workforce
development. Such organizations are examples of the existing regional
grassroots connections that are ready to be leveraged into a strong coalition
for implementing aspects of the CHIPS and Science Act.

The research remarks were followed by a panel discussion around workforce
development spearheaded by representatives from the National Science
Foundation, North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University, Duke
University, and MCNC. The panelists importantly noted that scaling up the
region’s and nation’s manufacturing abilities will take much more than
research—it will take a concerted effort to engage with communities that do
not typically pursue tech manufacturing jobs for cultural and historical
reasons.

> "While we’re all hoping to earn trust and future funding, at the end of the
> day, we’re also here to serve society and make the world a better and safer
> place based on the next generation of computing technologies that will
> emanate from CHIPS-funded work.”
>
> **JEROME P. LYNCH** | VINIK DEAN OF Engineering

“It’s not just about doing the right thing. There’s simply no way we can fill
the jobs these manufacturing efforts will require if we don’t broaden
participation,” said Tracy Doaks, President of MCNC. “Some parents don’t want
their kids to go to college because they’re afraid they won’t come back. The
household barriers to broadband, healthcare, and jobs are all connected. A
more holistic view that includes developing healthy, supportive households to
reach talent in the more rural areas. Because we can create all the cutting-
edge research and partnerships with industry that we want, but if we don’t
have a trained workforce to translate that work and push it out into the
world, then the whole effort won’t be successful.”

These discussions and budding collaborations were further strengthened by the
presence and participation of important stakeholders in the national CHIPS and
Science Act effort. Representatives from the National Science Foundation and
the North Carolina Defense Technology Alliance were on hand. Lunch featured a
keynote address by Tim Greeff, the president and CEO of NSXTL, the
organization tasked with the monumental challenge of implementing much of the
$280 billion program, who recognized that Duke and the Southeast region are
well-positioned in terms of research, innovation, industry presence and
workforce.

“This country needs its best and brightest to come together to bring it back
to the forefront of cutting-edge research, computational innovation and
manufacturing,” Lynch said at the end of his opening remarks. “So while we’re
all hoping to earn trust and future funding, at the end of the day, we’re also
here to serve society and make the world a better and safer place based on the
next generation of computing technologies that will emanate from CHIPS-funded
work.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

