

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Launches Engineering Scholars Program with $15M Gift

April 2, 2018

Support from the A. James & Alice B. Clark Foundation will establish a new
undergraduate program focused on leadership, service, and business and
entrepreneurship at the Pratt School of Engineering

Duke University has received $15 million from the A. James & Alice B. Clark
Foundation to establish a new undergraduate program focused on leadership,
service, and business and entrepreneurship at the Pratt School of Engineering,
President Vincent E. Price announced Monday.

The endowment is the single largest gift to Duke Engineering in support of an
undergraduate scholarship program. By providing funding and enrichment
opportunities to promising students with significant financial need, the A.
James Clark Scholars program will expand access to Duke’s nationally
recognized engineering education and create a new generation of
entrepreneurial engineering leaders.

“Duke University offers a transformative undergraduate experience, and the
Clark Scholars program will help us open the doors even wider to those
opportunities,” Price said. “We are enormously grateful for this gift, which
will advance our broader commitments to create global leaders in technological
and scientific discovery.”

The Clark Scholars program honors the legacy and values of the late A. James
Clark, a noted engineer, businessman and philanthropist who never forgot that
his business successes began with an engineering scholarship at the University
of Maryland. Clark Scholars at Duke will participate in dedicated service-
learning experiences, business courses and leadership training, as well as
one-on-one mentorship and enrichment seminars throughout their four years.
They will also learn how to translate their ideas into meaningful impact
through coursework and a focused summer program in entrepreneurship and
management.

“Technology is profoundly changing the world, and engineering leaders with
business savvy and entrepreneurial mindsets will undoubtedly shape our
future,” said Ravi V. Bellamkonda, Vinik Dean of Engineering at Duke. “The
Clark Scholars program will make the outstanding opportunities at Duke
Engineering more accessible to a diverse population of students. It will open
the path for bright people to pursue entrepreneurial approaches with the
potential to transform not only their lives, but the lives of others as they
design solutions for the world’s greatest challenges.”

The Clark Scholars program will be a signature component of Duke Engineering’s
initiative to encourage an entrepreneurial mindset among all its undergraduate
students. Scholars will join classmates from engineering and across Duke in
participating in courses, workshops, grant competitions and other
opportunities offered through the new Entrepreneurship @ Duke Engineering
program, a collaboration with the Duke Innovation & Entrepreneurship
initiative.

Courtney Clark Pastrick '77, board chairman of the A. James & Alice B. Clark
Foundation, knows first-hand the value of a Duke education.

"My dad always talked about the transformative impact a scholarship had on his
life. At the Foundation, we want to ensure that generations of students are
not limited by their financial status but propelled by their potential and
promise," Pastrick said. "As an alumna, I am particularly proud that Duke
University is part of A. James Clark Scholars family of institutions."

Ten Clark Scholars will be selected each year based on financial need,
academic accomplishments, engagement in engineering and leadership skills.
They will receive support over four years to help offset loans, work-study and
summer earnings requirements, allowing them greater freedom to participate in
unpaid service, extracurricular and internship opportunities.

The first cohort of scholarship recipients will be selected from the Class of
2022. Duke University will become the 10th Clark Scholars campus, joining The
George Washington University, Georgia Tech, Johns Hopkins University, The
University of Maryland, University of Pennsylvania, Stevens Institute of
Technology, Vanderbilt University, The University of Virginia and Virginia
Tech.

“We are honored to partner with Duke University to establish the Clark
Scholars program as part of our commitment to building the pipeline of future
engineers,” said Joe Del Guercio, president and CEO of the A. James & Alice B.
Clark Foundation. “We are particularly excited about the entrepreneurial focus
at Duke; Mr. Clark believed that the best engineers also developed strong
business acumen.”

Inspired by its founders’ belief in the power of hard work, the A. James &
Alice. B Clark Foundation invests to help those with a drive to achieve,
seeking out grantees that build concrete connections between effort and
opportunity. The foundation focuses its investments in four core areas:
engineering studies, D.C. education, D.C. community and veterans support.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

