

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# In the Classroom, a Decade of Lessons from Hurricane Katrina

August 26, 2015

In the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina 10 years ago, engineering professor
David Schaad built a new course that has changed and endured for a decade.

_Originally published on Duke Today_

A decade ago and in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, Duke engineering
professor David Schaad launched a new course he hoped might do some good in
the wake of that horrendous natural disaster.

Schaad wasn’t sure the course, “Natural Catastrophes: Rebuilding from Ruins,”
would gain much traction or have any sustainable interest.

It did. The first iteration enrolled nearly 180 students, 130 of which spent
their Spring Break working in New Orleans.

The course continues today, though it has changed a bit to examine other
natural disasters and ways to help rebuild communities. Here, Schaad, a civil
and environmental engineering professor in the Pratt School of Engineering,
discusses the experience with Duke Today.

**_DUKE TODAY:_** After Katrina, you put a class together examining how to
rebuild after a natural disaster. You weren’t sure of the interest level, but
a whopping 180 students enrolled. Why do you think Katrina resonated that
much?

**DAVID SCHAAD:** Ten years ago the immensity of the devastation of Hurricane
Katrina resonated in very palpable ways. The images on television made the
realities of the human suffering so intense and to see the magnitude of the
tragedy in such a major city was unprecedented. Many students experienced this
in a personal way and wanted to do something to partner with the people of New
Orleans. I was surprised by the interest level in the course, but after
interacting with the students, and especially the Spring Break Trip to the Big
Easy, it was apparent how invested each of them were in wanting to support the
people who had experienced, and lost, so much.

**_DT:_** Is there still much for engineering students to learn now, a decade
after the hurricane?

**DS:** The impacts of Hurricane Katrina are less obvious these days, but the
aftermath of the storm teaches us a great deal about who suffers the most when
a disaster strikes. In many cases it is marginalized people groups, usually
without a large amount of financial resources who were evacuated, and are
still living in Houston because they don't have the resources to rebuild. In
many ways the City of New Orleans is more vibrant and alive than ever before,
but that renewal has been different for different people.

**_DT:_** How can the Katrina experience help students more generally learn
about other natural disasters, including those in other parts of the world?

**DS:** Unfortunately, Katrina has faded into the collective consciousness,
even though many people are still dealing with the aftermath of relocating and
starting over. However, the reality and frequency of natural disasters has
only increased in the past decade. From tornadoes in Moore, Oklahoma; Super
Storm Sandy in the Northeast; devastating earthquakes in both Haiti and Nepal;
flooding in Pakistan; and droughts in California and Texas, it is clear that
we as a society need to do a better job of planning for, and recovering from
"disaster" events.

**_DT:_** What do or should today’s students — in your class and others like
it — be learning in order to accomplish that? What areas in particular need to
be addressed, emphasized and focused on?

**DS:** Students learn to think more holistically about the problems. Consider
the wild fires currently burning in the western United States - what are the
policy decisions, economic situation, and environmental setting which are
causing these fires to threaten many homes? How do we teach students to view
these issues through a multi-faceted lens? These are not intractable problems,
just challenging - and we need to be equipping students to address these
scenarios more completely.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

