

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Cochlear Implant Pioneer Blake Wilson to Receive Lasker Award

September 9, 2013

Duke Engineering Alumnus and Adjunct Professor Honored with Respected Science
Prize

Blake S. Wilson, a pioneer in the development of cochlear implants who serves
as a co-director of the Duke Hearing Center, will receive the 2013 Lasker-
DeBakey Clinical Medical Research Award.

The Albert and Mary Lasker Foundation announced Monday that Wilson will share
the award with Graeme M. Clark of Australia and Ingeborg J. Hochmair of
Austria, who also played critical roles in developing the device that restores
hearing to individuals with profound deafness. With continuous improvements in
both hardware and software, cochlear implants have become widely used and have
proven to be especially beneficial to children in recent years.

The Lasker Awards are among the most respected science prizes in the world.
Eighty-three Lasker laureates have received the Nobel Prize, including 31 in
the past two decades. In its announcement, The Lasker Foundation provided
details about all of this year’s laureates, who will be honored at a gala
ceremony Sept. 20 in New York.

Melinda Gates, a recipient of Duke undergraduate and MBA degrees who served as
a university trustee and delivered Duke’s 2013 commencement address, is being
honored by the foundation as well. She and her husband Bill Gates will receive
the 2013 Lasker-Bloomberg Public Service Award for their contributions to
improving health in the developing world and elsewhere.

“Duke University is immensely proud to have two members of its community
honored in the same year with this prestigious award,” said Duke President
Richard Brodhead. “Blake Wilson and Melinda Gates both received undergraduate
degrees at Duke and have maintained close ties with the university throughout
their lives. On different career paths, they have made contributions that have
transformed the lives of people around the world. They exemplify Duke’s
mission of providing knowledge in service of society.”

In addition to leading the Duke Hearing Center with co-director Debara L.
Tucci, M.D., Wilson is an adjunct professor in three departments at Duke:
surgery, biomedical engineering, and electrical and computer engineering. His
many other connections with Duke include helping to establish the Duke
Cochlear Implant Program in 1984 -- one of the first such programs of its kind
in the world -- and receiving the Distinguished Alumnus Award from the Pratt
School of Engineering in 2007. Wilson also worked full-time from 1974-2007 at
the Research Triangle Institute (now RTI International), with which Duke
maintains close ties.

"The cochlear implant is one of the great innovations in modern medicine and
has changed the hundreds of thousands of people worldwide who have benefitted
from its use," said Victor J. Dzau, MD, chancellor for health affairs at Duke.
"We are proud of Blake's key role in this project and for what it says about
Duke's commitment to encouraging the translation of scientific innovations to
patient care."

About 17 percent of American adults, or 36 million people, report some degree
of hearing loss, including nearly half of those aged 75 years or older,
according to the National Institutes of Health. Large numbers of children are
also affected. Men are more likely to experience hearing loss than women, and
the problem can range from difficulty hearing some high-pitched sounds to
total deafness.

Many patients with severe hearing loss embrace deaf culture. The development
of the cochlear implant provided new medical options for those seeking to
restore hearing. Wilson developed many of the processing strategies used in
present-day cochlear implant systems to translate sounds into electrical
signals the brain can interpret. The devices send the signals directly to the
auditory nerve, bypassing sensory hair cells in the ear that are often damaged
or absent in patients who are deaf or severely hearing impaired.

“I am thrilled to win this magnificent award along with Graeme Clark and
Ingeborg Hochmair,” Wilson said. “Indeed, they are the foremost living
pioneers in the development of the modern cochlear implant and I am proud
indeed to be in their grand company.”

Starting in the late 1960s, Clark and Hochmair demonstrated that tiny
electrodes could be placed at different locations in the cochlea, or inner
ear, and that different pitches could be produced through stimulation of the
different electrodes. However, few patients using the early devices could
understand speech without accompanying visual cues.

In the late 1980s, Wilson provided the next breakthrough by showing how the
devices could yield more useful information from ever-changing auditory
signals cascading across frequencies. His “continuous interleaved sampling”
system made it possible for cochlear implant recipients to understand words
and sentences with much greater clarity. It provided the basis for sound-
processing strategies that are now used widely, launching a rapid expansion in
the number of deaf and nearly deaf persons who have received a cochlear
implant in one or both ears. Today, the large majority of cochlear implant
users can talk on their cell phones and follow conversations in relatively
quiet environments.

"As a Duke engineering alumnus and adjunct professor who has long collaborated
with our faculty, Blake makes us very proud -- not only for the incredible
contributions he has made through his work, but for the inspiration he is to
the next generation of engineering students and trainees," said Tom
Katsouleas, dean of the Pratt School of Engineering at Duke. "He truly shows
the power of engineering innovation to make a dramatic difference in people's
lives. We are thrilled that he has received this richly deserved honor."

In describing the winners’ contributions, the Lasker Foundation wrote,
“Brilliance and relentless commitment have fueled the reverberating success of
Clark, Hochmair and Wilson. Less than a generation ago, deaf individuals had
no hope of hearing again. These scientists have cracked the barriers that
formerly isolated huge numbers of people from the realm of sound and have made
many lives hum in new ways.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

