

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Coding and Computers Help Spot Methane, Explosives

April 14, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

Coded apertures improve and shrink mass spectrometers for field use

A modern twist on an old technology could soon help detect rogue methane
leaks, hidden explosives and much more. A Duke University team is using
software to dramatically improve the performance of chemical-sniffing mass
spectrometers.

Conventional mass spectrometers separate compounds by giving them an electric
charge and passing them through electric and/or magnetic fields. The lighter
the compound, the more it bends in the field. By determining what compounds
make up a given sample, these instruments can identify almost any substance.

Mass spectrometers were invented in the 1930s, and they’re still typically the
size of an oven or refrigerator. Inherent hurdles to miniaturization have made
it difficult to use them outside of a laboratory. But with the help of modern
data analytics, researchers at Duke have demonstrated a technology using a so-
called “coded aperture” that promises to shrink these devices while
maintaining their performance. The advance could lead to portable mass
spectrometers that could be used to detect environmental or safety hazards in
the field.

The innovation is featured on the cover of the April issue of the Journal of
Mass Spectrometry.

“In a typical mass spectrometer, the charged molecules pass through a thin
slit, which defines your resolution,” said Jeff Glass, professor of electrical
and computer engineering at Duke and principal investigator for the project.
“When you try to shrink the instrument, you have to shrink the slit too. That
means the number of ions (charged molecules) passing through is going to drop
and you’re going to lose signal intensity. We got around this issue by using a
several slits, which code the ions.”

Glass likens the new technology to watching a solar eclipse in grade school.
Students often poke a small hole in a piece of cardboard, which acts like a
lens to create an image of the eclipse on the ground. And as anyone who has
ever done this knows, the smaller the hole, the better the detail of the
eclipse.

But a smaller hole also makes it dimmer and harder to see. This is exactly the
challenge faced when scaling down a mass spectrometer.

The solution, Glass says, is to make many tiny pinholes to create an array of
eclipses, and then to use a computer to reconstruct them into a single image.
This way you get the sharpness of the tiny pinhole with the brightness of a
large pinhole.

The key is in knowing the pattern -- or code -- of the array of apertures.
Thus the name of the technology, coded aperture.

“This idea was actually mentioned in a short article from 1970,” said Jason
Amsden, a research scientist and manager of the project. “But nobody since
then has had all the parts to put it together.”

The team drew on several different kinds of expertise. “Our group could do the
fabrication of the microstructures, but we relied on engineering colleagues
David Brady and Mike Gehm for the coding and computational aspects, and our
colleagues at RTI International (in the nearby Research Triangle Park) for the
electronics.”

The researchers have demonstrated that their coded aperture works in a newer,
more complex type of mass spectrometer created to help make the devices
smaller, though not nearly as small or precise as coded apertures could make
them. Previous papers by the Duke researchers have also shown that the
approach improves the performance of very simple mass spectrometers, like
those used in the early days of mass spectrometry.

Their work now is focusing on trying coded apertures in different versions of
mass spectrometers to determine which would be best for creating scaled down,
mobile devices for field use. They are also working to show these devices can
detect trace amounts of methane to spot leaks in infrastructure and various
explosives to thwart terror attempts.

But the technology can also have an immediate impact in research laboratories
around the world.

“This technique can improve the performance of classic mass spectrometers that
already have a higher resolution than other types invented for scaling down,”
said Amsden. “And there are lots of them. Duke alone probably has at least 50
for medical applications. So we’re hoping this can have a wide impact in the
near future.”

This work was supported by the Department of Homeland Security Science and
Technology Directorate and is currently supported by ARPA-E, Department of
Energy.

###

“Compatibility of Spatially Coded Apertures with a Miniature Mattauch-Herzog
Mass Spectrograph,” Zachary E. Russell, Shane T. DiDona, Jason J. Amsden,
Charles B. Parker, Gottfried Kibelka, Michael E. Gehm, Jeffrey T. Glass.
JASMS, 2016. DOI: 10.1007/s13361-015-1323-7

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

