

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Computational Thinking

April 3, 2018

By weaving in real-world projects, Duke Engineering is piloting a new approach
to introductory computing that seeks to give students not only a strong
foundation in programming skills, but a vision of coding as a creative tool

Shaundra B. Daily likes to compare coding to a paintbrush.

“It is a creative tool. It can create useful things that improve the way
people live,” said Daily, a faculty member in Electrical and Computer
Engineering (ECE).

Students don’t always think of computing that way—and that means many of them
don’t think of computer science, engineering or other coding-centric careers
as a potential path for them. In piloting a fresh approach to Duke
Engineering’s introductory computing course, Daily and her colleague Michael
Gustafson are looking to ways to change that.

“In general, first-year students don’t always get to see what seniors see,
which is that you can apply the fundamentals of programming to a wide array of
fields to make a positive social impact,” said Daily. “But plenty of research
shows that it helps attract and retain students when you give them earlier
exposure to doing creative things through computing.”

The spring 2018 offering of the Computational Methods in Engineering course
continues to provide rigorous training in computational methods. But
Gustafson, a Duke ECE faculty member who co-teaches the course with Daily,
said computational thinking is about more than memorizing the details of a
computing language.

“It’s about being able to think in computational terms when assessing a
problem—to use computation as part of solving that problem,” he said. In the
new pilot course, students will be challenged to connect computing to real-
world, collaborative problem-solving through team projects. They’ll draw on
what they’ve learned about programming logic, iterative calculations and
debugging to figure out what those methods can achieve for the end user and
how to build an interface for their target audience.

In one example, students will analyze pollution levels in the Great Lakes
using models from environmental engineering. They will use computational
methods and tools learned during lecture—for example, linear algebra and
nonlinear regression—to estimate how various environmental and other factors
might impact the system over time.

Then they’ll build an interface that presents the information in a variety of
ways.

“The power of this approach is that each student is exposed to concepts of
computational thinking right from their first year in engineering school,”
Gustafson said. “This gives each student a suite of basic practical skills,
training in problem-solving concepts and preparation for more complex
computational training, letting them hit the ground running when they select
their engineering discipline.”

Read more about Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate research experience
»

## Duke Technology Scholars: Diversifying Coding

A new program at Duke is working to increase the number of tech-savvy women
and other underrepresented groups in computer science and engineering.

Duke Technology Scholars—a joint initiative of the Departments of Electrical &
Computer Engineering and Computer Science—seeks to inspire greater diversity
in tech fields through building strong professional relationships and
providing real-world experiences at leading technology firms.

Each student selected as a “DTech” Scholar is paired with a mentor working in
a leading organization in the tech world—many DTech mentors are Duke
graduates. Our mentors help scholars build confidence and professional
networks, as do summer internships with companies in Silicon Valley, Chicago
or Research Triangle Park. In fact, 96 percent of scholars surveyed reported
that their technical skills and confidence rose significantly over the summer

DTech also offers an associates program for eligible ECE/CS majors offering
training and networking events, job-search support and coaching throughout the
academic year. Duke ECE's Shani Daily serves as faculty director for DTech,
and Monica Jenkins is program director.

**Learn more at** dtech.duke.edu »

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

