

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Congress Members Visit Duke to Experience the Future of Airport Security

November 8, 2013 | By Landy Elliot

Three members of the North Carolina delegation to Congress—Reps. Richard
Hudson (R-NC), George Holding (R-NC), and David Price (D-NC)—visited Duke’s
campus on November 6 to tour research labs and view demonstrations of airport
security research projects happening at Duke.

_FromDuke Federal Relations_

Three members of the North Carolina delegation to Congress—Reps. Richard
Hudson (R-NC), George Holding (R-NC), and David Price (D-NC)—visited Duke’s
campus on November 6 to tour research labs and view demonstrations of airport
security research projects happening at Duke.

Over the past several years, Duke has become a vibrant hub of research into
aviation security explosives detection systems. Projects with highly technical
names like “coded aperture miniature mass spectroscopy” are focusing on making
an impact in our everyday lives by making technology used in airport security
checkpoints smaller, faster, cheaper, and more effective. In short, these
projects aim to make us safer with, in some cases, the added potential bonus
of shorter security lines.

The visit stemmed from a Congressional briefing on these projects that OFR
hosted in DC this past summer. Intrigued by what he learned from the
researchers’ presentations, Rep. Hudson, chair of the Transportation Security
Subcommittee of the House Committee on Homeland Security, initiated the idea
for a laboratory tour and invited some of his colleagues to join him in
viewing the projects in action.

The Members’ visit also included a meeting with President Richard Brodhead and
Chancellor Victor Dzau, who stressed the importance of ending the federal
budget sequester and reaching a bipartisan solution to the current budget
impasse.

## metaImager

Imagine walking through a corridor at your normal pace and proceeding to your
gate (with enough time to pick up a magazine and a candy bar), without having
to suffer the boredom and indignity of the one-at-at-a-time airport checkpoint
security queue.

Professor David Smith is developing technology using metamaterials that would
only stop passengers if large antennae in the walls detected dangerous objects
on an individual. These metamaterials integrate three types of imaging
processes that provide improved resolution and specificity in detection and
result in a cost reduction of 10-20 times that of current technology to boot.

This technology will be tested for TSA and DHS in the next one-to-two years
and could be in airports in as little as three years.

## Gigapixel Camera

How valuable would a surveillance image be that let you zoom in on the tiny
neck tattoo of a person in the midst of a large crowd? The gigapixel camera is
an experimental camera with a resolution 10 times that of normal human vision.
This super high-resolution allows a viewer, once the picture is taken, to zoom
in on an image to a degree that makes even the tiniest details discernible.

Though the AWARE-2 project is funded by the Department of Defense, these
cameras, which have obvious applications for surveillance technology, sparked
some of the initial DHS interest in Duke research into aviation security.

## Coded Aperture Micro Mass Spectroscopy (CAMMS)

Have you ever had your hands swabbed in the airport security line? The TSA
agents are searching for trace amounts of explosives, and although it’s a
relatively simple process (from a passenger point of view), the number of
false positives returned from these tests are not ideal.

Enter Duke research into CAMMS. Dubbed “the ultimate chemical sensor,” the
micro mass spectrometer can be used as a portable explosives sensor, and Duke
researchers are developing the technology to make them low cost, sensitive,
quick, and field-deployable.

## X-Ray Scatter

Could the end of the 3 ounce rule be in sight? Current x-ray technology at
airport checkpoints display simple outlines of the objects in your suitcase,
but Duke professor David Brady is working on an airport x-ray detection system
that would actually detect the exact molecular structure of a bag’s contents,
allowing screeners to know exactly what kind of material you have in your
briefcase.

This research also has implications for the medical field by allowing for
lower dosages and focused x-rays, which would reduce the threat of
overexposure to radiation.

More: Duke Technology Could Yield Quicker Airport Security Checks (wunc.org)

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

