

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Copper Ions Flow Like Liquid through the Frozen Atomic Network of a Crystal

October 8, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

Atomic insights into superionic crystals could lead to safer, more efficient
rechargeable batteries

Materials scientists have sussed out the physical phenomenon underlying the
promising electrical and thermal properties of a class of materials called
superionic crystals. A better understanding of such materials could lead to
safer and more efficient rechargeable batteries than the current standard-
bearer of lithium ion.

Becoming a popular topic of study within the past five years, superionic
crystals are a cross between a liquid and a solid. While some of their atoms
retain a rigid crystalline structure akin to a frozen state, others become
liquid-like above a certain temperature, and are able to flow through the
solid scaffold.

In a new study, scientists from Duke University, Oak Ridge National Laboratory
(ORNL) and Argonne National Laboratory (ANL) probed one such superionic
crystal containing copper, chromium and selenium (CuCrSe2) with neutrons and
X-rays to determine how the material’s copper ions achieve their liquid-like
properties. The results appear online on Oct. 8 in the journal Nature Physics.

“When CuCrSe2 is heated above 190 degrees Fahrenheit, its copper ions fly
around inside the layers of chromium and selenium about as fast as liquid
water molecules move,” said Olivier Delaire, associate professor of mechanical
engineering and materials science at Duke and senior author on the study. “And
yet, it’s still a solid that you could hold in your hand. We wanted to
understand the physics behind this phenomenon.”

To probe the copper ions’ behavior, Delaire and his colleagues turned to two
world-class facilities: the Spallation Neutron Source at Oak Ridge and the
Advanced Photon Source at Argonne. Each machine provided a unique piece of the
puzzle.

> “If we can understand how superionic crystals work through this study and
> future research, we could perhaps find a better, solid solution for
> transporting ions in rechargeable batteries.”

By pinging a large sample of powdered CuCrSe2 made at Oak Ridge with powerful
neutrons, the researchers got a wide-scale view of the material’s atomic
structure and dynamics, revealing both the vibrations of the stiff scaffold of
chromium and selenium atoms as well as the random jumps of copper ions within.

For a narrower but more detailed look at vibration modes, the researchers
bombarded a tiny single grain of CuCrSe2 crystal with high-resolution X-rays.
This allowed them to examine how the rays scattered off of its atoms and how
scaffold vibrations enabled shear waves to propagate, a hallmark of solid
behavior.

With both sets of information in hand, Delaire’s group ran quantum simulations
of the material’s atomic behavior at the National Energy Research Scientific
Computing Center to explain their findings. Below the phase transition
temperature of 190 degrees Fahrenheit, the copper atoms vibrate around
isolated sites, trapped in pockets of the material’s scaffold structure. But
above that temperature, they are able to hop randomly between multiple
available sites. This allows the copper ions to flow throughout the otherwise
solid crystal.

While more work is needed to understand how the copper atoms interact with one
another once both sites become occupied, the findings offer clues as to how to
use similar materials in future electronic applications.

“Most commercial lithium ion batteries use a liquid electrolyte to transfer
ions between the positive and negative terminals of the battery,” Delaire
said. “While efficient, this liquid can be dangerously flammable, as many
laptop and smartphone owners have unfortunately discovered.”

“There are variants of superionic crystals that contain ions like lithium or
sodium that behave like the copper in CuCrSe2,” Delaire said. “If we can
understand how superionic crystals work through this study and future
research, we could perhaps find a better, solid solution for transporting ions
in rechargeable batteries.”

This research was supported by the Department of Energy (DE-SC0016166, DE-
SC0001299, DE-AC02-06CH11357, DE-AC02-05CH11231, DEAC05-00OR22725).

CITATION: “Selective Breakdown of Phonon Quasiparticles across Superionic
Transition in CuCrSe2.” J. L. Niedziela, Dipanshu Bansal, Andrew F. May,
Jingxuan Ding, Tyson Lanigan-Atkins, Georg Ehlers, Douglas L. Abernathy, Ayman
Said, & Olivier Delaire. Nature Physics, 2018. DOI: 10.1038/s41567-018-0298-2

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

