

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Coulter Partnership 2016: Five research teams funded for projects focused on
improving human health

September 6, 2016

In its first decade, the program has funded 18 projects that evolved into new
companies

Five teams of biomedical engineers and clinicians have received one-year
grants for research through the 2016 Coulter-Duke Translational Partnership.

This year’s recipients are developing devices that range from a robotic
surgical assist device for improving corneal transplant to a point-of-care
imaging device that uses ultrasound to measure the elasticity of skin and
liver tissue, allowing physicians to better diagnose skin and liver sclerosis.
The common thread among all of the projects is a plan to move these ideas out
of the ivory tower and into the commercial world so that they can improve
patient care.

Each team has a lead investigator with an appointment in the Pratt School of
Engineering’s Department of Bomedical Engineering, and at least one faculty or
staff member from the Duke University School of Medicine, as required by the
original agreement with the Wallace H. Coulter Foundation in 2005.

In its first decade, the program has funded 18 projects that evolved into new
companies dedicated to human health and licensing new ideas to pharmaceutical
and medical technology companies.

“This was far in excess of expectations,” says Barry Myers, MD, PhD, the
director of the program.

So far in excess, in fact, that the Coulter Foundation waived the required
five-year review of the program in 2016 and automatically renewed the
partnership with Duke for another five years.

Myers believes the program’s success is due, in part, to the team of project
reviewers and project managers funded through the close collaboration of the
Duke Clinical and Translational Science Institute and the Coulter Program.

“Our faculty have fantastic ideas, but it takes a lot of effort and resources
to move an idea from academia into business,” Myers says. “We are excited
about the promise each of the projects for 2016 has for rapidly moving into a
product that will generate excitement from investors and others in the
healthcare market.”

### 2016 Duke-Coulter Projects

**Surgical Image-Guided Robot Assist Device for Partial Thickness Corneal
Transplantation**

Professor of BME and ophthalmology **Joseph Izatt** and ophthalmic surgeon
**Anthony Kuo** are developing a novel robotic surgical assist device to
overcome barriers to widespread adoption of a greatly improved form of corneal
transplant surgery.

**High Throughput Screening of Gene Regulator Elements That Enhance T Cell
Immunotherapy**

Associate professor of BME **Charles Gersbach** ; professor of neurosurgery
**John Sampson;** associate professor of pediatrics **Gregory Crawford** ; and
assistant professor of bioinformatics and biostatistics **Timothy Reddy** will
combine a CRISPR-based epigenome editing technology for high-throughput
screening of gene regulatory elements and expertise in immunotherapy to
develop strategies to enhance the effectiveness of T cell-mediated elimination
of solid tumors.

**Next-Generation Non-Immunogenic PEG-like Protein Conjugates**

BME senior research scientist **Angus Hucknall** and professor **Michael
Hershfield** from the Departments of Biochemistry and Medicine will team up to
develop a novel polymer that can increase the stability of biologic drugs in
the same manner as the polymer poly(ethylene glycol) PEG, without inducing the
antibodies and allergic reactions that have impeded some clinical trials of
PEGylated biologics.

_Two teams that received support from the Coulter Award last year receive
continued support beginning in September 2016:_

**Novel Technique for Noninvasive Intracranial Pressure Measurement**

BME associate research professor **Dale Bass** and pediatric neurosurgeon
**Carrie Muh** will continue to develop a passive pressure sensor to allow
non-invasive measurement of intracranial pressure and shunt flow in patients
who have a shunt implanted to drain excess fluid from around the brain.

**Constructive Shear Wave Interference Measurement in Liver and Skin**

BME research scientist **Peter Hollender,** **Mark Palmeri,** an associate
professor of the practice in BME, and **Adela Rambi Cardones** , an assistant
professor of dermatology, will adapt last year’s project of developing an
ultrasound elastography device for measuring the stiffness of the liver to
include a skin transducer that can measure sclerotic skin as a biomarker for
chronic graft-versus-host disease (cGVHD).

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

