

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# D.I.Y. Crystal-Makers Get Refurbished Online Cookbook

June 2, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

Crystalline structures database provides recipes for non-expert "chefs"
cooking up new materials

In response to popular demand, materials scientists at Duke University have
resurrected an online cookbook of crystalline structures that started when the
World Wide Web was Netscape Navigator and HTML 1.0.

In 1995, Michael Mehl, then a scientist at the U.S. Naval Research Laboratory,
began collecting, cataloguing and sharing information about crystalline
structures on a basic website for colleagues.

Researchers needed a reference catalogue to guide their efforts because
crystals form hundreds of different structures in nature. Chemists use
crystals as handy building blocks for new materials because of their rigid,
ordered molecular shapes, which help determine a material's properties.

Mehl's website, called Crystal Lattice Structures, provided detailed
information that, while available from other sources, was more useful to
researchers unfamiliar with crystallographic conventions. If crystalline
databases were cookbooks and each crystal structure a recipe, researchers had
written other references suitable for accomplished French chefs with
specialized training. Crystal Lattice Structures, on the other hand, was for
your average home cook.

"The library showed how crystallography relates to crystals in the real
world," explained Mehl, now at the United States Naval Academy. "It also gave
a broad overview of structures seen experimentally, which is always a good
place to start looking for something new."

Mehl took the website down in 2010, however, due in part to security upgrades
made at NRL, and because the website's haphazard growth over 15 years had left
its organization unnecessarily complicated and its entries un-standardized.

"There were a lot of people in the community asking where the database had
gone and whether or not it could be brought back," said Stefano Curtarolo,
professor of mechanical engineering and materials science at Duke. "We decided
to put all the information together into a paper and also bring back the
website in a more robust and open-source version."

With Mehl's help, Curtarolo and his team have resurrected Crystal Lattice
Structures, launching a new and improved online catalogue and publishing a
paper containing all of its data (the first of a longer collection). The paper
appeared online on May 22 in _Computational Materials Science_.

The paper, which took more than a year to compile, contains 288 entries for
various crystalline structures. Each entry contains data on the symmetry of
the structure, its crystalline properties and the shape of a unit cell. It
also contains generic mathematic equations describing each atom's placement,
rather than providing that information in a specialized form as other
databases typically do.

"Having the equations for the atomic placements written out gives more
flexibility to include slight variations and to specifically tune each
structure," said Cormac Toher, assistant research professor of mechanical
engineering and materials science at Duke. "We're also going to have a 3D
viewer of the structures at the top of each entry so that people can see the
structures at different angles."

Making the new website even more robust, each entry is directly linked to the
Duke Center for Materials Genomics AFLOW library—an online database of two-
and three-element compounds that lets users predict the properties of yet-to-
be-discovered materials. With the incorporation of the new database, users can
simply choose which elemental atoms to place at which positions in any of the
288 crystalline structures, and the program will compute the resulting
material's likely properties.

"We had to decide what format to present the information in, get all of the
data, and 800 pages later, make sure there weren't any errors," said David
Hicks, a graduate student in Curtarolo's laboratory. "And then implementing
everything within AFLOW took another 288 files of C++ coding. It was a lot of
work, but we think it will be a very useful resource for the community."

Support for this research was provided by the Department of Defense Office of
Naval Research (N00014-13-1-0635, N00014-15-1-2863, N00014-16-1-2781) and the
Department of Energy (DE-AC02-05CH11231).

"The AFLOW Library of Crystallographic Prototypes: Part 1," Michael J. Mehl,
David Hicks, Cormac Toher, Ohad Levy, Robert M. Hanson, Gus Hart, Stefano
Curtarolo. Computational Materials Science, 2017. DOI:
10.1016/j.commatsci.2017.01.017

###

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

