

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Cummings Named to New Federal Committee on Automation

January 19, 2017

DOT committee to guide nation on drones, driverless cars and other
transformative advances in transportation

Mary “Missy” Cummings, professor of mechanical engineering and materials
science at Duke University, has been named to a new Federal Committee on
Automation established this month by the U.S. Department of Transportation
(DOT). Focused on automation across a number of modes, the new committee
includes 25 leading professionals and experts in their field, who will work on
some of the most pressing and relevant matters facing transportation today.

The announcement comes on the heels of Cummings being tapped to help lead the
new $2.8 million Collaborative Sciences Center for Road Safety (CSCRS), a
National University Transportation Center funded by DOT and based at the
University of North Carolina, in its efforts to prepare for the advent of
driverless cars. Cummings will serve as a researcher for the CSCRS and as an
advisor for the Committee on Automation—two very different but very important
roles.

“Given the extensive research of my lab, the Humans and Autonomy Laboratory,
across unmanned aviation, automated rail and driverless cars, I am looking
forward to bringing our world-renowned sociotechnical research methods to bear
for the critical transformation of our national transportation networks,” said
Cummings.

Cummings has a wide breadth of experience with the impact of autonomous
vehicles. As a former fighter pilot in the Navy, Cummings experienced
firsthand how rising levels of automation affected the military’s aviation
program. She has since worked on research projects investigating how pilots
interact with autonomous systems, both in the cockpit and remotely, and how
boredom affects human operators monitoring autonomous flight.

On the ground, Cummings works with Google’s autonomous vehicle program to
research the impact of boredom on drivers in autonomous cars and with the
National Science Foundation to investigate how pedestrians might interact with
driverless cars. She also heads a research project examining how automation
might make the freight train system more efficient.

“During my time at the Department, we have fostered some of the most
significant technological changes to ever take place in transportation, and we
did so while keeping our focus on the safety of the American people,” said
U.S. Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx. ”This new automation committee
will work to advance life-saving innovations while boosting our economy and
making our transportation network more fair, reliable and efficient.”

As technology develops, automation may play a larger role in a number of modes
of transportation, including cars, buses, trains, planes, and UAS (drone)
systems. The new committee will play a critical role in sharing best
practices, challenges and opportunities in automation, and will open lines of
communication so stakeholders can learn and adapt based on feedback from each
other.

As found in the Department’s _Beyond Traffic 2045_ Report about the future of
transportation, the nation’s population is expected to grow by 70 million more
people in the next three decades, and face an increase of more than 40 percent
in freight volume. The committee will play a needed role in helping the
country prepare for its infrastructure needs in the coming years.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

