

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Custom Silicon Microparticles Dynamically Reconfigure On Demand

May 3, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

First demonstration of self-assembling and self-disassembling silicon
microparticles could form the basis for designing artificial muscles and
reconfigurable computer systems

Researchers at Duke University and North Carolina State University have
demonstrated the first custom semiconductor microparticles that can be steered
into various configurations repeatedly while suspended in water.

With an initial six custom particles that predictably interact with one
another in the presence of alternating current (AC) electric fields of varying
frequencies, the study presents the first steps toward realizing advanced
applications such as artificial muscles and reconfigurable computer systems.

The study appears online on May 3 in the journal Nature Communications.

“We’ve engineered and encoded multiple dynamic responses in different
microparticles to create a reconfigurable silicon toolbox,” said Ugonna Ohiri,
a recently graduated electrical engineering doctoral student from Duke and
first author of the paper. “By providing a means of controllably assembling
and disassembling these particles, we’re bringing a new tool to the field of
active matter.”

While previous researchers have worked to define self-assembling systems, few
have worked with semiconductor particles, and none have explored the wide
range of custom shapes, sizes and coatings that are available to the micro-
and nanofabrication industry. Engineering particles from silicon presents the
opportunity to physically realize electronic devices that can self-assemble
and disassemble on demand. Customizing their shapes and sizes presents
opportunities to explore a wide-ranging design space of new motile behaviors.

“Most previous work performed using self-assembling particles has been done
with shapes such as spheres and other off-the-shelf materials,” said Nan
Jokerst, the J. A. Jones Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at
Duke. “Now that we can customize whatever arbitrary shapes, electrical
characteristics and patterned coatings we want with silicon, a whole new world
is opening up.”

In the study, Jokerst and Ohiri fabricated silicon particles of various
shapes, sizes and electrical properties. In collaboration with Orlin Velev,
the INVISTA Professor of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering at NC State,
they characterized how these particles responded to different magnitudes and
frequencies of electric fields while submerged in water.

Based on these observations, the researchers then fabricated new batches of
customized particles that were likely to exhibit the behaviors they were
looking for, resulting in six different engineered silicon microparticle
compositions that could move through water, synchronize their motions, and
reversibly assemble and disassemble on demand.

The thin film particles are 10-micron by 20-micron rectangles that are 3.5
microns thick. They’re fabricated using Silicon-on-Insulator (SOI) technology.
Since they can be made using the same fabrication technology that produces
integrated circuits, millions of identical particles could be produced at a
time.

“The idea is that eventually we’re going to be able to make silicon
computational systems that assemble, disassemble and then reassemble in a
different format,” said Jokerst. “That’s a long way off in the future, but
this work provides a sense of the capabilities that are out there and is the
first demonstration of how we might achieve those sorts of devices.”

That is, however, only the tip of the proverbial iceberg. Some of the
particles were fabricated with both p-type and n-type regions to create p-n
junctions—common electrical components that allow electricity to pass in only
one direction. Tiny metal patterns were also placed on the particles’ surfaces
to create p-n junction diodes with contacts. In the future, researchers could
even engineer particles with patterns using other electrically conductive or
insulating materials, complex integrated circuits, or microprocessors on or
within the silicon.

“This work is just a small snapshot of the tools we have to control particle
dynamics,” said Ohiri. “We haven’t even scratched the surface of all of the
behaviors that we can engineer, but we hope that this multidisciplinary study
can pioneer future studies to design artificial active materials.”

The research was conducted through a seed grant from the Research Triangle
Materials Research Science and Engineering Center (MRSEC). Launched in 2011,
the center is a national resource for materials science and engineering
research and education located in the Raleigh/Durham/Chapel Hill area of North
Carolina. The center encompasses faculty and students at Duke University,
North Carolina State University, North Carolina Central University and the
University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill. The National Science Foundation
supports 21 MRSECs across the country to support cutting-edge, collaborative
research in materials science.

This research was supported by the National Science Foundation (DMR-1121107,
ECCS-1542015).

CITATION: “Reconfigurable Engineered Motile Semiconductor Microparticles,”
Ugonna Ohiri, C. Wyatt Shields IV, Koohee Han, Talmage Tyler, Orlin D. Velev
and Nan Jokerst. Nature Communications, May 3, 2018. DOI:
10.1038/s41467-018-04183-y

# # #

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

