

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# D-MEMP Student Alexander Lavin Makes Forbes "30 Under 30" List

February 15, 2016

_Alexander Lavin, a student in Duke’sdistance Master of Engineering Management
Program, was just recognized as being among the top four percent of 15,000
applicants in the science category on the 2016 Forbes “30 Under 30“ list.
Lavin is currently researching artificial intelligence and natural language
processing at Numenta in California while working his way through the
management program._

**You say that you are working on natural language processing at Numenta –
what does that mean exactly?**

Working on natural language processing (NLP) means to develop algorithms that
enable computers to process human language toward useful applications. Example
applications we have today are mobile assistants and translating webpages.
It's arguably the most challenging area of machine learning research. At
Numenta, we're using NLP tasks as a testbed to build out our core algorithms,
hierarchical temporal memory (HTM). HTM is our theory of neocortex, which
we're programming into software to build machine intelligence.

**You studied as a “rocket scientist” at Cornell, so why did you make the jump
to artificial intelligence?**

As you mentioned, my background is in mechanical engineering, specifically for
spacecraft, including a master’s degree with Carnegie Mellon University (CMU).
While working on a lunar rover at CMU, I started to play around with software
and artificial intelligence and I just loved it. I decided to make the career
move, studying artificial intelligence textbooks and doing programming
projects on my own. After about a year of these studies, I felt confident
enough to pursue a job in artificial intelligence research. So I joined
Numenta, where I've been for almost 15 months now.

**Why did you enroll in an engineering management program, and why Duke’s
distance program?**

I want my work to make significant impacts, and I want to lead others to do it
with me. The Master of Engineering Management Program is designed to help me
build and hone the necessary skills. The distance program is ideal. I can
immediately apply what I learn in the classroom to my job, and my job can
influence what I learn.

I chose the Duke program mainly because the distance program allows me to work
in industry while I take classes. I was also attracted to a few specific
courses like Commercializing Tech Innovations and IP Law. It’s been a great
experience, though free time has been scarce.

**How long have you been in the program and what’s your experience been like
so far?**

I started the program in parallel with CMU back in 2013, and plan on finishing
this fall. Overall, it's been a positive experience, particularly getting to
know the other students in my distance cohort.

**Have you been able to apply anything you’ve learned yet?**

Definitely. Most notably emotional intelligence, which has helped me improve
both as a manager and personally. I think I've always had good emotional
intelligence, but actively improving it has helped me better navigate working
relationships, particularly when there's potential conflict.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

