

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# D’Arcy Named First Barr-Spach Medicine and Engineering Scholar

April 24, 2017 | By Jeni Baker

New endowed scholarship supports medicine-engineering initiatives, honors
faculty mentors

Duke second-year medical student Joshua D’Arcy, M’19, has been chosen as the
inaugural recipient of the new Barr-Spach Medicine and Engineering
Scholarship.

The scholarship was created by a gift from Maynard Ramsey III, M’69, G’75, who
established an endowment to honor his Duke mentors, biomedical engineering
professor and associate professor of pediatrics Roger C. Barr, BS’64, PhD’68,
and pediatric cardiologist Madison S. Spach, T’50, MD’54, HS’54-59.

The endowment also provides seed money for faculty research collaborations
between the schools of medicine and engineering.

The Barr-Spach Scholarship—administered through Duke MEDx—will support D’Arcy
as he completes a Master of Engineering degree through the Pratt School’s
innovative new Doctor of Medicine-Master of Engineering (MD-MEng) dual-degree
program.

Designed to create a pipeline of newly minted MDs with engineering expertise,
the program seeks to foster innovation in health care and “prepare our doctors
to think more deeply about developing novel solutions that help patients,
solve problems and serve society,” says Brad Fox, program director and
associate dean for master’s programs at the Pratt School.

“The MD-MEng degree is another example of Duke’s engineering and medical
schools working together to better educate graduates, and we’re very thankful
for Dr. Ramsey’s generosity in creating a scholarship that helps students take
advantage of all it offers.”

## Honoring Mentors

**Maynard Ramsey III, M’69, G’75** , established the Barr-Spach Medicine and
Engineering Scholarship in honor of his Duke mentors, Roger C. Barr and
Madison S. Spach, whose careers spanned the two disciplines.

**Roger C. Barr** is a professor of biomedical engineering and an associate
professor of pediatrics. His research has involved mathematical analysis and
computer simulations of electrically active tissue—particularly in and around
the heart—and the development of computer systems for simultaneous high-speed
recordings of cardiac voltage channels.

**Madison S. Spach** is a James B. Duke Professor Emeritus of Medicine and
professor emeritus of pediatrics in the School of Medicine. A renowned
pediatric cardiologist and scientist, his research examined electrophysiology
and the mechanisms behind cardiac dysrhythmias. On the faculty from 1960-1996,
Spach developed Duke’s training program in pediatric cardiology.

## MD-MEng program prepares physician-inventors

In addition to being the first Barr-Spach Scholar, D’Arcy is the first student
to pursue Duke’s novel MD-MEng dual degree option.

By giving third-year Duke medical students an opportunity to receive
specialized training in engineering design and technical problem-solving, says
Fox, “The program supports physician-inventors who will focus on developing
new products and technologies and drive innovation in medicine.”

“Many of medicine’s grand challenges will be better addressed by minds that
are prepared with the skills and tools that the MD-MEng program provides,”
adds Duke MEDx director Geoff Ginsburg. “MD-MEng trainees will not only be
well-versed in clinical and population-health challenges, they will be
integrated into and speak the language of the engineering community, which
will work to provide solutions to these challenges.”

The program is a signature example of the kinds of interdisciplinary training
opportunities that Duke MEDx seeks to foster, he notes.

“MEDx aims to create innovation at the interface of medicine and engineering,
and the MD-MEng program lays the groundwork for developing the next generation
of researchers who will be more prepared to carry out cross-disciplinary
research and lead programs at this nexus,” Ginsburg says.

“We’re excited to support Joshua D’Arcy as he embarks on this less
conventional career path as the first Barr-Spach Scholar, and expect that
others in the future will want to emulate him.”

## Pushing for proactive health care

Set to begin his Master of Engineering work in fall 2017, D’Arcy is already
thinking big.

“Today’s medicines and surgeries are hugely successful in many ways, but every
medication has side effects, and every surgery holds a risk for complication,”
he says. “By using health policy and advancing technology, we can help prevent
people from getting sick in the first place, which will ultimately protect
them from the potent effects of modern medicine.”

D’Arcy—who holds a bachelor’s degree in biomolecular science from the
University of Michigan—is optimistic that the MD-MEng degree will give him the
foundation he needs to effect change.

“My hope is that this dual degree will put me in a position where I can help
push our healthcare system to be more proactive and less reactive,” he says.
“I believe this is possible through existing methods and technologies such as
data mining, machine learning, and wearable health devices.”

D’Arcy hasn’t yet decided whether he’ll pursue a career as a practicing
physician with an engineering background or as a practicing engineer with a
medical degree.

Currently immersed in clinical training, he also serves as a teaching
assistant for “Healthcare Markets and Policy,” an accredited School of
Medicine course he designed with help from Duke faculty and classmates.

“My intent is to follow the path with the greatest opportunities and chances
to succeed in my goals,” he says. “I’m equally open to both directions and
excited for the future.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

