

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# DAREC Deepens Duke’s Efforts to Educate Engineers in FinTech

October 7, 2021 | Mark Schreiner

Farman-Farmaian gift supports the new Digital Asset Research & Engineering
Collaborative

Unheard only a few years ago, terms such as blockchain, cryptocurrency and
NFTs are now subjects of the nightly news, advertising and across-the-back-
fence chats.

The idea behind these digital assets is as simple as it is disruptive:
Information technology that enables the global creation and transfer of items
of value.

This growing array of tools, each made up of billions of lines of computer
code, is engineered. And, students come to Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering
to learn from research and industry experts and to earn a Master of
Engineering in Financial Technology.

Now, Duke Engineering is preparing to launch DAREC: the Digital Asset Research
& Engineering Collaborative—an online research repository of up-to-the-minute,
high-quality analyses and commentary on digital assets.

> “Duke’s approach to teaching these skills is multidisciplinary, bringing
> together experts in law, economics, finance, management and engineering. I
> am pleased to be able to support this work through the launch of DAREC.”
>
> **Teymour Farman-Farmaian T'88** | Founder and CEO, Nowmatic

DAREC is made possible by a gift from Teymour Farman-Farmaian, a 1988 Duke
economics graduate, tech executive and digital-asset industry entrepreneur. He
is the founder and CEO of the digital payments company Nowmatic. Previously,
he had served in senior management roles at Google, Zynga and Spotify.

“The computer engineering that is the foundation of financial technology,
cryptocurrency and digital assets is already revolutionizing the way people
bank and make payments, and its potential in other areas is vast,” Farman-
Farmaian said. “Duke’s approach to teaching these skills is multidisciplinary,
bringing together experts in law, economics, finance, management and
engineering. I am pleased to be able to support this work through the launch
of DAREC.”

The gift from Farman-Farmaian, said Jeff Glass, interim dean of the Pratt
School of Engineering, “provides important support for Duke Engineering’s
continuing efforts to continually bring greater interaction with industry into
our educational programs for students and working professionals.”

The vision for DAREC is to provide an online resource of open research,
analysis and commentary that is academically and computationally rigorous,
said Jimmie Lenz, director of the Duke FinTech programs. “We think this
resource will contribute greatly to the understanding of important digital
asset issues, such as cryptocurrency, asset pricing, risk management,
regulation and more. Moreover, it will be a resource not only for our students
but for the industry and the public.”

DAREC will be an initiative within Duke Engineering’s Institute for Enterprise
Engineering, which provides high-impact professional education to respond to
fast-evolving industry needs, especially in the areas of AI and machine
learning, cybersecurity, financial technology and engineering management. The
educational programs offered range from online and on-campus master’s degrees
to online educational credentials offered through university partner Coursera
to virtual one-week short courses designed especially for working
professionals.

The first step in establishing DAREC will be a publicly accessible website to
collect in one place the blog posts, op-eds, scholarly journal articles,
essays and podcasts already contributed by Duke experts—darec.duke.edu.

Lenz will share oversight of DAREC with Emma Rasiel, Duke FinTech’s associate
director. Rasiel is also a professor of the practice of economics at Duke and
director of the Duke Financial Economics Center.

“Teymour’s gift will allow us to add a post-doctoral fellow who will be the
DAREC project leader,” Rasiel said. “This, in turn, will enable the creation
of regular white papers and other commentaries on issues of the moment related
to digital assets, such as market regulation, legislation, policy issues and
other factors.”

  * Browse the DAREC library »
  * Earn a master's in Financial Technology at Duke »

## Related News

August 25, 2021

### Hot FinTech Summer

April 27, 2021

### Duke Engineering Launches Institute for Enterprise Engineering

December 14, 2020

### Industry Experts Enrich Duke FinTech’s First Year

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

