

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Data-based detective work

July 10, 2013 | by Minnie Glymph

New faculty member Guillermo Sapiro is particularly excited by the new
directions his work is taking in this highly interdisciplinary environment

Precisely planting electrodes in the most delicate regions of a patient’s
brain to still the tremors of Parkinson’s. Compressing images taken by rovers
on Mars to speed them down to earth. Tracing the outer contours of the flu
virus to find new footholds for vaccines. Changing the background in a home
video or translating black-and-white film to color with speed and ease.

It’s hard to believe that such a variety of advances could come from one
researcher, but for Guillermo Sapiro that’s just the start. The maestro of
image processing develops algorithms that interpret vast numbers of pixels
from photos or video and translate the findings into breathtaking array of
practical solutions—from medical breakthroughs to new crowd-surveillance
methods to improvements in consumer products such as Adobe’s After Effects
software.

Recently arrived at Duke from the University of Minnesota, Sapiro is
particularly excited by the new directions his work is taking in this highly
interdisciplinary environment. “At Duke it’s hard to understand which
departments people are in—and that’s a positive thing,” he said. “Most of us
have multiple appointments, so there are no boundaries.”

Among his new collaborators is Duke child psychiatrist and epidemiologist
Helen Egger, with whom he’s starting a project to improve early diagnosis of
childhood anxiety and other disorders. The effort builds on Sapiro’s earlier
work using techniques that automatically pick up on abnormal activity on
videos to detect early signs of autism.

While a clinician or daycare provider might not always recognize a brief but
significant delay in a toddler’s eye movement, say, or a lack of eye contact,
video analysis could potentially raise the red flag automatically—enabling
earlier diagnosis and intervention.

Now Egger and Sapiro will mine information from thousands of hours’ worth of
video, parent interviews, and clinical data to see if they can automate
recognition of anxiety symptoms. “If we can find patterns in the data that
point to just a few simple tests or questions that truly indicate a problem,
that would be a tremendous tool for clinicians,” he said.

Through a new Duke program called Bass Connections, undergraduates will join
the interdisciplinary research team, taking the study into local schools and
gaining valuable hands-on experience.

“It’s an exciting project because the contribution to society could be huge,”
Sapiro said.

\--from _Duke Engineering: Leading Research 2013_

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

