

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Data+ Alums Talk Career Paths and Mentoring with Duke Students

July 7, 2020 | By Kathryn Kennedy, Trinity Arts & Sciences

Lindsay Hirschhorn, '17, discussed her experiences, the role of data science
in her job and building lasting professional relationships

A panel of three Duke alumni recently joined the 2020 Data+ cohort to discuss
their experiences in the program, the role of data science in their jobs today
and the importance of building lasting professional relationships.

Data+ is a 10-week summer program that provides research experiences allowing
Duke undergraduates to explore data-driven approaches to interdisciplinary
challenges. “We’ve had quite a few students move all the way through Duke and
on to some very interesting careers,” said Paul Bendich, who helped create the
program in 2015.

The June 17 alumni panel featured:

  * Anne Driscoll ‘18, research data analyst at Stanford University
  * Lindsay Hirschhorn ‘17, data and business intelligence lead at
    delivery.com
  * Camila Vargas-Restrepo ’18, chief product officer at Trebel Music

They each described Data+ as a unique time to take a deep dive into a
meaningful project—distinct even among their other experiences at Duke.

“I liked working collaboratively on a long-term project,” said Hirschhorn, who
majored in mechanical engineering through the Pratt School of Engineering.
“That’s not something I have found in my career—to iterate on something and
see it very in-depth and detailed. I wish I had found another similar research
project after the summer ended … to work on something really deeply.”

“It feels like you’re always running out of time in college and you’re always
crunching,” Vargas-Restrepo said. “But I miss college a lot. You really get
the space to think about different things every day. After [Data+], I went
into my thesis and got into other things at Duke … but I wish I could have
made time expand and been able to keep working on this.”

> “My mentor at RTI—every time I’m looking for a job—he has become the first
> person I check in with.” —Lindsay Hirschhorn

Panelists made numerous references throughout the discussion to the lasting
partnerships created with other students and faculty project leaders. They
touted the benefits of being an engineering major paired with a peer studying
global health, or working on an environmental biology project as a psychology
and visual media studies student, in Vargas-Restrepo’s case.

“You get so many different viewpoints both within your team and about your
project,” said Driscoll, who majored in statistics. “It’s really awesome and
helpful.”

Relationships also develop through the partnering industry and nonprofit
representatives who bring challenging, real-world projects to the Data+
students.

“My mentor at RTI – every time I’m looking for a job – he has become the first
person I check in with,” said Hirschhorn.

“All these connections, I’ve carried them forward,” said Vargas-Restrepo,
referencing faculty mentors in Math and Psychology & Neuroscience. “They’ve
led me to do things that I might never have done.”

Their remarks followed a welcome from Valerie Ashby, dean of the Trinity
College of Arts & Sciences, who walked the Data+ students through her path to
university administration—highlighting the role her mentors played during
every phase of her career.

“I figured out that you don’t have to know everything to do the next thing.
[My mentors] can see things in me that I can’t see myself. They’re very honest
with me about what my strengths and weaknesses are. I speak with at least one
of them every couple weeks.”

She advised them to take full advantage of the connections they make through
Data+ and other Duke experiences.

“Build your network now, because you’re going to carry it through the rest of
your life,” Ashby said. “If you start building that now, there’s no telling
what you’ll end up doing. I’m excited about who you are going to become.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

