

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Deborah Liu Shares Experiences and Insights to Future Engineering Leaders

December 12, 2022

President and CEO of Ancestry Deborah Liu gave advice to students and faculty
during the school’s recent Board of Visitors meeting

Deborah Liu is a seasoned technology executive based in Silicon Valley. She is
currently president and CEO of Ancestry, the company at the forefront of
family history and consumer genomics. After graduating with an undergraduate
degree in civil engineering from Duke University in 1998, Liu earned her MBA
from Stanford and went on to serve on the leadership team at Facebook, where
she was the vice president of Facebook App Commerce.

On November 10, Liu gave a talk at Duke about her new book, _Take Back Your
Power: 10 New Rules for Women at Work_. The event was part of Duke
Engineering’s fall Board of Visitors weekend, which drew over 40 alumni,
parents, and friends of the program to learn about the school’s progress and
help shape its vision for the future.

> "I want students—and younger generations in general—to know that they have
> so much more power than they think they do."
>
> deborah liu

During the three-day event, attendees also heard from Dean Jerome Lynch about
Duke Engineering’s efforts to:

  * Build on its growing design-based curriculum
  * Focus on research that moves clinicians toward personalized medical
    solutions, leverages AI/robotics to improve the human condition, and
    addresses climate change
  * Develop long-term, field-defining visions for each department
  * Revamp the school’s infrastructure needs to meet these goals

The Board of Visitors also heard messages from other speakers about the
school’s push to increase diversity in its student body and faculty, as well
as its efforts to help the Christensen Family Center for Innovation push lab-
developed solutions out into the real world.

In this Q&A, Liu shares her thoughts on her experience at Duke Engineering,
the school’s efforts to equip its students to tackle the world’s grand
challenges, and her advice for future engineering leaders.

## What is the biggest idea or piece of advice you want students to take away
from your talk?

I want students—and younger generations in general—to know that they have so
much more power than they think they do. If they take the time to understand
it and learn to wield it, they can make a difference in the lives of the
people around them. You can be a great mentor, a great peer, or a great friend
to somebody, and you can really change their life without even thinking about
it.

## Is there a specific example you can provide from your own life?

Amy Klement, the Vice President of Product Management at PayPal took a chance
on me and several other people without any experience in the industry. She
changed our lives. So many people have told her that we wouldn’t be where we
are without her—people who are CEOs, founders, and senior executives of
billion-dollar companies. She was only in her early to mid-twenties at the
time, and so were we. Amy changed our lives.

## What are some of the experiences or life lessons that you learned through
your engineering degree that have helped you along your way?

I used to think that engineering school was all about hard skills and figuring
out how to do the mechanics of engineering. But the thing that actually made
the most difference from Duke was the soft skills. Those often mean the
difference between success and failure. I love that Duke really emphasized
that. It wasn't just about getting the problem sets right or understanding how
to build something, but it was also about learning how to communicate
solutions and explain why you were doing what you were doing. Because in the
end, so many failures are not actually engineering failures—they are
communication failures. I think that the most important skill an engineer has
is their ability to communicate and persuade.

## What are some of the biggest changes you’ve seen in the engineering
curriculum between when you attended and now?

I think the biggest thing is that we are looking at these global problems not
as engineering problems, but as social problems. We're looking at them through
a different lens now, and we’re asking ourselves not just, “How do we solve
this very tactical problem?” but also, “How do we look at systems?” And I
think this especially lends itself diverse points of view because having
people from different walks of life bringing in ideas for solving problems is
going to be what makes our problem-solving efforts more effective.

## What are some of the areas that you think we still have the most work yet
to do to improve on?

I think climate is going to be an incredibly important thing in the next
couple of decades, because it will make or break the planet itself. It is the
biggest challenge we face as a society, and I think Duke’s Design Climate
Initiative, and the investment in engineering as a solution to problems that
seem insurmountable, are going to be very important.

I think the other thing that's really important is, how do we actually help
people see what’s possible with humanity working together? If you look at the
greatest feats of engineering in the world—if you look at the pyramids, the
Great Wall of China, these incredible cathedrals built with almost bare
hands—you think of how engineering has helped us create such monuments to
human ingenuity and greatness. That is just such a powerful message: that we
can solve almost any problem if we really put our minds and our collective
efforts into it.

That said, even if we have the solution, if we can't convince others to
implement that solution, if we can't persuade political leaders to invest in
it, then we fail as a community. And that's why communication and influence
are so incredibly important, now more than ever.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

