

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Designing for the Future of Safe Flight, Energy Generation and National
Security

May 17, 2021 | Elizabeth Witherspoon

The sky's the limit for Duke engineers designing the safest, most cost-
efficient aircraft and turbomachinery

Lives are at stake in the work of designing the engines and airframes of
passenger airplanes, high-performance military jets and helicopters.

Engineers must perform exceptionally complicated mathematical modeling and
develop computer simulations that factor in many dynamic forces interacting
with one another–long before a test pilot enters the cockpit.

Thanks to the internationally recognized team of Aerodynamics & Aeroelasticity
faculty in Duke University’s Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering
& Materials Science (MEMS), designs are safer and more cost-efficient than
ever before.

These veterans of industry, NASA, military research centers and elite academic
institutions have deep expertise in a range of aerodynamic, aeroelasticity and
aerospace issues. Earning the field’s top honors for their contributions over
decades, the team continues to push into new domains--whether designing
aircraft to fly safely at hypersonic speeds or harvesting energy from wind
turbines for a more sustainable future here on the Earth.

Duke MEMS researchers lead in both computational and simulation development to
improve testing, as well as experimental work with physical models of
turbines, wings and frames using the department’s own low-speed wind tunnel
and the high-speed wind tunnels of NASA, the U.S. Air Force Research
Laboratory and Sandia National Laboratory. They work with elite institutions,
industry partners and collaborators around the world to deliver designs for
the future of flight, energy generation, commerce and national security.

Peers internationally have recognized the impact of this work by electing two
faculty to membership in the National Academy of Engineering and bestowing the
highest honors from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers and the
American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, among many others.
Likewise, their students continue to soar to new heights–winning design and
research awards and landing key positions at leading aerospace companies,
military laboratories, universities and NASA.

Explore the Duke MEMS aero group’s work below.

## Earl Dowell

Controlling Flutter for Safer Aircraft and Cleaner Energy

_William Holland Hall Distinguished Professor of Mechanical Engineering_

Recruited to Duke University in 1983 to serve as dean of engineering, Earl
Dowell never stops reaching higher for new knowledge. Dowell is an established
leader in computational modeling and experimentation for aeroelastic systems
in which fluids (air or water) and structures interact, particularly in
flutter. Flutter occurs when the dynamic forces of airflow interact with the
elastic body of an airplane, such as the tail or wings, leading to unstable
oscillations that can escalate to the point of catastrophic aircraft failure.
Dowell’s contributions to understanding and preventing such instability
include early seminal mathematical models and experimental data still used
decades later by researchers.

Today, with support from the National Science Foundation, Dowell is exploring
ways to create and control flutter to harvest electrical energy from
aeroelastic systems, providing potential new sources of clean power.

Dowell also is developing computational models to help the Air Force design
hypersonic aircraft with greater accuracy and confidence. He conducts low-
speed wind tunnel experiments at Duke with computations to assess the models
and helps design experiments for collaborators such as the Air Force Research
Laboratory, Sandia National Laboratory and NASA in their hypersonic wind
tunnels to perform.

> _“Flutter is critical in all flow ranges, but at hypersonic speeds the
> effects of high temperatures and rapidly changing aerodynamic forces add to
> the complexity.”_

Peers have acknowledged the impact of Dowell’s lasting work with the highest
honors in the field, including election to the National Academy of
Engineering. In 2016 the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics
conferred upon him the Reed Aeronautics Award–the highest honor an individual
can receive for notable achievement in aeronautics–for “pioneering
contributions to aeroelasticity, structural dynamics, and unsteady
aerodynamics, which have had a tremendous influence on aerospace technology.”

## Robert Kielb

Designing Turbines for Optimal Safety and Efficiency

_Professor of the Practice in Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science_

_Director,GUIde Consortium for Aeroelasticity_

_Director, THRUST Master's Degree in Engineering Program_

Robert Kielb is committed to both turbines and his students. He has spent
almost five decades contributing to new designs in gas turbines, understanding
the intricacies of how turbine blade shape affects flutter and developing
modeling and simulation tools to analyze the blades’ responses aeroelastic
forces. His worldwide collaborators rely on these tools to design safe and
efficient turbomachinery for aircraft propulsion and power generation.

Kielb directs the 30-year-old GUIde Consortium for Aeroelasticity, which
consists of 12 companies, five universities and two government organizations
that work together to solve practical challenges in controlling the vibration
of bladed disks in gas turbine engines, which both threatens safety and
increases costs.

As director of the 10-year-old THRUST MEng Program, a two-year Master of
Engineering program during which students spend a year at Duke and one at the
Swedish Royal Institute of Technology (KTH) or the University of Liège,
Belgium, and advisor to many PhD students over his two decades at Duke, he
prepares the next generation of aerospace engineers to aim even higher.

Kielb’s expertise in gas turbine engines, which he readily shares with
students, industry and academia, comes from his experience working with the
U.S. Air Force, NASA Lewis Research Center and GE Aircraft Engines as manager
of aeromechanics technology before joining Duke University. The American
Society of Mechanical Engineers recently recognized his outstanding
contributions to the field internationally with its highest honor in gas
turbines, the R. Thomas Sawyer Award–his fourth major ASME award.

> _“My students are not expected to memorize equations; the goal is full
> understanding of the fundamental physics of turbomachinery aeroelasticity.
> As Confucius said, ‘To know what you know and what you do not know, that is
> true knowledge.’”_

## Kenneth Hall

Understanding Unsteady Air Flows

_Julian Francis Abele Distinguished Professor of Mechanical Engineering &
Materials Science_

Kenneth Hall’s research focuses on understanding and modeling the behavior of
unsteady air flows and their interaction with elastic aerospace structures,
for example in the fan, compressor and turbine stages of gas turbine engines
used in aircraft and for power generation. Such unsteady aerodynamic forces
can cause unwanted and damaging blade vibrations in these engines.

Hall and his colleagues at Duke pioneered the computational fluid dynamic
method known as Harmonic Balance, which works in the frequency, rather than
time, domain to simulate complex aerodynamic flow fields. The method is useful
both in understanding the underlying physical mechanisms and in designing more
efficient, safer gas turbine engines and aerospace vehicles—while also making
computations much faster than conventional methods.

He is also currently working on a new application of system identification to
fill an important gap in the data analysis of the aeromechanic behavior of
turbomachinery compressors for the GUIde 6 Consortium. System identification
techniques use various computational techniques to estimate the important
physical properties of a system from sometimes sparse and noisy data. Together
with a colleague at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, he is using a
maximum likelihood system identification technique to deduce the structural
dynamic properties of, and the unsteady aerodynamic air loads acting on, the
blades of a compressor inferred from rotor blade vibration data collected by
researchers at Purdue University.

In other work, Hall focuses on optimizing aerodynamics to understand the
limits of birds in flight, and how to design helicopter rotors to minimize the
power needed to operate them.

Peers have recognized Hall’s work with, among other honors, election to the
National Academy of Engineering and the American Institute of Aeronautics and
Astronautics Aerodynamics Award

> _“I've been very fortunate in my career to have some great colleagues in the
> department to collaborate with, and I've had exceptional Duke students who
> have contributed significantly to my research."_

## Lawrie Virgin

Building Lighter, More Slender Aircraft

_Professor of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science_

Flight, with its many fluid forces of unpredictable wind gusts, changing air
pressure, temperature, gravity and other forces in combination with the
elastic reactions of aircraft structures, is a perfect example of a “highly
complex nonlinear dynamical system.” Lawrie Virgin is an expert in these
systems, in which reactions to forces may be exponentially greater than those
of simple linear forces, such as straight-line gravitational pull on a
stationary bridge.

Virgin develops computational models that account for these complexities to
help design lighter, more slender aircraft and prevent the catastrophic threat
of vibration fatigue. Using his background in structural engineering, he
builds and tests precise 3D-printed models of the designs in his laboratory
and conducts even more sophisticated experiments at the U.S. Air Force
Research Laboratory.

His work also has included a project for NASA to design massive one-kilometer-
square solar sails to deploy in space like an umbrella that the sun would
propel via the light force of its photons rather than by converting energy
through solar cell panels.

Virgin is currently working on an NSF-funded project to study loads and the
unpredictable weak spots of cylinders that could lead to sudden failure, not
unlike a crushed drink can. This is important to many applications in
aerospace from the fuselage of aircraft to cylindrical solid rocket boosters
for NASA.

Peers have recognized Virgin’s work by conferring upon him honors including
the John P. Davis Award for a research paper with Robert Kielb by the
International Gas Turbine Institute of the American Society of Mechanical
Engineers and the M.M. Frocht Award for outstanding achievement as an educator
from the Society for Experimental Mechanics. He is active in the classroom
teaching in the undergraduate Aerospace Certificate program.

> _“What makes it interesting for me is the constant quest to make structures
> lighter weight in aerospace.”_

## Donald B. Bliss

Modeling Vortices and Wakes for Rotorcraft and Wind Turbines

_Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science_

Donald Bliss conducts research in aerodynamics and acoustics, with an emphasis
on modeling vortex wakes for flight vehicles–primarily rotorcraft–and
horizontal- and vertical-axis wind turbines. His theoretical research seeks
physical understanding and analytical formulations that lead to more
computationally efficient solutions to real-world problems.

Vortical structures (regions of rotational motion created by the viscous
shearing motion created by the interaction of the fluid with solid surfaces,
such as wings and rotor or turbine blades) are very persistent and strongly
influence the overall flow field. Wake structures substantially change
performance and create power loss associated with the energy left behind in
the wake. Coupled together, and since the wake also interacts with itself,
vortical and wake structure problems are especially challenging analytically
and computationally.

Helicopters experience coupled wake/blade influences, where the blades pass
over their own wakes, and sometimes through them. Vortex wakes are also
especially important to understand given their effect on the performance of
wind turbines, both from their influence on the turbine that generated the
wake and due to the “wake shielding” effect in wind farms, where downwind
turbines operate less efficiently due to the wakes of upwind turbines.

Bliss’ other interests in aerodynamics include an improved analytical theory
for low-aspect-ratio wings, the prediction of air loads in unsteady supersonic
flow, and the acoustics of flight vehicle interior noise. For interior noise
acoustic modeling, Bliss has developed an accurate and efficient analysis
method that includes acoustic radiation, reflection and transmission
associated with flexible structural surfaces.

A dedicated educator, Bliss also serves as the director of undergraduate
studies in the Department of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science.

> “The creative development of new engineering methodologies, both in practice
> and in education, requires understanding the linkage between physical
> insight, mathematical analysis, and computational implementation. This
> understanding leads to accurate and efficient ways to reduce the complexity
> of engineering problems.”

## Related News

December 10, 2020

### Kielb Receives ASME’s R. Tom Sawyer Award

February 10, 2020

### Hall Elected a Member of the National Academy of Engineering

June 16, 2016

### Dowell Receives Highest Individual Honor for Achievement in Aeronautics

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

