

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Developing Novel Diagnostic Tools

October 1, 2017

BME researchers pursue new techniques to create needed diagnostic tests

**Diagnosing Dengue and Malaria**

Tuan Vo-Dinh, Director of the Fitzpatrick Institute for Photonics, the R.
Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Professor of Biomedical Engineering, and Professor
of Chemistry at Duke, is currently at work on multiple diagnostic assays for
point-of-care settings. The first is a novel biochip that can detect the
nucleic acid biotargets of infectious diseases such as the the dengue virus
using a method he has pioneered, known as surface-enhanced Raman scattering
(SERS).His team has developed a method to use a smart phone to detect color
changes in simple assays for rapid disease diagnostics in low-reource
settings.

Vo-Dinh is also collaborating with clinician Steve Taylor of the Duke Global
Health Institute to develop a novel lab-on-a-stick test that can use the SERS
method to detect malaria, a disease that affects more than 200 million people
around the globe.

**Developing Diagnostic Tools for Cancer, Eye Diseases**

BME’s Adam Wax is developing diagnostic devices that can be used to detect and
diagnose cancers without the need for a biopsy. These diagnostic tools use
low-coherence interferometry and light scattering to detect the size of cell
nuclei beneath the tissue surface, which serve as powerful indicators of pre-
cancerous conditions. Currently, Wax and his collaborators are creating
spectrometers that are made with 3D printed parts to detect cancers in the
esophagus, with the goal of using the devices to diagnose cervical cancer.

  
Wax has also developed a low-cost approach for optical coherence tomography
(OCT), a widely-used technology for early detection and diagnosis of eye-
related issues, including macular degeneration and glaucoma. OCT is a non-
invasive imaging test that uses light waves to take images of a patient’s
retina for screening purposes, but the devices that operate the technology are
expensive, and they aren’t typically used outside of large eye centers. By
developing a less-expensive, portable device for retinal imaging, Wax and Dr.
Nick Ulrich, his collaborator from UNC, are paving the way for more healthcare
providers to use OCT imaging for screening and diagnosis around the globe.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

