

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Digitizing DukEngineer

June 6, 2014 | By Ken Kingery

With the help of Duke’s Digital Production Center, every issue of DukEngineer
magazine since 1940 is now available online

When you’re perusing seven decades’ worth of prose from mostly unguided
undergraduate engineers, there are bound to be a few surprises–as the team at
Duke Libraries who digitized the entirety of the DukEngineer’s archives found.

They turned up detailed explanations of how drinking-bird toys work and
coverage of the latest egg-drop competition; lengthy technical articles on
microelectronics and aeroelasticity alongside poems celebrating spring on
campus; odes to the slide rule and earnest discussions of the newfangled
television; painstaking diagrams of complex systems and cartoons poking fun at
faculty members; jokes in questionable taste (that were routinely questioned
by administrators at the time) and even—for a few misguided midcentury years—a
Girl of the Month feature highlighting “co-eds” on campus.

One of the longest-running student publications at Duke, DukEngineer was
founded in May 1940, during the first academic year of the College of
Engineering, with the hopes (as its editor put it) that “This publication will
develop into a record of the progress at the College of Engineering.”

It began as a free, mimeographed publication, but rapidly took on a more
professional air, asking for a paid subscription of $1.00 per year and then
$1.50. There were also pages of paid advertisements in the ‘40s and ‘50s from
companies such as IBM, Westinghouse and US Steel. At the height of its
businesslike boom, the post of magazine editor was hotly contested, with
election races written up in the campus newspaper. Over the years, though, the
ads and paid subscriptions were dropped, and the pace of the issues began to
slow.

The magazine skipped a year in 1976-1977 with little more than a note in the
subsequent issue about the student volunteers getting refocused and
reorganized as an explanation. In the 1980s the publication merged with the
engineering alumni magazine; it is currently mailed free to 11,000 alumni and
friends once each year. And, of course, it’s still chronicling Duke
Engineering from the perspectives of its students.

> #### Explore the DukeEngineer Digital Collection

“It’s interesting to see how DukEngineer has changed over the years,” said
Melanie Sturgeon, librarian for engineering, physics and computer science. “It
used to be more of a social newsletter, using only people’s first names or
nicknames, and talking about clubs and societies or who got pinned or engaged.
And then there were the war years where students dressed in uniform for class
and the issues included reports about students who had been killed overseas.”

Sturgeon got a first-hand view of the publication’s metamorphosis as the lead
on the project, which began when she started making inroads in the Pratt
community as the new engineering librarian. Minnie Glymph, director of
communications for Pratt, suggested that the Library could help preserve the
history of the school by digitizing the entire DukEngineer collection in
celebration of Pratt’s 75th anniversary.

Sturgeon jumped on the idea and soon began rounding up all of the old issues.
Most were bound together in the Library Service Center, but for scanning
purposes, loose issues were preferred. Sturgeon hunted for these in the
University Archives as well as in the boxes upon boxes of old issues
collecting dust in the basement of the Teer engineering building.

When the idea was first put forth to digitize the entire canon of the student-
run DukEngineer magazine, it seemed like a straightforward proposition. The
school was celebrating its 75th anniversary, so there should be roughly 75
issues of a few dozen pages to scan into the archives.

Nobody realized that at different points in its history, the magazine had
published up to six times per year. All told, Sturgeon ended up with 205
issues comprising 9,065 pages of Duke engineering history that needed
scanning. And Duke’s Digital Production Center (DPC) was more than equal to
the task.

“The digitization of the DukEngineer wasn’t even all that big of a project for
us,” remarked Zeke Graves, a digitization specialist with Duke Libraries. “But
it certainly was an interesting one.”

After rounding up the issues, Sturgeon handed the project off to Molly Bragg,
a projects coordinator in DPC, whose digitization team relied on some good
old-fashioned German engineering to get the project completed before spring
commencement.

> #### Read more about the digitization of DukEngineer from Duke Libraries

The workhorse of the digitization process was a Zeutschel scanning machine,
which looks a bit like a gigantic modernized overhead projector. The
technician manning the station opens the document and lays it as square as
possible under a piece of glass. A horizontal line of light quickly scans down
the document while the overhead camera tracks and images its progress. Once
the light reaches the bottom, the Zeutschel is ready for the page to be
flipped so the camera can scan back up.

The scanner automatically corrects the white balance and alignment of the
document. It also automatically crops, skews and splits the pages. When
humming along smoothly, it can record up to 200 pages an hour of searchable
text, meaning that nobody has to scan through 9,065 pages to find something
specific, they can simply search for a name or keyword.

After a month’s work, the entire collection was scanned and ready to be
massaged together into a digital collection. DPC checked that all the metadata
was correct, the editions were complete and the scans were of the best quality
they could be.

Now all that’s left is for people to read it. Who knows what other sorts of
interesting artifacts are lurking in all those scanned pages?

“One of the most interesting articles I came across was on the collapse of the
Tacoma Narrows Bridge,” said Sturgeon, speaking of the ill-fated Washington
bridge that collapsed in 1940, mere months after its completion, after having
twisted and wiggled about like a Jell-O mold. “I had studied the incident as
an undergraduate in engineering, and here were Duke students in the magazine’s
second issue ever analyzing the failure and why it happened.”

It just goes to show that, even 75 years ago, Pratt students have enjoyed
finding practical solutions to problems. And writing about them—for
DukEngineer.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

