

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# All That Is Gold Is Not Biochemically Stable

August 28, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

Researchers stumble upon the lesson that typically stable gold nanoparticles
can’t always be trusted

It turns out gold isn’t always the shining example of a biologically stable
material that it’s assumed to be, according to environmental engineers at
Duke’s Center for the Environmental Implications of NanoTechnology (CEINT).

In a nanoparticle form, the normally very stable, inert, noble metal actually
gets dismantled by a microbe found on a Brazilian aquatic weed.

While the findings don’t provide dire warnings about any unknown toxic effects
of gold, they do provide a warning to researchers on how it is used in certain
experiments.

The study was published August 13 in the journal Nature Nanotechnology.

CEINT researchers from Duke, Carnegie Mellon and the University of Kentucky
were running an experiment to investigate how nanoparticles used as a
commercial pesticide affect wetland environments in the presence of added
nutrients. Although real-world habitats often receive doses of both pesticides
and fertilizers, most studies on the environmental effects of such compounds
only look at a single contaminant at a time.

For nine months, the researchers released low doses of nitrogen, phosphorus
and copper hydroxide nanoparticles into wetland mesocosms—small, manmade
structures containing different plants and microorganisms meant to represent a
natural environment with experimental controls. The goal was to see where the
nanoparticle pesticides ended up and how they affected the plant and animal
life within the mesocosm.

The researchers also released low doses of gold nanoparticles as tracers,
assuming the biologically inert nanoparticles would remain stable while
migrating through the ecosystem. This would help the researchers interpret
data on the pesticide particles that partly dissolve by showing them how a
solid metal particle acts within the system.

But when the researchers went to analyze their results, they found that many
of the gold nanoparticles had been oxidized and dissolved.

“We were taken completely by surprise,” said Mark Wiesner, the James B. Duke
Professor and chair of civil and environmental engineering at Duke. “The
nanoparticles that were supposed to be the most stable turned out to be the
least stable of all.”

After further inspection, the researchers found the culprit—the microbiome
growing on a common Brazilian waterweed called Egeria densa. Many bacteria
secrete chemicals to essentially mine metallic nutrients from their
surroundings. With their metabolism spiked by the experiment’s added
nutrients, the bacteria living on the E. densa were catalyzing the reaction to
dissolve the gold nanoparticles.

> “This is a good lesson that underscores how real, complex environments, that
> include for example the bacteria growing on leaves, can give very different
> results from experiments run in a laboratory setting that do not include
> these complexities.”

This process wouldn’t pose any threat to humans or other animal species in the
wild. But when researchers design experiments with the assumption that their
gold nanoparticles will remain intact, the process can confound the
interpretation of their results.

“The assumption that gold is inert did not hold in these experiments,” said
Wiesner. “This is a good lesson that underscores how real, complex
environments, that include for example the bacteria growing on leaves, can
give very different results from experiments run in a laboratory setting that
do not include these complexities.”

This work was done at the Duke Center for the Environmental Implications of
NanoTechnology (CEINT), which is supported by the National Science Foundation
and the Environmental Protection Agency under NSF Cooperative Agreement
EF-0830093 and DBI-1266252.

CITATION: “Gold nanoparticle biodissolution by a freshwater macrophyte and its
associated microbiome.” Astrid Avellan, Marie Simonin, Eric McGivney, Nathan
Bossa, Eleanor Spielman-Sun, Jennifer D. Rocca, Emily S. Bernhardt, Nicholas
K. Geitner, Jason M. Unrine, Mark R. Wiesner and Gregory V. Lowry. Nature
Nanotechnology, Aug. 13, 2018. DOI: 10.1038/s41565-018-0231-y

Link: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41565-018-0231-y

# # #

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

