

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# DMI Planning Retreat Peers into the Future of Materials Science

December 20, 2022

Students and faculty from every corner of campus gather to discuss the future
of materials science research at Duke

Several dozen faculty and students gathered the week before Thanksgiving to
hold the first-ever Duke Materials Initiative (DMI) planning retreat. Taking
place in Duke’s new Karsh Alumni and Visitor Center, the event featured
insightful conversation about the future of DMI and the fields of soft matter
and hard matter, as well as an innovative poster session and what everybody
agreed was a delicious spread of food and drink.

DMI’s vision is to foster innovation and sustained excellence in materials
science and engineering research and education by creating a culture that
transcends traditional departmental and school boundaries. The planning
meeting included a large contingent of faculty and students from all corners
of Duke, including physics, condensed matter and Duke’s student chapter of the
Materials Research Society.

> “DMI has grown a lot since its inception, and we can’t wait to see what the
> coming year has in store for all of us. I expect next year’s event will be
> even more successful.”
>
> christoph schmidt

The event kicked off with a quick recap of what DMI has accomplished so far,
punctuated by a rise in US News graduate program rankings, a continuing string
of excellent symposia, a half-dozen large collaborative research grants, and
overall growth in graduate students and facility capabilities. Attendees then
moved into discussions about where DMI should be heading in the future and the
trajectory of the scientific fields its working to enhance.

The energetic group provided a long list of useful feedback, including
suggestions on how often communications should be sent out; methods for
building community such as signature seminars, workshops and dinners; and
ideas for new curriculum initiatives that could draw the community closer
together. After a quick break, the retreat then moved into analyzing the
growth of its signature fields, including discussion on what the big topics
will be in the decades to come; how the field will mature in industry and
academia and how to participate in that growth; and how Duke’s facilities and
infrastructure can help support those goals.

The event concluded with a student poster session, complete with food, drink
and conversation, including a visit from Dean Jerome Lynch. Taking home top
honors for their posters were Heer Majithia, Marcello DeLuca and Behzad
Golshaei.

“Even though this was the first time we’ve done one of these events, we were
encouraged by the breadth of representation from different disciplines and the
high level of discussion we were able to create,” said Stefan Zauscher, co-
director of DMI and professor of mechanical engineering and materials science.

“We’re excited by the possibilities this event gave voice to,” added Christoph
Schmidt, co-director of DMI and the Hertha Sponer Distinguished Professor of
Physics. “DMI has grown a lot since its inception, and we can’t wait to see
what the coming year has in store for all of us. I expect next year’s event
will be even more successful.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

