

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Deterring Drones from Ballparks and Botanical Gardens

October 13, 2017

New grant exploring ways of deterring unwanted drones joins engineers with a
AAA baseball stadium and a botanical garden

To study how an outdoor public space might shoo away unwanted drone aircraft,
researchers from Duke University are teaming up with the Durham Bulls and the
Sarah P. Duke Gardens to develop a set of affordable and aesthetic guidelines
for deterring drones.

As of the end of 2016, there were already more than 600,000 hobbyist drones
registered with the Federal Aviation Administration, with many more
unregistered drones buzzing about the skies. As one of the most common uses of
drones is taking photos or video, operators are often drawn to use them at
popular venues and events, such as baseball games or botanical gardens.

As concerns for safety and privacy rise, technology is emerging for detecting
and disabling unwanted drones. For example, maturing technology exists that
detects radio signals and camera vision used by drones. Other systems can jam
the signals being sent and received by drones, or take them out of the sky
using lasers or nets.

While there are many options, they all have one thing in common—they are too
expensive or impractical for many smaller organizations. But with a new
$750,000, three-year grant from the National Science Foundation in hand, Duke
Engineering professor Mary “Missy” Cummings is looking to develop passive,
inexpensive solutions for deterring unwanted drone activity.

“We actually got the idea while trying to use drones to monitor elephants in
African sanctuaries,” said Cummings, professor of mechanical engineering and
materials science and director of the Humans and Autonomy Laboratory.

“We discovered that the noise the drones made really bothered the elephants,
so we thought that maybe we could leverage that same sound signature to detect
them,” she said.  
“And if we could detect them, maybe we could then deter them from being in
areas they’re not supposed to be.”

To help develop and test some of Cummings’s ideas, she is turning to two very
different venues in Durham, N.C. Sarah P. Duke Gardens is 55 acres of
landscaped and wooded botanical garden featuring five miles of pathways. It’s
also a favorite location for amateur drone pilots. Any sort of practical
mitigations for deterring illegal drone use would need to be inexpensive
enough to work on a daily basis.

”The natural beauty of our site is attractive to drone operators, but their
presence detracts from our visitor’s enjoyment, safety and privacy,” said Bill
LeFevre, executive director of the Duke Gardens. “With our location in the
heart of the Duke Campus, we are a perfect laboratory for this work and we are
thrilled to partner with the academic side of the institution.”

To complicate matters further, any deterrents would need to be unobtrusive
enough to not detract from the idyllic surroundings. For help on this angle of
the project, Cummings is turning to landscape architects at Clemson
University.

“When people are enjoying recreation in a public outdoor space, such as a park
or a large-scale botanical garden, the last thing they want to see is
industrial-looking features,” said Dr. Hala Nassar, who is leading the Clemson
team. “The design question then becomes how do we provide users with a sense
of safety and privacy while preserving the natural character of the outdoor
space?”

At the other end of the spectrum, the Durham Bulls Athletic Park, about two
miles from the Duke Gardens, has a much smaller footprint but often draws
crowds of more than 10,000 people.

To make matters more complicated, any illegal drones over the ballpark might
be sharing airspace with official drones being used to take pictures—or in the
future, delivering hot dogs or providing better wireless communications. On
the plus side, the ballpark’s confined space and defined event times might
give deterrents more possibilities, such as aiming lights at unwanted drones
to flood their cameras and sensors.

While the researchers won’t be able to test their deterrents at the ballpark
itself, the Durham Bulls are working to provide the next best thing—the iconic
original Durham Athletic Park stadium, eight blocks north, which was featured
in the movie Bull Durham.

“Like most new technology, drones provide an outstanding resource for
facilities and teams to utilize,” said Scott Strickland, director of stadium
operations for the Durham Bulls. “They provide a view of activities in your
facility, in addition to views of the facility itself, from a perspective only
previously available via helicopter or plane. That being said, they are also
attractive to individuals not associated with the facility,” he said.

“Finding the proper balance between utilizing the technology and keeping a
safe and secure perimeter will be an ongoing concern for facilities like ours
around the world,” Strickland said.

Over the next three years, Cummings will work with these collaborators, as
well as NC State's NextGen Air Transportation (NGAT) center and the Town of
Cary, to determine how organizations can design public spaces to promote
positive uses of drones while inhibiting pranksters and potentially malicious
pilots.

The research group will look at emerging technologies to see how they might
impact potential designs, while also taking into account cost and venue-
specific considerations.

After developing a set of potential guidelines, Cummings and her colleagues
will design solutions for the gardens and the old ballpark and test their
effectiveness with actual drones.

“Public space managers don’t often have the budget for expensive active drone
countermeasures,” said Cummings. “If strategically placed shade canopies and
trees or directed lighting can achieve effective results, we want to let
people know how best to use them.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

