

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Alumnus, Apple Innovator Eddy Cue Helps Promote DTech Program

October 25, 2017 | by Geoffrey Mock

Duke expands effort to inspire more women to enter computer science and
electrical engineering

_From Duke Today  
_

Some of the most iconic Apple products – the online store, the iTunes music
shop and the App store – came out of the work involving Duke graduate Eddy
Cue, '86, Apple's senior vice president of internet software and services.
That made him the right person to meet with the Duke Technology (DTech)
Scholars, an effort to inspire more Duke women undergraduates to choose
careers in computer science and electrical & computer engineering.

DTech provides the scholars with a variety of hands-on experiences,
internships, workshops and mentor relations to help them succeed in a field
where women remain underrepresented. The goal is to create a pipeline of women
who will thrive in a crucial industry for American society.

Cue was on campus Sept. 29 to help celebrate the expansion of the DTech
program, a joint initiative of Duke's Departments of Computer Science (CS) and
Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) launched in 2016. In meeting with
students from DTech, CS and ECE, he discussed ideas of leadership, his career
at Apple and the need for the technology industry to attract the best talent
from the most inclusive pool of experiences. "Duke changed my life," Cue told
the students.

"Everyone has certain skill sets; they just have to have opportunities to find
them and use them," Cue said. "And that's what most people don't have. When
you look at DTech, it's a problem we have in the US, and it's something we
want to address so women have the same opportunities in technology in men."

Below, two DTech Scholars talk about Eddy Cue’s visit and how DTech is opening
opportunities for them in their field. Catherine Wood is a senior mechanical
engineering student with an ECE minor. **Nigel Malaba** , a Duke MasterCard
Foundation scholar, is an electrical and computer engineering senior.

_Q. How has DTech been valuable in attracting you to this field and helping
you stay on course?_

**Catherine Wood:** When DTech was first launched I was already fully invested
in pursuing a degree in mechanical engineering. However, as a sophomore with
little experience, it was very difficult to find an internship — much less an
internship in the Bay Area. DTech helped open doors for me that I didn’t even
know existed. They introduced me to Carbon, where I interviewed and received
an internship position. I returned there as an intern this past summer as
well.

**Nigel Malaba:** The program did attract me to software engineering. I was
already studying electrical and computer engineering but had not thought of
the fact that I can actually be a software engineer. Being a part of the
program has exposed me to the technical world through my internship at Aeris
in Silicon Valley. Being surrounded by software engineers in addition to being
one myself gave me an understanding of how and what a software engineer does
as well as the option that I can become a software engineer.

_Q. There’s a strong focus on mentorship in the program. How has that been
useful to you?_

**Catherine Wood:** I have now been a part of DTech for two summers and have
been assigned two mentors. Both of my mentors have been amazing. My mentor
from the first summer I still talk to on a bi-weekly basis and I feel like I
am developing a relationship with her that will last hopefully much longer
than my college career. More than anything, both of my mentors have provided
an outlet to talk to and bounce ideas off of that are not my parents. They
have provided guidance that has taught me how to interact and communicate with
people in a more formal context.

**Nigel Malaba:** Having a mentor over the summer was one of the best aspects
of the program. My mentor was Monica Kumar, the VP of database at Oracle. She
was an amazing support and really cared about my well-being during my
internship. She was deeply invested in my career interests--she set up a
meeting for me with the VP of product management at Oracle as I had expressed
interest in being a PM at some point in my career. She introduced me to
amazing people in the valley and gave me invaluable advice throughout my
summer experience.

_Q. Where are you finding barriers in these fields and how is the program
helping you with those?_

**Nigel Malaba:** I definitely still struggle with software interviews and
it's because I need more practice with computer science as I have focused more
on hardware in my ECE career. As much as I can solve problems and become a
great software engineer on the job, I still find it difficult to go through
the conventional interviews offered by most tech companies. So, I have made
the decision to shift my focus to other areas of tech such as hardware
engineering in which I have the skills to succeed. I am passionate about
integrated circuit design and building electrical systems and that's what I'm
looking to do as a career immediately after graduation.

_Q. What has been valuable about the summer program?_

**Catherine Wood:** On top of the internship and mentorship aspects of the
program, one of the most valuable aspects of this program is the housing
component. Each scholar is assigned to a house with 7-9 other scholars who are
also interning in the Bay Area. What is great about this aspect of the program
is that I got to come home every day to people sitting around the kitchen
table just chatting about work or life. It was unbelievably helpful to have
that immediate support system when you came home. Since we were all going
through similar situations, it was easy to bounce ideas off of each other and
brainstorm how to solve problems at work. It’s hard to quantify how valuable
having a strong community back at home is, but it really makes all the
difference in the world.

_Q. What do you value about the opportunity to interact with people like Eddy
Cue?_

**Catherine Wood:** When people give talks, they normally have something that
they want to say. However, what is unique about this experience is that we got
to ask him questions. And while I am sure that he has answered all of these
questions a hundred times and probably has his answers down pretty well — it
is an opportunity for us to really shape what our interaction with him is
like. I think it is also just an incredible experience to actually get to talk
to someone who has succeeded in the tech industry for so long and really get
to understand more about his journey and the lessons that he learned along the
way.

**Nigel Malaba:** Meeting Eddy Cue for lunch was really exciting for me! It
reminded me of the time I met Gayle McDowell through DTech. _[_ _Gayle
McDowell is the author of “Cracking the Coding Interview” who had dinner with
DTech students at her house this past summer.]_ Eddy Cue gave very insightful
advice about entering the technology field and told us his background as a
computer science major at Duke. He was very casual as he conversed with us and
that allowed us to give him our feedback about the program and share our
experiences as DTech scholars as well as our career aspirations.

Learn more about DTech at dtech.duke.edu.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

