

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Students Create Robot for Amazon Challenge

July 17, 2017

Team heading to Japan for international competition of robotics experts

_FromDuke Today_

_Story by Rebekkah Huss, video by Julie Schoonmaker_

A group of Duke graduate students is heading to Nagoya, Japan, this month to
test their skills in the Amazon Robotics Challenge, part of RoboCup, an
international scientific initiative to advance intelligent robots.

Organized by faculty at the Pratt School of Engineering, Duke’s team is
composed of students from a variety of disciplines including biomedical
engineering, electrical and computer engineering, mechanical engineering,
computer science and physics. They were selected as finalists this past
November 2016 for the competition that begins July 27.

They are one of 16 teams from universities and research institutes from around
the world tackling the challenge of building and programming robots capable of
picking up items and packing them in boxes.

The teams will pit their robots in a test that will include object
recognition, grasping objects, motion planning and task execution. The robots
will earn points based on how many items are successfully picked up and stowed
in a fixed amount of time. The teams will also discuss their approaches with
the judges.

After an 8th place finish last year, Team Duke’s faculty adviser Kris Hauser
said he is excited to once again take his team to the state-of-the-art
robotics competition. This time around he believes the team can place at least
in the top five, and has encouraged his students to shoot for the win.

“This is really the quintessential robotics challenge. It's a very complicated
system that needs to be put together,” Hauser said.

The key technical challenge, he said, is to design a robot that can accomplish
what human pickers do in warehouses millions of times a day--automatically
recognize and pick up thousands of different objects, not just a few known
ones.

“Robots in factories are typically custom-engineered only to pick up one type
of object, but our system must be able to cope with a wide variety of objects
and situations,” he said. “You need to have perception melded with hardware
melded with planning and all of these different components have to be working
together.”

For the students, captained by Duke BME PhD student Mark Draelos, this
challenge is an opportunity to fill Amazon’s real need for a warehouse sorting
robot while gaining experience and insights into product development that may
help them in their careers.

Fan Wang is Team Duke’s motion planning lead, which means she is responsible
for giving the robot the tools it needs to decide how and where to move.
“We’re doing a lot of improvement on sensing and smart computation so the
robot can do warehouse stocking and other tasks automatically,” said Wang, a
graduate student in electrical and computer engineering.

One goal of the Amazon competition is to push researchers to find solutions to
real world problems, all with a spirit of international competition and
collaboration. At Duke, that goal has been met. Wang said the students are
excited to go up against the best in the field and to challenge themselves
with a complex and innovative project.

“This is a challenge I’ve never encountered before. I think after working on
this I’ll have a lot of insights of how it’s done in industry,” Wang said.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

