

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Undergrads Explore Nanoscience Research

August 21, 2017 | By Mary-Russell Roberson

Students make amazing things on a minuscule scale through a special program at
Duke’s Shared Materials Instrumentation Facility (SMIF)

Through a unique grant program, Pratt School of Engineering undergraduates are
getting their hands dirty—or, rather, keeping them extremely clean—in Duke’s
advanced Shared Materials and Instrumentation Facility (SMIF).

Located in the Fitzpatrick Center at Duke University, the SMIF houses a
cleanroom as well a wealth of specialized equipment for fabrication,
characterization, and imaging of micro- and nanoscale objects.

The resources of SMIF are available to Duke faculty, outside researchers,
entrepreneurs, and students through the Research Triangle Nanotechnology
Network—making it a hub for groundbreaking research related to improving human
health, developing new materials and more.

> “Not many universities have an onsite cleanroom, much less the ability for
> undergrads to work in that cleanroom.”
>
> Sean Kelly, Duke Undergraduate Student

Its innovative organizational structure pools resources, so that Duke
nanoscience and materials researchers and the students who work with them can
access more highly advanced equipment than they could obtain with just their
own individual project funding.

All students taking the required electrical and computer engineering class ECE
230L are introduced to SMIF through class activities in the cleanroom, a
special workspace with a highly filtered environment just like that used to
manufacture computer chips.

But, through the SMIF Undergraduate User Program (SUUP) supported by the Lord
Foundation, Duke students can apply for the opportunity to get a whole year’s
worth of hands-on research experience through access to the extensive
technological resources in SMIF.

Getting undergraduates into SMIF is a priority for Nan Jokerst, the executive
director of SMIF and J. A. Jones Professor of Electrical and Computer
Engineering at Pratt.

“When students are aware of this facility they can begin to imagine inventing
or creating things at micro- and nanoscales,” she said. “They can imagine how
they might use this in a research project with a faculty member.”

The SUUP supports an “idea to implementation” experience, where undergraduate
students commit to participating in research with a faculty member. Interested
students and their faculty sponsors submit research proposals, with projects
selected based on the quality of ideas and the impact access to SMIF will have
on their projects. Preference is given to multidisciplinary efforts.

Mark Walters, director of SMIF, said the Lord Foundation grant covers the
facility fees for time the undergraduate students work in SMIF. Importantly,
this removes an obstacle for faculty who want to involve undergrads in SMIF-
based research. Over 50 students from the Pratt School of Engineering and
across campus participated in the program this year.

“One of the benefits for undergrads is when they graduate from Duke, not only
do they have a Duke education, they also have experience working in a lab like
this,” Walters said. “It’s a real feather in their cap.”

  * To find out more about the program and learn how to apply, download a call
    for proposals from the SMIF website.

### Kay Palopoli: Learning Electron Microscopy

Biomedical engineering major Kay Palopoli used the scanning electron
microscope (SEM) in SMIF to analyze tiny flexible electrodes designed to be
implanted in laboratory animal brains.

“We want to see how long these electrodes can survive in these wet
conditions,” she said. “The longer, the better, so we can carry out long-term
experiments with rats.”

Eventually, electrodes like these could be used in humans to predict epileptic
seizures or control prosthetic limbs. To simulate brain conditions, Palopoli
put the electrodes in saline and turned up the heat to about 60 celsius (140
degrees Fahrenheit). A month at that temperature is analogous to five months
at body temperature. After electrode failure, she used the SEM to find out
what happened to it.

Palopoli worked in the lab of Jonathan Viventi, assistant professor of
biomedical engineering and neurology, whose research includes designing brain-
sensing technologies. After graduating in May 2017 with departmental honors,
Palopoli began graduate studies in biomedical engineering.

The electrode arrays she worked with were no bigger than 5 millimeters by 5
millimeters – not quite a fifth of an inch square. In that area, there are 61
individual contacts. She used the SEM to get extremely high-resolution images
before and after the testing.

“We’re trying to figure out the failure point,” she said. “Did the contacts
peel off? Did the gold corrode away?”

Working with the SEM gave Palopoli a skill that will come in handy in graduate
school. What’s more, the independence and trust the SMIF staff placed in her
gave her confidence as a young researcher.

“They train you and then let you use the equipment on your own,” she said.
“It’s been really valuable to be able to carry out every portion of the
project on my own.”

### Zach Brown: Fabricating Experimental Medical Devices

Zach Brown is using SMIF’s cleanroom to design a drug delivery system
consisting of an array of tiny biodegradable needles.

The microneedles penetrate the outer layer of skin, releasing a peptide (a
small protein) as they degrade. The peptide activates the body’s mast cells,
which signal immune cells to convene and attack a skin infection.

The notion of using this peptide as an alternative to antibiotics originated
in the lab of Soman Abraham, a professor of pathology in the Duke University
School of Medicine.

“Our quandary was how to deliver the peptides into the skin,” Abraham said.
“That was the task Zach had.”

Microneedles are being used in other applications, but Brown had to come up
with a new design for this purpose.

A senior biomedical engineering (BME) major, Brown approached BME professor
Fan Yuan for advice, and also met with SMIF staffers Jay Dalton and Talmage
Tyler, who talked him through different methods that might achieve what he
wanted to do.

“We did deep literature searches on how to make structures of this size and
geometry, and figured out a process for making them,” Brown said. He’s been
testing the microneedles on mice and is continuing to refine the product.

“It’s been a great engineering education,” he said. “I’ve learned a lot of
really cool technical skills.It’s reconfirmed to me I can figure out tough
problems, given the resources and time and people to ask for help.”

Another benefit of Zach’s work has been the blossoming of a collaboration
between Abraham, an immunologist, and Yuan, a biomedical engineer.

“Zach is the one who actually brought us together,” Abraham said. “I’m really
happy about that.”

### Sean Kelly: Mastering Photolithography

Sean Kelly, a junior majoring in mechanical engineering, makes very tiny
designs on silicon chips in SMIF’s cleanroom.

The 25-by-75 millimeter chips (about 1 inch by 3 inches) are etched with
nearly 4,000 tiny compartments, each of which can hold a single cell. The idea
is that researchers could observe the response of many individual cancer cells
to a potential drug, for example.

“We use the cleanroom for the production of our chips because we’re working on
such a small scale that any little piece of dust can cause part of the chip to
clot,” Kelly said.

To make the channels and compartments on the chip, Kelly uses
photolithography, which involves using light to engrave a pattern onto a
silicon wafer.

Making these chips is part of Kelly’s work in the lab of Benjamin Yellen,
associate professor of mechanical engineering and materials science at Pratt.
Lab members use piezoelectric devices to create standing waves in fluid-filled
microchannels on the chip. Then they add cancer cells, which because of their
acoustic properties are “pushed” by the waves toward individual compartments.

Kelly, who has another year of undergraduate student to complete, is
considering continuing his study of mechanical engineering in graduate school.
He expects his SMIF experience will serve him well there and beyond.

“Having that kind of experience makes you stand out a bit,” he said. “Not that
many universities have an onsite cleanroom, much less the ability for
undergrads to work in that cleanroom.”

### Ji Won Park: Making Microchannels to Study Red Blood Cells

Senior Ji Won Park works in the lab of Adam Wax, professor of biomedical
engineering. Wax and members of his lab use spectroscopy and other imaging
techniques to observe cells and tissues and detect cancerous and pre-cancerous
lesions.

In SMIF’s cleanroom, she is working on a project with one of Wax’s graduate
students, Han Sang Park.

Ji Won Park makes microchannels and attaches them to microscope slides. Using
these slides and an instrument called a Quantitative Phase Microscope, it’s
possible to observe how individual red blood cells squeeze into the channels.

“We can see what happens on a nanoscale,” she said. “It’ll give us a better
sense of how blood cells respond to external forces.” This work could have
implications for how blood is transfused during surgery, for example.

In a project of her own, she used SMIF’s scanning electron microscope while
building an instrument called a white light interferometer. This project was a
continuation of work she started while interning at SLAC National Accelerator
Laboratory at Stanford University the previous summer.

Park relishes the hands-on experience she’s gained at SMIF, which complements
the experience she’s had with theory and simulation while double-majoring in
physics and math.

“The BME project gave me an exposure to hardware and instrumentation,” she
said. “It can be frustrating not getting the results from multiple trials but
it gave me the belief that if you sit on it for long enough, eventually you’ll
figure it out. For me that was the most important lesson through the whole
process.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

