

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke, NC State Co-Host National Engineering Forum Regional Dialogue

March 27, 2014

Article courtesy of the National Engineering Forum

__

In Raleigh Wednesday night, the National Engineering Forum (NEF), along with
North Carolina State University and Duke University, hosted a regional
dialogue aimed at finding solutions to the top challenges facing American
engineering. The dialogue brought together executive-level representatives
from industry, academia and government to discuss challenges facing America’s
engineering enterprise.

“The National Engineering Forum is committed to advancing our nation’s
engineering enterprise and addressing the challenges it faces, which we call
the 3C’s—capacity, capability and competitiveness,” said Steve Betza, director
of advanced manufacturing and development at Lockheed Martin. “These dialogues
are spurring strategic actions necessary to ensure our nation has highly
skilled engineers to innovate solutions for the future. Raleigh-Durham is on
the leading edge of innovation as the new home of our nation’s Next Generation
Power Electronics Innovation Institute within the National Network for
Manufacturing Innovation.”

“As one of the nation’s largest and most preeminent colleges of engineering,
we have a critical role in educating and preparing future engineers,” said
Louis Martin-Vega, dean of NC State’s College of Engineering. “We are pleased
to continue our cooperative partnership with Duke and host this dialogue on
advancing engineering at all levels, from kindergarten through graduate
school.”

“Duke’s school of engineering is proud to co-host the Raleigh-Durham
dialogue,” said Tom Katsouleas, dean of the Pratt School of Engineering at
Duke University. “How our country prepares its next generation of engineers
matters, and NEF recognizes that we need strong partnerships among educational
institutions, industry and policymakers to develop engineering solutions to
society’s 21st century problems.”

The Raleigh–Durham area is a key player in American engineering and was chosen
for its significant role in biomedical research, IT, clean tech, and energy
and smart grid innovations.

“Part of what makes North Carolina’s Research Triangle region so special is
the proximity of major research universities to technology companies, which
has fostered a high level of collaboration and generated advances in cutting-
edge fields like biotech, emerging energy and green manufacturing. We’re
excited about the opportunity the dialogue provides to build on those
relationships to move our region and the nation forward,” Katsouleas said.

Chad Evans, executive vice president of the Council on Competitiveness, says
NEF’s regional dialogues in the nation’s engineering hubs are building a
community of action and will culminate in a cornerstone national event.

“In a globally competitive environment characterized by turbulence, transition
and transformation, a sure thing on which America can count is its engineering
prowess. Engineering is the creative engine at the heart of our nation’s
productivity and prosperity—providing us the energy to overcome challenges and
seize on the opportunities for future growth,” said Evans. “The National
Engineering Forum’s purpose is to bring together leaders across all sectors of
our society—industry, academia, labor, national laboratories, government
leaders and media—to partner and foster the environment in which engineering
can continue to thrive and lead to the innovative solutions at the heart of
competitiveness.”

Martin-Vega agreed. “Collaboration and interdisciplinary research and
education are key to solving society’s greatest engineering challenges. As the
lead institution on two National Science Foundation Engineering Research
Centers, NC State demonstrates the power of inter-institutional partnerships.
NEF is another great example of how industry, government and academia can work
together to develop a better path forward to economic growth and societal
progress,” he said.

NEF regional dialogues have been held in 11 cities and is preparing to
announce more for the 2014 series.

**About the National Engineering Forum**

The National Engineering Forum (NEF) brings together leaders concerned about
the sustainability of the United States engineering field and the impact on
the nation’s security and prosperity. NEF involves industry executives,
academics, policymakers, media, engineering societies and nonprofits to
develop solutions to the challenges facing the U.S. engineering enterprise.
For more on NEF, visit: nationalengineeringforum.com or follow us on Twitter
@NatlEngForum.

**Media contact**

Melissa Mathews  
202-969-3410  
media@nationalengineeringforum.com

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

