

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Engineering Celebrates Class of 2015

May 11, 2015

Duke University awarded degrees to 441 undergraduate and graduate engineering
students on Saturday and Sunday, May 9 and 10, in ceremonies that began with
diploma ceremonies for professional masters degree students, continued with a
university-wide commencement exercises at Durham Bulls Athletic Park and
included Pratt School of Engineering celebrations at Cameron Indoor Stadium.

Adding to students who graduated in September and Fall of 2014, this brings
the total engineering Class of 2015 up to 644. Watch the 2015 engineering
diploma ceremony.

Humanitarian and 1982 Duke graduate Paul Farmer delivered the University’s
commencement address, while Pratt Dean Tom Katsouleas and Morgan Simons,
senior class president, spoke at the undergraduate engineering school
ceremonies on Sunday. Students Lian Liu, Bradley Echols, Igor Tregub and Joel
Ayala addressed the MEM and MEng graduates at the Diploma Ceremony on
Saturday.

Katsouleas awarded Bachelor of Science in Engineering diplomas to 285 students
(295 total for the Class of 2015). He also presented diplomas to 63 Master of
Science and 32 PhD engineering graduates (a Class of 2015 total of 106 and 66
total, respectively). Watch the 2015 Master of Science degree hooding
ceremony.

Forty-three Master of Engineering Management and 18 Master of Engineering
degrees were awarded on May 10 (total graduates of those programs for the
academic year, including September and Fall 2014, were 137 and 40,
respectively). Watch the 2015 MEM hooding ceremony.

Overall, Duke awarded degrees to about 5,100 undergraduate, graduate and
professional degrees to students who are graduating this spring. Students who
graduated in September or December 2014 were invited to participate in
Sunday's commencement.

**The university Class of 2015 posed for a high-detail photo taken with a
250-megapixel camera developed by a team led byDavid Brady, Michael J.
Fitzpatrick Professor of Photonics:**

Many Pratt graduates received special prizes or awards:

**Katherine Elizabeth Brock, Zhiyu Jiang and Logan Wang Su – The Walter J.
Seeley Scholastic Award**  
The Walter J. Seeley Scholastic Award is presented annually by the Engineering
Student Government to the member of the graduating class of the School who has
achieved the highest scholastic average in all subjects, and who has shown
diligence in pursuit of an engineering education. The award was initiated to
honor the spirit of academic excellence and professional diligence
demonstrated by the late Dean Walter J. Seeley. The ESG hopes that this award
will serve as a symbol of the man and the ideals for which he stood.

**Isa Louise Ferrall and Benjamin French Spilsbury –The Otto Meier, Jr. Tau
Beta Pi Award**  
The Otto Meier, Jr. Tau Beta Pi Award is presented in recognition of Dr.
Meier’s leader ship in establishing the North Carolina Gamma Chapter on
January 10, 1948, and his continuous service until April 19, 1975, as Chapter
Advisor. This award is given annually to the graduating Tau Beta Pi member who
symbolized best the distinguished scholarship and exemplary character required
for membership.

**Anna Elizabeth Knight – Pratt School of Engineering Student Service Award**  
Established in 1978, the Pratt School of Engineering Student Service Award is
given to graduating seniors who, by contributions of time, effort and spirit,
have significantly benefitted the community of the School of Engineering.

**Kevin Francis Keppel and Kevin J. Liang – The da Vinci Award**  
The da Vinci Award is presented to the Biomedical Engineering student with the
most outstanding academic record as determined by a faculty committee. The
award commemorates the contribution of Leonardo da Vinci in laying the
foundations of the mechanistic study of human life.

**Samantha Melinda Perez – The Helmholtz Award**  
The Helmholtz Award is given to graduating seniors who present the best
research projects as judged by the departmental faculty. The award
commemorates the work of Hermann von Helmholtz in laying the foundation of
Biomedical Engineering.

**Natalie S. Fahey – The Theo C. Pilkington Memorial Award**  
The Theo C. Pilkington Memorial Award was established in 1993 by the Whitaker
Foundation as an endowment award in memory of Dr. Theo C. Pilkington, founding
chairman of the Department of Biomedical Engineering at Duke University. The
recipient is selected at the end of the junior year and the award is given in
recognition of outstanding perseverance and accomplishment in the study of
biomedical engineering.

**James Thomas Flynn and Zachary Samuel Wiener – The ASCE Outstanding Senior
Prize**  
The ASCE Outstanding Senior Prize is presented annually by the North Carolina
Section of ASCE to a graduating civil engineering senior, or seniors, in
recognition of an exceptional, positive impact on the student chapter of ASCE
and scholastic record.

**Katherine Elizabeth Brock – The William Brewster Snow Environmental
Engineering Award**  
The William Brewster Snow Environmental Engineering Award, established in
1979, is presented annually to seniors who have demonstrated academic
excellence, interest, and enthusiasm in the study of environmental
engineering.

**Katherine Elizabeth Brock and Zhiyu Jiang – The Aubrey E. Palmer Award**  
The Aubrey E. Palmer Award, established in 1980, is presented annually to a
civil engineering senior in recognition of outstanding academic achievement.
Selection is made by the faculty of the Department of Civil and Environmental
Engineering.

**Stephanie Nicole Laughton – The Eric I. Pas Award**  
The Eric I. Pas Award, established in 1998 in memory of Dr. Eric Pas, former
Director of Undergraduate Studies in Civil and Environmental Engineering, is
presented to the graduating civil engineering senior judged by the faculty to
have conducted the most outstanding independent study project.

**Ryan Elliott Fishel and Alex Cameron Morrill – The David Randall Fuller
Prize**  
The David Randall Fuller Prize for Achievement in Electrical and Computer
Engineering is presented annually to the graduating senior who has shown the
most improvement in academic performance over the first three years.

**Kevin J. Liang and Logan Wang Su – The George Sherrerd III Memorial Award**  
The George Sherrerd III Memorial Award in Electrical and Computer Engineering
is awarded annually to the senior in electrical and computer engineering who,
in the opinion of the Electrical and Computer Engineering Faculty, has
attained the highest level of scholastic achievement in all subjects and
simultaneously has rendered significant service to the School of Engineering
and the University at large. The award was established in 1958 by the parents
of George Sherrerd III, a graduate of the Class of 1955, to recognize
outstanding undergraduate scholarship.

**Yaqi Zhang – The Charles Ernest Seager Memorial Award**  
The Charles Ernest Seager Memorial Award recognizes the most outstanding
undergraduate research project and presentation as judged by the faculty in
Electrical and Computer Engineering as part of the Graduation with Distinction
presentation session. The award was established in 1958 by the widow and
friends of Charles Ernest Seager, a graduate of the Class of 1955.

**Xavier de Gunten and Leeviana Peng Gray – The Charles Rowe Vail Memorial
Outstanding Undergraduate Teaching Award**  
The Charles Rowe Vail Memorial Outstanding Undergraduate Teaching Award,
established in 1997 by former students and colleagues of Charles Vail, a
graduate of the class of 1937, professor from 1939-1967, and chair of the
Department of Electrical Engineering from 1956-1964, recognizes the most
outstanding undergraduate teaching assistant in the Department of Electrical
and Computer Engineering.

**David Thomas Rosenberg – The Pi Tau Sigma Scholarship Award**  
The Pi Tau Sigma Scholarship Award in memory of T.C. Heyward, Sr., is
presented annually by Pi Tau Sigma to an outstanding senior in Mechanical
Engineering at Duke University. Selection is based on academic excellence,
engineering ability, and leadership, and is chosen by a committee of the
engineering faculty.  
 **  
Alexander Mieszko Radek – The Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science
Faculty Award**  
The Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science Faculty Award is presented
annually in recognition of academic excellence to the graduating Mechanical
Engineering seniors who have attained the highest level of scholastic
achievement as determined by the faculty.

## Students Graduating with Departmental Distinction Awards

**Biomedical Engineering**

  * Yeong-Ran Ahn*
  * Dillon Tanner Arey*
  * Bianca Bracht
  * Samuel David Butensky
  * Kendall Marie Covington
  * Justin Jeng-Young Fu*
  * Anna Elizabeth Knight
  * Lin Liao*
  * Mengyun Lu
  * Andrew David Lynch
  * Samuel Spence McCachren III*
  * Matthew Robert Morgan*
  * Michael Marvin Rees*
  * Liangbo Shen**
  * Morgan Geraghty Simons
  * Claire Marie Regan Vannelli
  * Vignesh Vudatha
  * Taylor Doores Waanders*
  * Jenny Yao*
  * Ananya Zutshi*

*The Howard G. Clark Award  
**Edward D. Light “Ned” Memorial Award

**Civil Engineering**

  * Mona Qi Dai
  * Stephanie Nicole Laughton
  * Mahkayla Mariah McKenzie
  * Clay Michael Sanders

**Electrical and Computer Engineering**

  * Brian Emmett Bolze
  * Gregory Humberto Canal
  * Minhazul Islam
  * Paul Hyung Suk Kim
  * Thomas Philip Klebanoff
  * Kevin J Liang
  * Gift Nyikayaramba
  * Anshuman Prasad
  * Yaqi Zhang

**Mechanical Engineering**

  * EeShan Chetan Bhatt
  * Emily Fitch Briere
  * Danielle Leigh Colson
  * Isa Louise Ferrall
  * Lucas Andrew Johnston
  * Taylor Rose Laub
  * Kevin Hao Ma
  * Kevin Michael Nikolaus
  * Crystal Elaine Owens
  * Lauren Joy Silverstein
  * Mikayla Margaret Wickman

## Diploma Ceremony Videos

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

