

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Engineering Celebrates the Class of 2013

May 21, 2013

A team of Duke engineers used one of the most powerful cameras ever developed
to photograph the commencement ceremony

Duke University awarded degrees to 527 undergraduate and graduate engineering
students on Sunday, May 12 in ceremonies that began with university-wide
commencement exercises at Wallace Wade Stadium and included Pratt School of
Engineering celebrations at Cameron Indoor Stadium and Duke Chapel.

A team of Duke engineers led by David Brady used one of the most powerful
cameras ever developed to photograph the 2013 commencement ceremony. See the
big picture and watch how they did it.

Melinda Gates delivered the University’s commencement address, while Pratt
Dean Tom Katsouleas and Senior Class President Tejen Ajay Shah spoke at the
undergraduate engineering school ceremonies. Associate Dean Bradley Fox
addressed graduates of Pratt's professional master's programs. (See sidebar
for videos of the ceremonies.)

Katsouleas awarded Bachelor of Science in Engineering diplomas to the Class of
2013, which comprised 297 students. He also presented diplomas to 109 Master's
of Science and 58 PhD engineering graduates. Sixty-one Master of Engineering
Management and 14 Master of Engineering degrees were also awarded on May 12
(total graduates of those programs for the academic year, including Fall 2012,
were 150 and 35, respectively).

Overall, Duke awarded degrees to 1,641 undergraduates and 2,215 graduate and
professional students. An additional 1,212 students that graduated in
September or December 2012 were also invited to participate in Sunday’s
commencement.

Many Pratt graduates received special prizes or awards:

**Jennifer Eugenia Villa--The Walter J. Seeley Scholastic Award**

The Walter J. Seeley Scholastic Award is presented annually by the Engineering
Student Government to the member of the graduating class of the School who has
achieved the highest scholastic average in all subjects, and who has shown
diligence in pursuit of an engineering education. The award was initiated to
honor the spirit of academic excellence and professional diligence
demonstrated by the late Dean Walter J. Seeley. The ESG hopes that this award
will serve as a symbol of the man and the ideals for which he stood.

**Jake Anthony Sganga -- The Otto Meier, Jr. Tau Beta Pi Award**

The Otto Meier, Jr. Tau Beta Pi Award is presented in recognition of Dr.
Meier’s leader ship in establishing the North Carolina Gamma Chapter on
January 10, 1948, and his continuous service until April 19, 1975, as Chapter
Advisor. This award is given annually to the graduating Tau Beta Pi member who
symbolized best the distinguished scholarship and exemplary character required
for membership.

**Jennifer Eugenia Villa--The da Vinci Award**

The da Vinci Award is presented to the Biomedical Engineering student with the
most outstanding academic record as determined by a faculty committee. The
award commemorates the contribution of Leonardo da Vinci in laying the
foundations of the mechanistic study of human life.

**Jinchin Liu and Manoj Venkat Maddali --The Helmholtz Award**

The Helmholtz Award is given to graduating seniors who present the best
research projects as judged by the departmental faculty. The award
commemorates the work of Hermann von Helmholtz in laying the foundation of
Biomedical Engineering.

**Dazhong Xuan -- The Theo C. Pilkington Memorial Award**

The Theo C. Pilkington Memorial Award was established in 1993 by the Whitaker
Foundation as an endowment award in memory of Dr. Theo C. Pilkington, founding
chairman of the Department of Biomedical Engineering at Duke University. The
recipient is selected at the end of the junior year and the award is given in
recognition of outstanding perseverance and accomplishment in the study of
biomedical engineering.

**James Morgan Dolan and Andrew David Jones--The ASCE Outstanding Senior
Prize**

The ASCE Outstanding Senior Prize is presented annually by the North Carolina
Section of ASCE to a graduating civil engineering senior, or seniors, in
recognition of an exceptional, positive impact on the student chapter of ASCE
and scholastic record.

**Grace Sea Anne Cambareri, Hunter Callum Douglas, and Kala Valli Viswanathan
--The William Brewster Snow Environmental Engineering Award**

The William Brewster Snow Environmental Engineering Award, established in
1979, is presented annually to seniors who have demonstrated academic
excellence, interest, and enthusiasm in the study of environmental
engineering.

**Laura Gabriela Oteiza--The Aubrey E. Palmer Award**

The Aubrey E. Palmer Award, established in 1980, is presented annually to a
civil engineering senior in recognition of outstanding academic achievement.
Selection is made by the faculty of the Department of Civil and Environmental
Engineering.

**Kathryn Brunet Latham--The Eric I. Pas Award**

The Eric I. Pas Award, established in 1998 in memory of Dr. Eric Pas, former
Director of Undergraduate Studies in Civil and Environmental Engineering, is
presented to the graduating civil engineering senior judged by the faculty to
have conducted the most outstanding independent study project.

**John Richard Jamieson III--The David Randall Fuller Prize**

The David Randall Fuller Prize for Achievement in Electrical and Computer
Engineering is presented annually to the graduating senior who has shown the
most improvement in academic performance over the first three years.

**William Joseph Scheideler--The George Sherrerd III Memorial Award**

The George Sherrerd III Memorial Award in Electrical and Computer Engineering
is awarded annually to the senior in electrical and computer engineering who,
in the opinion of the Electrical and Computer Engineering Faculty, has
attained the highest level of scholastic achievement in all subjects and
simultaneously has rendered significant service to the School of Engineering
and the University at large. The award was estab lished in 1958 by the parents
of George Sherrerd III, a graduate of the Class of 1955, to recognize
outstanding undergraduate scholarship.

**Likun Xi--The Charles Ernest Seager Memorial Award**

The Charles Ernest Seager Memorial Award recognizes the most outstanding
undergraduate research project and presentation as judged by the faculty in
Electrical and Computer Engineering as part of the Graduation with Distinction
presentation session. The award was established in 1958 by the widow and
friends of Charles Ernest Seager, a graduate of the Class of 1955.

**Chen Zhao--The Charles Rowe Vail Memorial Outstanding Undergraduate Teaching
Award**

The Charles Rowe Vail Memorial Outstanding Undergraduate Teaching Award,
established in 1997 by former students and colleagues of Charles Vail, a
graduate of the class of 1937, professor from 1939-1967, and chair of the
Department of Electrical Engineering from 1956-1964, recognizes the most
outstanding undergraduate teaching assistant in the Department of Electrical
and Computer Engineering.

**Constandi John Shami--The Pi Tau Sigma Scholarship Award**

The Pi Tau Sigma Scholarship Award in memory of T.C. Heyward, Sr. is presented
annually by Pi Tau Sigma to an outstanding senior in Mechanical Engineering at
Duke University. Selection is based on academic excellence, engineering
ability, and leadership, and is chosen by a committee of the engineering
faculty.

**Christine De Vries Dalton and Jake Evan Greenstein--The Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science Faculty Award**

The Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science Faculty Award is presented
annually in recognition of academic excellence to the graduating Mechanical
Engineering seniors who have attained the highest level of scholastic
achievement as determined by the faculty.

**Emmanuel Gocheco Lim--The Raymond C. Gaugler Award**

The Raymond C. Gaugler Award in Materials Science and Engineering is awarded
to the senior who has made the most progress at Duke in developing competence
in materials science or materials engineering. The basis for selection is the
student’s scholastic record, research or design projects completed at Duke,
and interest in a materials-related career. The award has been established by
Patricia S. Pearsall in memory of her grandfather, Mr. Raymond C. Gaugler, who
was president of the American Cyanamid Company prior to his death in 1952.

## Graduation Videos

**Students Graduating with Departmental Distinction Awards:**

**Biomedical Engineering**

*Jennifer Marie Arnold, *Halei Collette Benefield, *Timothy Andrew Carlon,
Albert S. Chang, Jack Chen, Janghwan Cho, Hyun Koo Chung, *Stephanie Odette
Dudzinski, Joseph Mina Elsakr, Daniel Jack Frush, Caitlin Marie Guenther, Gill
Ryang Kang, Min Sung Kim, Sophia Yoona Kim,Hersh Ketan Lakdawala, Jonathan Li,
Jinchin Liu, Manoj Venkat Maddali, Michael Joseph Madigan, Michael John
Maranzano, *Rahul K Nayak, Pichet Praveschotinunt, Juan Diego San Juan, *Evan
Alexander Seidel, *Jake Anthony Sganga, Tejen Ajay Shah, Joseph Thomas
Sharick, Sarek Alexander Shen, **Kevin Shia, Margret Diane Smith, Tiffany
Tseng, Jennifer Eugenia Villa, Jennifer Min Wang, *Tianxiang Xiong, Steven
Karl Yarmoska, *Sophia Natalie Ziemian

*The Howard G. Clark Award

** Edward D. Light “Ned” Memorial Award

**Civil Engineering**

Grace Sea Anne Cambareri, Hunter Callum Douglas, Christine Elizabeth Larson,
Kathryn Brunet Latham, Kala Valli Viswanathan

**Electrical and Computer Engineering**

Ash-girl Chapfuwa, Alexander Timothy Mariakakis, Likun Xi

**Mechanical Engineering**

Christine De Vries Dalton, Jake Evan Greenstein, Jeremy David Hockman, Joseph
Anthony Lauer Jr., Emmanuel Gocheco Lim, Constandi John Shami, Mukarram Ahmad
Tahir, Adam John Williams

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

