

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Engineering Celebrates the Class of 2022

May 8, 2022

Dean Jerome P. Lynch challenged the newest Duke Engineers to make the world
more resilient and more just

During May 6-8, Duke's Pratt School of Engineering recognized and celebrated
the 730 members of its Class of 2022.

On May 8, Vinik Dean of Engineering Jerome P. Lynch convened the first in-
person awards and diploma ceremony for Duke Engineering undergraduates since
2019.

### Class of 2022

  * Videos »
  * Photos »
  * Facts & figures »
  * Awards & honors »

In remarks, Lynch congratulated the class on their resilience and grit during
the pandemic. He also noted the Class of 2022 is the first to complete four
years of Duke Engineering's signature student experience.

"This has given you unique capabilities to apply your fundamental engineering
skills more readily to create breakthrough technologies that have clearer and
more immediate pathways to practice," he said, speaking to graduates and their
friends and loved ones gathered in Cameron Indoor Stadium.

## Congratulations from Dean Lynch

> “So, my newest engineering colleagues, go forth to change the world for the
> better—make it more resilient and more just. We are counting on you to
> succeed. So go forth boldly and proudly!"
>
> **Jerome P. Lynch** | Vinik Dean of Engineering

Lynch challenged the Class of 2022 to use their skills and creative talents to
advance the common good. He advised that they seek just and equitable
solutions for the grand challenges facing society, including issues such as
rapid urbanization, acceleration of climate change and the spread of
antibiotic-resistant pathogens.

"As global change introduces higher levels of disparities across our global
communities, we must be extremely thoughtful about who are the beneficiaries
of our solutions with the aspiration to advance the common good," Lynch said.
"This demands an all-hands-on-deck approach—meaning you must immerse yourself
in diverse teams that allow you to leverage the wealth of identity,
perspective, and experience to fuel the creative process that leads to
technological discovery."

Emma Steadman '22, president of Engineering Student Government, spoke during
the ceremony as the representative of her classmates.

"On this day, we should celebrate our successes, mourn what we lost, and honor
all the ways in which we have persisted," said Steadman, a mechanical engineer
from Williamsville, NY. "Let us celebrate being one the most resilient classes
that Duke University has ever had."

##

## At a Glance—Duke Engineering Class of 2022

  * **289**  
Bachelor of Science in Engineering

  * **39**  
Master of Engineering Management—Online

  * **60**  
Master of Engineering Management—Campus

  * **107**  
Master of Engineering

  * **133**  
Master of Science

  * **102**  
PhD

In-person hooding ceremonies celebrating those earning degrees of Master of
Engineering, Master of Science and Master of Engineering Management were also
held during Duke's Commencement 2022 weekend—the fullest in-person celebration
schedule since the beginning of the pandemic.

The undergraduate ceremony saw awards given to students for achievements in
academics, service and research. There were special recognitions of the Pratt
Research Fellows, Katsouleas NAE Grand Challenge Scholars, Duke BME Design
Fellows—and the graduation of Duke's first class of A. James Clark Scholars.

Beyond the Duke campus, hundreds of families and friends around the world
watched a live stream of the Duke Engineering undergraduate ceremony broadcast
over YouTube.

## Awards and Honors

### PhD Awards

#### Department of Biomedical Engineering

##### Doctoral Dissertation Award

  * Chelsea Fries
  * Micong Li

* * *

#### Department of Civil & Environmental Engineering

##### Outstanding Scholar Award

  * Josin Tom
  * Imari Walker Karega

* * *

#### Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering

##### Outstanding Dissertation Award

  * Zhongxi Li

##### Outstanding Service Award

  * Huanrui Yang

* * *

#### Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science

##### Outstanding Dissertation Award

  * Gary Hu
  * Shujie Yang

* * *

##### Engineering Graduate Student Council Service Award

  * Anna Knight (BME)
  * Lidea Shahidi (ECE)
  * Xin Song (ECE)
  * Joseph Rufo (MEMS)
  * Hegde Shreyas (MEMS)

* * *

##### PhD Plus Program Service Award

  * Mohammadreza Momenfar (CEE)
  * Joana Sipe (CEE)
  * Jonsin Tom (CEE)
  * Imari Walker Karega (CEE)

### Undergraduate Awards

#### Major External Awards

##### Marshall Scholarship

  * James Michael Marek

#### Pratt School Awards

##### Walter J. Seeley Scholastic Award

_Presented annually by the Engineering Student Government to the member of the
graduating class who has achieved the highest scholastic average in all
subjects, and who has shown diligence in pursuit of an engineering education.
Initiated to honor the spirit of academic excellence and professional
diligence demonstrated by the late Dean Walter J. Seeley._

  * George Hong
  * James Michael Marek
  * Juliet Amallia Marzella Yznaga

##### Otto Meier, Jr. Tau Beta Pi Award

_Presented in recognition of Dr. Meier’s leadership in establishing the North
Carolina Gamma Chapter on January 10, 1948, and his continuous service until
April 19, 1975, as the chapter advisor. Given annually to the graduating
member of Tau Beta Pi who best symbolizes the distinguished scholarship and
exemplary character required for membership._

  * Rebecca Ann Lau

##### Pratt School of Engineering Student Service Award

_Established in 1978 and given to graduating seniors who, by contributions of
time, effort and spirit, have significantly benefitted the community of the
Pratt School of Engineering._

  * Chishamiso Zano Chideya
  * Philip Wang Liu

* * *

#### Biomedical Engineering

##### da Vinci Award

_Presented to the Biomedical Engineering senior with the most outstanding
academic record, as determined by a faculty committee. Commemorates the
contributions of Leonardo da Vinci in laying the foundation of the mechanistic
study of human life._

  * John Douglas Boom

##### Helmholtz Award

_Given to a graduating senior who presents the best research project, as
judged by department faculty. Commemorates the work of Hermann von Helmholtz
in laying the foundation of biomedical engineering._

  * Michael Qianjun Tian

##### Edward D. "Ned" Light Memorial Award

_Given to a Pratt Research Fellow in biomedical engineering with the best
engineering design project, as judged by a faculty committee. Established in
2012 in memory of Ned Light, who worked for at Duke 22 years —pioneering
research in real-time 3D ultrasound imaging and mentoring a host of
undergraduate students both in the lab and in life skills._

  * Arushi Biswas
  * Caroline Grace Salzman

##### Theo C. Pilkington Memorial Award

_Established in 1993 by the Whitaker Foundation as an endowment award in
memory of Dr. Pilkington, founding chairman of the Department of Biomedical
Engineering. The recipient is selected at the end of the junior year and the
award is given in recognition of outstanding perseverance and accomplishment
in the study of biomedical engineering._

  * Ramona Sonia Naseri

* * *

#### Civil & Environmental Engineering

##### American Society of Civil Engineering Outstanding Senior Prize

_Presented annually to a graduating civil engineering senior in recognition of
an exceptional, positive impact on the Duke student chapter of the American
Society of Civil Engineering._

  * Valerie Tsao

##### William Brewster Snow Environmental Engineering Award

_Established in 1979 and presented annually to seniors who have demonstrated
academic excellence, interest, and enthusiasm in the study of environmental
engineering._

  * Qingqi Katherine Li
  * Zehua Wang

##### Aubrey E. Palmer Award

_Established in 1980 and presented annually to a civil engineering or
environmental engineering senior in recognition of outstanding academic
achievement. Selection is made by the faculty of the Department of Civil &
Environmental Engineering._

  * James Michael Marek

##### Eric I. Pas Award

_Established in 1998 in memory of Dr. Pas, former director of undergraduate
studies in Civil & Environmental Engineering, and presented to the graduating
civil or environmental engineering senior judged by the faculty to have
conducted the most outstanding independent study project._

  * Qingqi Katherine Li
  * Jenny Z Liang

* * *

#### Electrical & Computer Engineering

##### David Randall Fuller Prize for Achievement in Electrical and Computer
Engineering

_Presented annually to the graduating senior who has shown the most
improvement in academic performance over the first three years._

  * Isabella Michelle Knox

##### George Sherrerd III Memorial Award in Electrical and Computer
Engineering

_Awarded annually to the senior in electrical and computer engineering who, in
the opinion of the Electrical & Computer Engineering Faculty, who has attained
the highest level of scholastic achievement in all subjects and has
simultaneously has rendered significant service to the Pratt School of
Engineering and the university at large. Established in 1958 by the parents of
Class of 1955 graduate George Sherrerd III, to recognize outstanding
undergraduate scholarship._

  * Alexander Xinliang Oesterling
  * Juliet Amallia Marzella Yznaga

##### Marie Foote Reel Undergraduate Research Award

_Awarded each year to the most outstanding undergraduate research project and
presentation as judged by the faculty in Duke Electrical & Computer
Engineering as part of the Graduation with Departmental Distinction
presentation session. Established in 2021 in honor of electrical engineer
Marie Foote Reel '46, one of the first women to graduate from Duke’s College
of Engineering._

  * Doherty Guirand

##### Charles Rowe Vail Memorial Outstanding Undergraduate Teaching Award

_Established in 1997 by former students and colleagues of Charles Vail, a
graduate of the Class of 1937, a professor from 1939-1967, and chair of the
Department of Electrical Engineering from 1956-1964, recognizes the most
outstanding undergraduate teaching assistant in the Department of Electrical &
Computer Engineering._

  * Sanika Girish Gupte

* * *

#### Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science

##### Pi Tau Sigma Scholarship Award

_Established in memory of T.C. Heyward, Sr., and presented annually by Pi Tau
Sigma to an outstanding senior in Mechanical Engineering at Duke. Selection by
a committee of the engineering faculty is based on academic excellence,
engineering ability, and leadership._

  * Zhiting Mei
  * Shannon Cassidy Smith

##### Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science Faculty Award

_Presented annually in recognition of academic excellence to the graduating
Mechanical Engineering seniors who have attained the highest level of
scholastic achievement, as determined by the faculty._

  * Jack Edward Horton
  * Vincent Yuchen Wang

##### Raymond C. Gaugler Award in Materials Science & Engineering

_The Raymond C. Gaugler Award in Materials Science and Engineering recognizes
the senior who made the most progress in developing competence in materials
science or materials engineering. The basis for selection is scholarship
record, research or design projects completed at Duke, and interest in a
materials-related career. The award was established by Patricia S. Pearsall in
memory of her grandfather, who was president of American Cyanamid Company
prior to his death in 1952._

  * Rebecca Ann Lau

### Graduated with Departmental Distinction

#### Biomedical Engineering

_* The Howard G. Clark Award_

  * John Douglas Boom
  * Molly Antara Chakraborty
  * Leandro Christian Choi
  * Grace Ellen Dessert*
  * Yesh Satyajit Doctor
  * Rishabh Jain*
  * Gabrielle Kathryn Marushack*
  * Ramona Sonia Naseri
  * Ethan J Nicklow*
  * Jonathan Jude Shamindra Edward Perera*
  * Zewei Shi
  * Claire Szuter
  * Michael Qianjun Tian
  * Simone Adrienne Wall*
  * Jaclyn Zhimei Xiao

* * *

#### Civil & Environmental Engineering

  * Qingqi Katherine Li
  * Jenny Z Liang
  * Zehua Wang

* * *

#### Electrical & Computer Engineering

  * Guangyu Feng
  * Simon Gorbaty
  * Doherty Guirand
  * Adrian Lopez
  * Megan Elisabeth Lee Richards
  * Alex Quan Xu
  * Michael Yuanyi Xue

* * *

#### Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science

  * Jonathan Donald Inge
  * Leaf C Kalikow
  * Rebecca Ann Lau
  * Zhiting Mei
  * Shannon Cassidy Smith

### Undergraduate Fellows and Scholars

#### A. James Clark Scholars

  * Filip Bartel
  * William Chase Carlson
  * Lingyi Fu
  * Marcellus Anthony Jordan III
  * Philip Wang Liu
  * Sophie Rubin
  * Hosam Tagel-Din
  * Kayana Tyson
  * Christian Welch
  * Juliet Amallia Marzella Yznaga

* * *

#### Pratt Research Fellows

  * William Chase Carlson
  * Yi Chen
  * Leandro Christian Choi
  * Phoebe Sarah Dijour
  * Ankitha Durvasula
  * Rishabh Jain
  * Rebecca Ann Lau
  * Qingqi Katherine Li
  * Gabrielle Kathryn Marushack
  * Zhiting Mei
  * Ethan J Nicklow
  * Alexander Xinliang Oesterling
  * Kevin Ryan Peng
  * Katherine Dejing Tang
  * Michael Qianjun Tian
  * Danielle Iman von Briesen
  * Simone Adrienne Wall
  * Everett M Werner
  * Daniel Wei Zhang
  * Celina Gu Zhou
  * Yi Zhou

* * *

#### Katsouleas NAE Grand Challenge Scholars

  * Arushi Biswas
  * John Douglas Boom
  * Anish G. Karpurapu
  * Rebecca Ann Lau
  * Qingqi Katherine Li
  * Jonathan Jude Shamindra Edward Perera
  * Michael Qianjun Tian
  * Valerie Tsao
  * Simone Adrienne Wall

* * *

#### Biomedical Engineering Design Fellows

  * Jake Emmett Cariello
  * Harshitavenkat Devisetty
  * Phoebe Sarah Dijour
  * Tinatin Gergaia
  * Sanika Girish Gupte
  * Rebecca Duncan Hogewood
  * Khue Thanh Huynha
  * Jacob Benjamin Key
  * Rachel Lopez
  * Jack Clifford Nastas
  * Jonathan Jude Shamindra Edward Perera
  * Caroline Grace Salzman
  * Zewei Shi
  * Haley Elena Snyder
  * Claire Szuter
  * Vanessa Tam
  * Zachary David Edwin Thomson
  * Kayana Tyson
  * Manav Mayank Vakil
  * Jingyi Xin

## Related News

May 11, 2022

### Duke's Inaugural Class of A. James Clark Scholars Graduate With Rave
Reviews

May 05, 2022

### The Student Experience: Research Intensives

April 01, 2022

### The Class of 2022’s First Bond

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

