

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke First-Year Designers Get a Lift from Skanska

December 18, 2019

The company constructing Duke’s newest engineering building challenged
engineering students to solve a tricky safety problem

After listening, thinking and prototyping, the student design team decided
that the heart of their safety-device solution would be a $150 repair lift for
dirt bikes.

“We had to modify it significantly,” said design teammate Tevyn Fudge, a
first-year Duke Engineering student. “But the jack stand fit all of our
criteria.”

The problem they were solving is a significant one and related to a worrying
issue of construction worker injuries.

The solution was their culminating project in the innovative EGR 101 course,
known as First-Year Design. Taken by all Duke Engineering first-year students,
EGR 101 challenges budding engineers to design solutions to authentic problems
posed by real-world clients.

For this team, the client was Skanska, the multinational construction company
and builder of Duke’s New Engineering Building.

“The timing and placement couldn’t have been more perfect,” said Skanska’s
Evan Reilly, an innovation and virtual design and construction (VDC) engineer
and 2016 Duke Engineering graduate. “Skanska is always looking for new ideas
to improve worker safety and productivity, and the building site was so close
to their classroom.”

The problem Skanska engineers brought was the limitations of the scissor lift,
a motorized, hydraulic platform used to help workers reach high places.
Although often used in place of stationary scaffolding, scissor lifts are not
maneuverable enough to reach into congested ceiling spaces, and workers are
often tempted to climb safety railings to reach tight spots. Across the
country, injuries and deaths from falls have resulted.

At the start of the fall semester, Reilly and Skanska environmental health and
safety director Boris Kiprovski pitched the construction safety problem to the
class of 350 students. The Skanska team’s presentation stressed the need for
innovative thinking to design a new device. It had to provide at least 4 feet
of extra reach; be easily set up, portable and durable; and meet company,
industry and U.S. government safety regulations.

Fudge and fellow first-year students Michael Wood, Daniel Bolja, Marcus Deans
and Nigel Veach accepted the challenge.

> “The team built something quite impressive. Each iteration of their idea got
> better and better.”
>
> Steve McClelland  
> Executive in Residence and the team's lead instructor

“We started brainstorming, and just thought about everything that might work,
including out-there ideas like magnetic levitation,” Veach said. “Then, we
each scored each idea on how likely it was to fit Skanska’s design criteria
and our budget.”

An interim design, for which they built a tabletop model, raised a platform
with cords and pulleys—but was rejected as potentially hazardous.

Their final solution is a worker-sized platform, with safety railings and
ample room for a worker to reach overhead, bolted securely atop the modified
motorbike lift. Control rods connect the worker to the lift’s pump-action
hydraulic cylinder, which raises and lowers the cage.

“The team built something quite impressive,” said McClelland, the team's lead
instructor. “Each iteration of their idea got better and better.”

Throughout, the students received support and advice from faculty advisors and
technical mentors, including Steven McClelland, executive-in-residence for
Duke Engineering’s student entrepreneurship programs and himself a Duke
Engineering graduate. Also assisting the team were Jennifer West, Fitzpatrick
Family University Distinguished Professor of Engineering, Joseph Nadeau,
professor of the practice of civil and environmental engineering, and
Elizabeth Bucholz, assistant professor of the practice of biomedical
engineering.

> “I loved being able to be creative in designing a solution and then building
> it with my own hands. EGR 101 solidified for me that I want to be an
> engineer.”
>
> Michael Wood  
> First-year engineering student

The project was scoped by Ann Saterbak, professor of the practice of
biomedical engineering and director of the Duke Engineering First-Year
Experience.

Throughout EGR 101, students learn to prototype, make presentations and work
as a team. Student surveys also suggest the experience boosts confidence,
which engineering education researchers term “self-efficacy.”

On a sunny day near the end of the semester, Skanska agreed to let the
students put their final prototype on the deck of an actual scissor lift.
Outside the Skanska site trailer, the students learned another valuable
lesson—precise measurement. It didn’t fit, the bottom plate too wide by only a
few eighths of an inch.

“We have learned so much from interacting with experienced engineers,” said
Wood, undeterred as he conferred with the team on how to make the device
slightly slimmer. “I loved being able to be creative in designing a solution
and then building it with my own hands. EGR 101 solidified for me that I want
to be an engineer.”

First-Year Design at Duke

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

