

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Engineering Launches ‘Athena’ Center for AI and Edge Computing

November 19, 2021

The new center’s kickoff event featured a showcase of proposed edge computing
projects

The AI Institute for Edge Computing Leveraging Next Generation Networks, or
“Athena,” kicked off November 17-18 at Duke University with a showcase of
proposed research. The new center, first announced in August 2021, is funded
by a five-year, $20 million grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF)
and Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and led by Duke professor of
electrical and computer engineering Yiran Chen. Athena will leverage AI and
edge computing technologies and next-generation networked systems in its quest
to reimagine future mobile devices.

“AI has truly been a driving force in many modern innovations, spanning
materials, medicine, health care and finance. Devices are now linked to
mission-critical services, and the edge computing powered by AI offers
tremendous opportunities not only in research and education, but in many
industrial sectors and entrepreneurship,” said Duke University Provost Sally
Kornbluth in her address to attendees. “This has become of great interest to
us here at Duke and is one of the pillars of our new Duke Science and
Technology Initiative.”

AI powers four thrust areas comprising Athena’s research portfolio:
networking, computer systems, AI, and services and applications. Collaborating
researchers from Duke, MIT, NC A&T, Princeton, University of Michigan,
University of Wisconsin, and Yale gave short “spotlight” presentations of
their proposed edge-computing research and educational and outreach plans to
colleagues as well as government and industry collaborators at the kickoff
event.

“The partnerships that have been created for Athena are spectacular and will
enable transformational advances that are significantly greater than the sum
of individual investigations. It’s a real honor for Duke Engineering to be
leading this exciting effort, and we appreciate the trust that’s been put in
us by NSF, DHS and our collaborators,” said Interim Dean of Duke Engineering
Jeffrey Glass in remarks.

> “The partnerships that have been created for Athena are spectacular and will
> enable transformational advances that are significantly greater than the sum
> of individual investigations."
>
> Interim Dean of Duke Engineering Jeffrey Glass

Glass added that Athena is charged with much more than developing new
technology. “In addition to utilizing research for the benefit of society, we
have a great responsibility to ensure that the technology being developed is
for diverse users, and that education is paramount in all our activities,” he
said, noting that Athena includes a robust initiative dedicated to cultivating
a diverse next generation of technical leaders who will ensure the ethical and
fair use of AI.

Learn more about Athena

## Related News

November 19, 2021

### Duke Engineering Launches ‘Athena’ Center for AI and Edge Computing

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

