

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Team's Undersea Robot Competes for $7 Million in Ocean Discovery XPRIZE
Contest

March 17, 2017

Less than five percent of Earth’s seafloor has been mapped and explored, but a
team of Duke University students is racing to change that.

_Originally posted by the Nicholas School of the Environment_

Less than five percent of Earth’s seafloor has been mapped and explored, but a
team of Duke University researchers is racing to change that.

They’re also racing for $7 million in prizes.

The Blue Devils Ocean Engineering team – comprised of faculty and students
from Duke’s Nicholas School of the Environment and Pratt School of Engineering
– is one of 21 international research teams selected to compete in the 2017
Shell Ocean Discovery XPRIZE, co-sponsored by Royal Dutch Shell and the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).

Each team must develop a robotic vehicle that uses autonomous underwater
scouting technology to investigate, map, and conduct science at extreme ocean
depths and under stringent time constraints.

The winning team will net $4 million. Second place will take home $1 million.
And the ten teams that make it to the final round of competition will split
another $1 million.

There’s also a bonus $1 million up for grabs to the team whose robot is most
capable of tracing a biological and chemical signal to its hidden source on
the ocean floor.

The Duke team is led by Douglas Nowacek, Repass-Rodgers Associate Professor of
Conservation Technology; Martin Brooke, associate professor of electrical and
computer engineering; and Tyler Bletsch, professor of the practice in
electrical and computer engineering.

Currently there are 50 students involved in the project.

Their entry uses unmanned aerial vehicles – or drones – that will drop and
scatter sonar-capable pods into the ocean. Once they sink to the bottom, the
remote-controlled pods will create 3D maps of the sea floor. They will then
resurface, and be retrieved by the drones.

The competition will be held in two rounds. In round one, each team’s device
will need to submerge 6,500 feet below the surface and map at least 20 percent
of the sea floor in a designated test area covering 193 square miles – or
about ten times the size of Manhattan. At these depths, pressures on the
robots can reach 2,800 pounds per square inch.

The probes will be required to produce topographical maps with at least five
meters horizontal resolution, and a half a meter of vertical resolution. Teams
will also be required to identify and image at least five archaeological,
biological, or geological features their drones encounter, such as sunken
ships, aquatic creatures, or seamounts.

Total time allowed to complete this round of the challenge is 16 hours.

The ten top-performing teams will advance to the final round, in which the
drones will have 24 hours to map at least 50 percent of the seafloor and
identify ten underwater features at another site 13,000 feet below the
surface.

Most of the students involved in the team are taking senior design classes in
electrical and computer engineering (ECE) or mechanical engineering and
materials science, well as ECE 449 “Sensor and Sensor Interfaces” and ECE 496
“Advanced Robotic System Design.”

A team of nine students, both undergraduate and graduate, attended the XPRIZE
summit held earlier this year in San Diego to present the Duke team’s entry to
the competition judges. These students were Sam Kelly, Henry Quach, Kelsey
Evezich, Lucia Martos Jimenez, Allen Bento, Jonathan Buie, Peter Murphy IV,
Kalee Hicks and Vaishakhi Mayya. Mayya will also lead a Data+ program this
summer to work on the data analysis for the contest.  
###

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

