

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Engineering Celebrates the Class of 2020

May 14, 2020

We proudly recognize more than 800 undergraduate and graduate engineering
students who were awarded academic degrees from Duke this month.

The Pratt School of Engineering proudly recognized more than 800 undergraduate
and graduate engineering students who were awarded academic degrees from Duke
University this month. Despite a delayed commencement due to the coronavirus
pandemic, school faculty, staff, alumni and fellow students celebrated the
graduates' achievements during the May 10 launch of Duke University's global
multimedia experience, "Marking the Moment: Duke 2020."

## 20 Memories + 20 Wishes for Our 2020 Graduates

There are 283 members of the undergraduate Duke Engineering Class of
2020—including those who earned degrees last September and December. Those
earning school and departmental awards, graduating with departmental
distinction, and as Pratt Research Fellows, BME Design Fellows and NAE Grand
Challenge Scholars were honored through special announcements from faculty to
their students. Browse Class of 2020 awards and honors

For the 2019-2020 academic year, Pratt School of Engineering graduate students
were awarded:

  * 83 PhDs
  * 222 Master of Science (MS) degrees
  * 168 Master of Engineering Management (MEM) degrees, in both on-campus and
    distance programs
  * 71 Master of Engineering (MEng) degrees

Altogether, the Duke Engineering Class of 2020 includes 827 graduates.

## Congratulations from Dean Bellamkonda

> “As you look ahead, maybe in the short term you see some turbulent waters.
> But please know, you are Duke Engineers. You are precisely the kind of
> people that the world needs today—well-informed, creative, analytical,
> thoughtful, skillful and most of all, able to put knowledge in service of
> society. I have no doubt you will be productive, happy and successful, no
> matter what you choose to do or where you choose to do it. And you will
> always be part of the Duke family.”
>
> —Dean Ravi Bellamkonda

## Awards and Honors

Click to view

### PhD Awards

### Department of Biomedical Engineering

#### Doctoral Dissertation Award

  * Bridget M. Crawford

  * Joshua Black

  * Michael Dzuricky

* * *

### Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

#### Outstanding Scholar Award

  * Amalia Turner

* * *

### Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

#### Outstanding Dissertation Award

  * Joseph Andrews
  * Junfei Li

* * *

### Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

#### Doctoral Dissertation Award

  * Rudy Geelen
  * Luis Navarro

#### Student Leadership Award

  * Amy King

#### Mentoring & Teaching Award

  * Betul Teymur

#### Model Researcher Award

  * Kevin McHugh
  * Peiran Zhang

* * *

### Leadership Awards

#### Outstanding Service to the Engineering Graduate Student Council

  * Samagya Banskota
  * Mao Mao
  * Trisha Lee Dupnock
  * Aarthi Sridhar
  * Savannah Volkoff
  * Yaying Feng
  * Amy King
  * Michael Lee
  * Weston Allan Ross
  * Matthew Tedesco

#### Outstanding Service to PhD Plus

  * Michael James Dzuricky
  * Mao Mao

### Master's Awards

### Department of Biomedical Engineering

#### Excellence in Master of Science Studies

  * Xingrui Mou

#### Excellence in Master of Engineering Studies

  * Tong Shen

* * *

### Department of Civil & Environmental Engineering

#### Outstanding Master of Engineering Student Award

  * Linzhan Tang

#### Outstanding Master of Science Student Award

  * Ying Zu

* * *

### Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering

#### Outstanding Master's Student Award

  * Xinyi Gong
  * Simiao (Ben) Ren

### Undergraduate Awards

### Pratt School Awards

#### Walter J. Seeley Scholastic Award

_Presented annually by the Engineering Student Government to the member of the
graduating class who has achieved the highest scholastic average in all
subjects, and who has shown diligence in pursuit of an engineering education.
Initiated to honor the spirit of academic excellence and professional
diligence demonstrated by the late Dean Walter J. Seeley._

  * Samantha Rebecca Archer
  * Sarah Catherine Bland
  * Claire Jie Dong
  * Ian Keith Eldridge-Allegra
  * Angus Li
  * William Ming Tian
  * Chris Jiayang Zhou

#### Otto Meier, Jr. Tau Beta Pi Award

_Presented in recognition of Dr. Meier’s leadership in establishing the North
Carolina Gamma Chapter on January 10, 1948, and his continuous service until
April 19, 1975, as the chapter advisor. Given annually to the graduating
member of Tau Beta Pi who best symbolizes the distinguished scholarship and
exemplary character required for membership._

  * Feroze Kamal Mohideen
  * August Tianyin Ning

#### Pratt School of Engineering Student Service Award

_Established in 1978 and given to graduating seniors who, by contributions of
time, effort and spirit, have significantly benefitted the community of the
Pratt School of Engineering._

  * Iris Yuting Chang
  * Samuel Robert Lester

* * *

### Biomedical Engineering

#### da Vinci Award

_Presented to the Biomedical Engineering senior with the most outstanding
academic record, as determined by a faculty committee. Commemorates the
contributions of Leonardo da Vinci in laying the foundation of the mechanistic
study of human life._

  * Claire Jie Dong
  * Angus Li
  * William Ming Tian
  * Chris Jiayang Zhou

#### Helmholtz Award

_Given to a graduating senior who presents the best research project, as
judged by department faculty. Commemorates the work of Hermann von Helmholtz
in laying the foundation of biomedical engineering._

  * Chris Jiayang Zhou

#### Edward D. "Ned" Light Memorial Award

_Given to a Pratt Research Fellow in biomedical engineering with the best
engineering design project, as judged by a faculty committee. Established in
2012 in memory of Ned Light, who worked for at Duke 22 years —pioneering
research in real-time 3D ultrasound imaging and mentoring a host of
undergraduate students both in the lab and in life skills._

  * Aditi Madan Pilani

#### Theo C. Pilkington Memorial Award

_Established in 1993 by the Whitaker Foundation as an endowment award in
memory of Dr. Pilkington, founding chairman of the Department of Biomedical
Engineering. The recipient is selected at the end of the junior year and the
award is given in recognition of outstanding perseverance and accomplishment
in the study of biomedical engineering._

  * Bradley Robert Foster

* * *

### Civil and Environmental Engineering

#### American Society of Civil Engineering Outstanding Senior Prize

_Presented annually to a graduating civil engineering senior in recognition of
an exceptional, positive impact on the Duke student chapter of the American
Society of Civil Engineering._

  * Rachael Ellen Lau

#### William Brewster Snow Environmental Engineering Award

_Established in 1979 and presented annually to seniors who have demonstrated
academic excellence, interest, and enthusiasm in the study of environmental
engineering._

  * Alexander William Weck

#### Aubrey E. Palmer Award

_Established in 1980 and presented annually to a civil engineering or
environmental engineering senior in recognition of outstanding academic
achievement. Selection is made by the faculty of the Department of Civil and
Environmental Engineering._

  * Kathryn Anne White

#### Eric I. Pas Award

_Established in 1998 in memory of Dr. Pas, former director of undergraduate
studies in Civil and Environmental Engineering, and presented to the
graduating civil or environmental engineering senior judged by the faculty to
have conducted the most outstanding independent study project._

  * Tiffany Michelle Wei

* * *

### Electrical and Computer Engineering

#### David Randall Fuller Prize for Achievement in Electrical and Computer
Engineering

_Presented annually to the graduating senior who has shown the most
improvement in academic performance over the first three years._

  * Joshua Robert France
  * Aditya Prasad Mathur

#### George Sherrerd III Memorial Award in Electrical and Computer Engineering

_Awarded annually to the senior in electrical and computer engineering who, in
the opinion of the Electrical & Computer Engineering Faculty, who has attained
the highest level of scholastic achievement in all subjects and has
simultaneously has rendered significant service to the Pratt School of
Engineering and the university at large. Established in 1958 by the parents of
Class of 1955 graduate George Sherrerd III, to recognize outstanding
undergraduate scholarship._

  * Feroze Kamal Mohideen
  * Junyu Liang

#### Charles Ernest Seager Memorial Award

_Recognizes the most outstanding undergraduate research project and
presentation, as judged by the faculty in Electrical & Computer Engineering as
part of the Graduation with Distinction presentation session. Established in
1958 by the widow and friends of Charles Ernest Seager, a graduate of the
Class of 1955._

  * Samantha Rebecca Archer
  * Siyuan Chen

#### Charles Rowe Vail Memorial Outstanding Undergraduate Teaching Award

_Established in 1997 by former students and colleagues of Charles Vail, a
graduate of the class of 1937, a professor from 1939-1967, and chair of the
Department of Electrical Engineering from 1956-1964, recognizes the most
outstanding undergraduate teaching assistant in the Department of Electrical &
Computer Engineering._

  * Kerry Marguerite Castor
  * Grant Ethan Mak

* * *

### Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

#### Pi Tau Sigma Scholarship Award

_Established in memory of T.C. Heyward, Sr., and presented annually by Pi Tau
Sigma to an outstanding senior in Mechanical Engineering at Duke. Selection by
a committee of the engineering faculty is based on academic excellence,
engineering ability, and leadership._

  * Kaijie Chen
  * Benjamin Zachary Edelstein
  * Katherine Carey Tighe

#### Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science Faculty Award

_Presented annually in recognition of academic excellence to the graduating
Mechanical Engineering seniors who have attained the highest level of
scholastic achievement, as determined by the faculty._

  * Zachary Bernstein
  * Ian Keith Eldridge-Allegra
  * Kathleen VanderKam

#### Raymond C. Gaugler Award in Materials Science and Engineering

  * Jiwoo Song

### Graduated with Departmental Distinction

### Biomedical Engineering

  * Beepul Bharti
  * Kendyl Claire Bree
  * Jason Jeh-Sen Chou
  * Jackson Mitchell Dozier
  * Bradley Robert Foster*
  * Jay Gupta
  * Anthony-Fayez Haddad
  * Adrienne Alice Hawkes*
  * Aimee Joanmarie McVey
  * Aditi Madan Pilani
  * Sabrina Wei Qi*
  * Matthew James Salvino
  * Maya Uday Sheth*
  * Maria terWeele
  * Eric Robert Wahlstedt*
  * Benjamin Robert Wesorick
  * Alexander William Wilson*
  * Andrew Ho-Fai Yeung*
  * Stephanie Renée Zelenetz
  * Chris Jiayang Zhou

_* The Howard G. Clark Award_

* * *

### Civil and Environmental Engineering

  * Camden McLaughlin Ford
  * Winston Frederik Lindqwister
  * Tiffany Michelle Wei

* * *

### Electrical and Computer Engineering

  * Samantha Rebecca Archer
  * Siyuan Chen
  * Katelyn Hefter
  * Jeremy Star Morgan
  * August Tianyin Ning
  * Virginia Grace Pan

* * *

### Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

  * Rohan Agarwal
  * Mihai Cimpuieru
  * Thandolwethu Zwelakhe Dlamini
  * Spencer Heath Perkins
  * Alejandro R. Sevilla
  * Jiwoo Song
  * Kathleen VanderKam

### Undergraduate Fellowships and Honors

### Pratt Research Fellows

  * Zachary Bernstein
  * Beepul Bharti
  * Kendyl Claire Bree
  * Jason Jeh-Sen Chou
  * Mihai Cimpuieru
  * Thandolwethu Zwelakhe Dlamini
  * Bradley Robert Foster
  * Zongyu Li
  * Soomin Myoung
  * Aditi Madan Pilani
  * Jose Carlos Rivera
  * Matthew James Salvino
  * Jiwoo Song
  * Maria ter Weele
  * Kathleen VanderKam
  * Ajay Kaushik Varadhan
  * Eric Robert Wahlstedt
  * John Chalres Wahlstedt
  * Tiffany Michelle Wei
  * Andrew Ho-Fai Yeung
  * Stephanie Renée Zelenetz

* * *

### Katsouleas NAE Grand Challenge Scholars

  * Neel Bakshi
  * Jason Jeh-Sen Chou
  * Emilia Anna Grzesiak
  * Jay Gupta
  * Katelyn Hefter
  * Rachael Ellen Lau
  * Samuel Barry Osheroff
  * Ryan Richard Piersma
  * Rachel Leigh Sit
  * Gaurav Uppal
  * Kathryn Anne White
  * Tenzin Yangkey
  * Stephanie Renee Zelenetz
  * Chris Jiayang Zhou

* * *

### BME Design Fellows

  * Mariana Alvarez Machado
  * Kerry Marguerite Castor
  * Lauren Collier
  * Jackson Mitchell Dozier
  * Emilia Anna Grzesiak
  * Jay Gupta
  * Anthony-Fayez Haddad
  * Adrienne Alice Hawkes
  * Cassandra Jade Ingram
  * Aliza Marry Kajani
  * Cooper Larkin Lair
  * Venezia Rose Leone
  * Grant Ethan Mak
  * Aimee Joanmarie McVey
  * Sarah Elizabeth Putney
  * Sabrina Qi
  * Ben Wesorick
  * Zohair Zia

* * *

### Tau Beta Pi

_Tau Beta Pi is the oldest engineering honor society and the second oldest
collegiate honor society in the United States. It honors engineering students
in American universities who have shown a history of academic achievement as
well as a commitment to personal and professional integrity._

  * Samantha Rebecca Archer
  * Andrew Scott Arnold
  * Zachary Bernstein
  * Beepul Bharti
  * Sarah Catherine Bland
  * Emily Chang
  * Iris Yuting Chang
  * Jason Jeh-Sen Chou
  * Tanios Wadih Dagher
  * Alice Dai
  * Neil Dhar
  * Claire Jie Dong
  * Ian Keith Eldridge-Allegra
  * Joshua Steven Engel
  * Yodit Getnet Gebretsadik
  * Khian Wei Goh
  * Aryaman Gupta
  * Jay Gupta
  * Katelyn Hefter
  * Aliza Marry Kajani
  * Cooper Larkin Lair
  * Angus Li
  * Lucas Tiger Liu
  * Aimee Joanmarie McVey
  * Feroze Kamla Mohideen
  * Soomin Myoung
  * Trishul Patel Nagenalli
  * August Tianyin Ning
  * Samuel Barry Osheroff
  * Virginia Grace Pan
  * Ryan Richard Piersma
  * Caroline Rose Potts
  * Sarah Elizabeth Putney
  * Wei (Vivian) Qi
  * Shicheng Rao
  * Matthew James Salvino
  * Julia May Saveliff
  * Jiwoo Song
  * Madelyn Louise Stoddard
  * Maria ter Weele
  * William Ming Tian
  * Katherine Carey Tighe
  * Carl Christpoh Dietrich Tribull
  * Kathleen VanderKam
  * Kathryn Anne White
  * Madeline Rose Wilkinson
  * Chris Jiayang Zhou

  * Sabrina Wei Qi
  * Benjamin Robert Wesorick
  * Zohair Nadeem Zia

### Commissioned Officers in the Armed Forces

  * 2nd Lt. Ethan Eichelman, United States Army
  * Ensign Alyssa Rucker, United States Navy

Join the celebration

* * *

## Related Content

###  
Senior Reflections on the _This Engineering Life_ Podcast

###  
Wrapping Up 18 Months of Research

###  
Congratulations from the Graduate School

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

