

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# 'I Can Do This'—Duke’s First-Year Design Course Boosts Student Self-Efficacy

September 4, 2019

Two projects to emerge from Duke Engineering's First-Year Design course are
patent-pending. Student surveys suggest the course also fosters teamwork,
leadership and communication skills.

In fall 2018, Catherine Alexander was working in a team trying to solve a
problem faced by curators at Duke University’s David M. Rubenstein Rare Book &
Manuscript Library—how to design an inexpensive but effective exhibit cradle
to hold a valuable old book safely.

Alexander, like her teammates, wasn’t an engineer or product designer. She was
a Duke student in her first semester at the Pratt School of Engineering. Their
challenge was a class assignment in Duke’s innovative EGR 101 lab, also known
as the First Year Design (FYD) Program.

> “The students asked many questions, and they came up with a design that met
> our needs, looks beautiful, and costs a tenth of our handmade book cradles.”
>
> **Margaret Brown**  
>  E. Rhodes and Leona B. Carpenter Foundation Exhibits Coordinator  
> David E. Rubenstein Rare Book & Manuscript Library

With a focus on tackling real-world problems, the course introduces first-year
students to engineering and design thinking.

It also has a positive effect on student attitudes and beliefs necessary for
successful learning, said Ann Saterbak, director of Duke Engineering’s FYD
program and an expert on innovation in engineering education.

In a survey, students who took First-Year Design, showed that by semester’s
end, their attitudes about their teamwork, communication and leadership
skills, and their own “can-do” belief in their abilities, increased
significantly.

For Alexander’s team, the design challenge was displaying rare books. They are
rarely the same size or weight, so expensive custom cradles are made for
exhibits. Could a better solution be found?

The team worked with their client, Margaret Brown, the E. Rhodes and Leona B.
Carpenter Foundation Exhibits Coordinator at the Rubenstein Library. After
learning much from Brown, getting advice from a faculty expert in product
design, and building prototypes in the tool-filled workshop that was their
classroom, the team’s solution met or exceeded the requirements of the brief.

“The students asked many questions,” Brown said. “And they came up with a
design that met our needs, looks beautiful, and costs a tenth of our handmade
book cradles.”

Deceptively simple, the laser-cut acrylic stand is supremely adjustable—it can
be made to rotate, twist and shift in three different ways. The stands were
put into use in spring 2019, displaying artifacts of various sizes and shapes
in a Rubenstein Library exhibit on campus. When the exhibition travels later
this year to New York City, the book cradles will go along.

Their book cradle is now patent pending. That is the second potential patent
to launch from First-Year Design: Another first-year student team has applied
to protect their design for an adjustable wall hook for professional art
museums.

Not every FYD project leads to a patent, nor is it expected to. Instead, the
goal is to prepare creative engineers who are inspired and equipped to solve
complex problems.

With the introduction of the EGR 101 lab and other new courses, Duke has
transformed its undergraduate curriculum to emphasize design, data and
decision sciences, computational thinking, mentored research opportunities and
increasing each student’s entrepreneurial confidence.

“EGR 101 was a valuable class for me because it gave me an idea of all the
different possibilities as an engineer,” said Alexander, who is from Richmond,
Va., and hopes to major in mechanical engineering. “It showed me how
fulfilling it could be to achieve something working as part of a team. It’s
really fueled my love for engineering.”

Saterbak’s previous research has shown that students who engage with authentic
engineering problems in their first year exhibit greater self-efficacy—that
is, an individual’s belief in their own ability to achieve goals.

She said unpublished survey results from students who took Duke's First-Year
Design Course showed statistically significant increases in self-efficacy
related to creativity, engineering skills (tinkering) and engineering design,
as well as teamwork, communication and leadership skills.

Measures of grit/perseverance, engineering academic engagement and belief in
the value of creativity as a personal trait were unchanged, Saterbak said.

“There is more research to do, and we are staying in contact with these
students and continuing to survey them,” Saterbak said. “We want to know if
the statistically significant increase in attitudes and beliefs has a lasting
effect.”

In the case of the book-cradle team, technical mentor Gregg Twiss, an adjunct
associate professor in mechanical engineering and materials science, said he
saw that growth firsthand during the 2018 semester.

“The cradle team embraced prototyping and iterative improvement,” he said.
“Every week their models got a little better. Ideas that didn’t quite work
before were gone, new ideas arrived and other ‘rough edges’ were smoothed out.
It was great to see their increasing confidence throughout the semester.”

More about Duke First-Year Design

## From First-Year Projects to Patent Applications

Duke Engineering's signature first-year experience includes a hands-on design
course where students take on authentic engineering problems from real-world
clients. Here are details of two project teams that have made moves to patent
their ideas.

### Adjustable Wall Hook

**Challenge:** Each time a museum painting needs adjusting, the art must be
removed from the wall, increasing the risk of damage.

**Goal:** Develop an adjustable hanger that can mount art weighing 30-100
pounds, last 20 or more years, and will work with existing D- and J-style
hooks.

**Client:** Nasher Museum of Art, Duke University

**Solution:** An adjustable three-part bolt design that can bear 400 pounds
and costs less than $10 per unit.

**Design Team Members:**

  * Sean Park
  * Will Eisner
  * Randall Johnson
  * Paul Kim
  * John Gross

**Faculty Technical Mentors:**

  * Eric Richardson
  * Ken Gall

**Status:**

  * Patent pending
  * Prototypes sent to museums across the United States

**Links**

  * Article: First Year, First Patent Pending
  * Project web page: Duke First-Year Design

* * *

### Book Cradle

**Challenge:** Fragile, rare books must be carefully displayed. Current book
cradles are not adjustable, often must be custom-made and are challenging to
store.

**Goal:** Create a single cradle that supports and protects different sizes
and weights of rare books, is easy to store and costs less than $50.

**Client:** David M. Rubenstein Rare Book & Manuscript Library, Duke
University

**Solution:** A cradle with three points of rotation, made of laser-cut
acrylic, that can be created in 30 minutes and stores flat.

**Team Members:**

  * Catherine Alexander
  * Ryan Feinberg
  * Philip Liu
  * Bennett Sampson
  * Michelle Zhang

**Technical Mentors:**

  * Greg Twiss
  * Ann Saterbak

**Status:**

  * Patent pending
  * Used in a Duke rare-book exhibit, which moves this winter to New York's
    book-loving Grolier Club

**Links:**

  * Video: How a Pratt Book Cradle Is Made
  * Exhibit website: Five Hundred Years of Women’s Work

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

