

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke ECE Welcomes First Entrepreneur-in-Residence

March 11, 2019

Vamsee Pamula PhD’01 has a new company — and a new gig as Duke ECE’s first
Entrepreneur-in-Residence

There’s no shortage of resources for Duke’s entrepreneurial engineers. Within
the Pratt School of Engineering, the dedicated Entrepreneurship @ Duke
Engineering program offers workshops and seminars designed to instill
entrepreneurial confidence. There’s a brand new “Founders Track” in the Master
of Engineering Management program. And Duke’s Innovation & Entrepreneurship
Initiative further connects engineers to assets like expert advice on pitching
to investors, seeking patents, and protecting intellectual property.

Now, the ECE community has added its first Entrepreneur-in-Residence, Vamsee
Pamula ECE PhD ‘01, whose personal goal is to help students and faculty
recognize ideas that can be translated to products for societal impact, and to
steer clear of some of the roadblocks that slowed down his first startup.

> The ECE community has added its first Entrepreneur-in-Residence, Vamsee
> Pamula ECE PhD ‘01, whose personal goal is to help students and faculty
> recognize ideas that can be translated to products for societal impact.

“The first thing I would tell researchers interested in starting their own
company is, ‘Do some market research. See what need exists in the marketplace,
then quickly decide on a beachhead opportunity—an initial foothold that opens
the way for further development—where your technology uniquely fits.’” This
was a lesson that he learned the hard way, admitted Pamula. He co-founded his
first company, Advanced Liquid Logic, as a postdoctoral researcher in ECE
Professor Richard Fair’s microfluidics lab. But he started with the
solution–digital microfluidics technology—and a general idea of the problem
space then went searching for a specific need; had he identified a beachhead
opportunity sooner, he said, and adapted the technology to solve it,
everything from ideation to exit might have gone more smoothly and quickly.

Nevertheless, working alongside Fair, fellow postdoc Michael Pollack PhD ’01,
and Richard West BSE ’79, Pamula managed to grow the fledgling lab-on-a-chip
company to a 90-employee enterprise over the next nine years, before selling
it to genomics giant Illumina in 2013 for nearly $100 million. Pamula and West
launched a second company, Baebies, the very same day. This time, they applied
what they learned on the first go-round, and started by identifying a problem:
the fact that newborn babies are not generally screened for rare diseases like
Pompe disease, an enzyme deficiency that affects one in 40,000 newborns and
usually results in mortality before the child’s first birthday. Baebies
capitalizes upon digital microfluidics and other technologies to deliver rapid
testing for newborns—testing for several rare diseases using a single drop of
blood, and allowing doctors to quickly begin interventions. In the case of
Pompe disease, that means enzyme replacement therapy to slow the disease’s
progression.

The extra “e” in Baebies, said Pamula, is for “everyone,” signifying that
every baby deserves a healthy start. The spelling is a constant reminder of
their mission, and who they chose to serve.

“Duke ECE has a well-deserved reputation for entrepreneurial excellence,” said
Department Chair Krishnendu Chakrabarty. “There is high demand for the
products and solutions developed by electrical and computer engineers, and
Duke’s entrepreneurial ecosystem allows businesses that started here to grow
and thrive. It’s wonderful that the ECE community will have the additional
benefit of Vamsee Pamula’s significant real-world experience and success and
his ethos of service.”

> “There is high demand for the products and solutions developed by electrical
> and computer engineers, and Duke’s entrepreneurial ecosystem allows
> businesses that started here to grow and thrive."
>
> KrishnendU Chakrabarty, ECE Department Chair

Pamula will spend about a day every month with ECE students and faculty who
are interested in starting their own businesses. He can offer advice in areas
including idea development, securing intellectual property, and
commercialization of research, and said he is particularly looking forward to
hearing a wide range of impactful ideas from ECE students.

Those interested in meeting with Pamula should contact Dina Khalilova for an
appointment.

More News from ECE

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

