

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# From Duke’s Labs to Patients in Peru: Students Work to Deploy New Cervical
Cancer Screening Tool

March 30, 2017 | By Michaela Kane

Students in the Bass Connections: Pocket Colposcope team traveled to Peru to
research how to deploy a new medical device into an existing healthcare system

By the time spring break rolls around, students are typically antsy to leave
campus for a different destination, whether that means relaxing at home or
adventuring in a far-away country. Although an exotic location was certainly
in the books for some students in Duke’s Bass Connections—Pocket Colposcope:
Increased distribution and adoption program, their activities weren’t part of
the usual spring break fare. Instead, the team traveled to Lima, Peru to
continue their ongoing study of how an innovative cancer screening tool could
best be deployed within the country’s healthcare system.

The Pocket Colposcope was developed by Duke’s Center for Global Women’s Health
Technologies as a tool to help doctors screen for cervical cancer in low- and
middle-income countries, where, according to the World Health Organization,
more than 85 percent of the annual deaths from cervical cancer occur. To
address the barriers associated with screening, the Pocket colposcope was
designed to be significantly less expensive and more portable than a standard
colposcope, and the device has the potential to increase cervical cancer
awareness and screening, saving lives in the process. But first, it must be
successfully adopted in the local environment.

To pave the way toward this goal, the students conducted in-depth interviews
with clinicians, public health officials, industry partners and researchers
about their work and their thoughts on the Pocket Colposcope—fitting weeks of
work into five business days.

“We met with anyone you can think of who would have been involved in the
lifecycle of the device, and these interviews all help us figure out the best
way to optimize and deploy the system for use around the world,” says Marlee
Krieger, a research program manager in Nimmi Ramanujam’s lab in BME and one of
the team leaders of the Bass Connections project. “It’s been great to see
these students be enthusiastic about telling people about our device and our
work to prevent cervical cancer mortality.”

The spring break trip to Peru is part of a yearlong Bass Connections team led
by Nimmi Ramanujam of BME and Rae Jean Proeschold-Bell of the Duke Global
Health Institute, and taught by Krieger and Danny Hamrick, a research analyst
with the Duke University Center on Globalization, Governance and
Competitiveness. With a diverse team of undergraduate and graduate students
from biomedical engineering, global health, psychology, business and beyond,
the program uses as its framework a development approach known as global value
chain analysis—a holistic, systematic approach to mapping out the planned use
of a new tool to identify potential bottlenecks and challenges to deployment.

“This program allows for different viewpoints to come together to address a
problem, and everything is centered around a real-life issue—in this case,
cervical cancer,” says Hamrick. “We really get to see how people from various
disciplines approach different strategies to get this tool into the field.”

On the first working day of the trip, the students visited the Ministerio de
Salud del Peru (Peruvian Ministry of Health), where they discussed how the
public health system had focused its efforts on combatting cancer to date.
From there, the students split up into two teams to cover more ground. Some,
like Avni Mehta, a sophomore in BME, toured area hospitals and clinics to
determine how the Pocket Colposcope could serve both affluent and resource-
limited hospitals. This leg of the tour also involved a stop at mobile health
clinics, which currently offer Pap smears to women outside of Lima and could
potentially expand to colposcopies with the new portable tool.

“To me, it was great to see that a lot of people seemed to know about the
importance of these cancer screening services, and the mobile vans were
popular where people were even calling their friends to come over and get
screened,” says Mehta. “Visiting these places really showed us how our
research could have a palpable impact on people’s lives.”

Although the students were interested in studying the immediate impact the
tool could have in hospitals and clinics in the area, they also visited the
League Against Cancer (La Liga Contra el Cancer) and the biomedical
engineering department at the Pontifical Catholic University of Peru. At each
institution, students were given a broader overview about how Peru’s public
health system was promoting cancer screening, and they saw how the
university’s BME department conducted its own cancer research.

A highlight for several students was meeting with caregivers who were
developing new ways to bring medical services to people around the city using
a smartphone app. This tool for ‘mobile medicine’ gave the students a new
avenue to pursue with the Pocket Colposcope, says Manish Nair, a BME senior in
the Bass Connections project.

“I think that was exciting for all of us because we could see the way our tool
could fit into their current system in terms of portability and ease of use,”
says Nair. “It was inspiring to hear and see that people are using technology
in such new and innovative ways in Lima.”

The trip’s primary purpose was to allow students to gather research for the
team’s global value chain analysis, but they also used the opportunity to
familiarize themselves with a world that was different from their lives at
Duke. During their stay in Lima, students visited the ruins of Machu Picchu,
sampled the local cuisine, and learned how to navigate the sprawling city. To
reflect on these experiences—and their research—the students updated blogs
detailing their time abroad.

Now back at Duke, the Bass Connections team is analyzing their findings to
determine what challenges they still face, what the bottlenecks are in the
health care market in Lima, and steps they need to take going forward. They
will present these findings during a Bass Connections showcase on April 20.
And, the work will continue with the 2017-2018 Bass Connections team, where
students will work to train health care providers how to use the Pocket
Colposcope.

But for now, the team is pleased with a successful trip.

“Nothing beats the experience of actually being out in the field with your
teammates, and after the trip we are much closer and understand each other at
a different level,” says Nair. “Now we truly understand how to work together
to solve any problems that pop up.”

_Join Bass Connections for its annualshowcase and reception on Thursday, April
20 from 4-6 pm in Scharf Hall. Students from five project teams will give
presentations summarizing their work, and leaders will have an opportunity to
recognize their outstanding achievements. No RSVP is required. For questions,
please contact Sarah Dwyer at __sarah.dwyer@duke.edu_ _._

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

