

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Startup Innovates Blood-Testing Technology—and Tech Transfer Process

October 8, 2014 | By Ken Kingery

A new technology to exponentially improve blood-screening for transfusions has
leapfrogged its way from Duke University lab to corporate development.

In an unusually streamlined tech-transfer deal, a two-year-old startup company
founded by Duke bioengineers was acquired last week by industry giant Immucor,
paving the way for the innovation to benefit patients much sooner than usual.

Sentilus, Inc. was founded in 2012 by Ashutosh Chilkoti, professor and chair
of biomedical engineering at Duke, and his PhD student Angus Hucknall, based
on Chilkoti’s discovery of a way to create a “nonstick” coating that acts as a
sort of Teflon for molecules and cells found in blood. Through their startup,
the two developed the technology into a microarray that can screen for many
blood proteins at once.

The acquisition by Immucor, a global leader in transfusion and transplantation
diagnostics, will help bring the technology to market, with the aim of
ensuring that patients in need of blood, organs or stem cells get the right
match in a way that is safe, accessible and affordable.

“The technology is very simple and allows us to use an inkjet printer to print
antibodies on to this surface,” said Chilkoti. “These antibodies act like
Velcro for the blood molecules we are looking for. Nothing else will stick to
the plate’s surface. This gives you very good sensitivity—much better than
existing technologies.”

With tens of thousands of different proteins found in human tissue, it can be
tricky finding just one. Previous platforms have been plagued by unwanted
proteins and molecules sticking to the assays, making it difficult to detect
low levels of the target proteins amongst the clutter.

Sentilus’s technology creates a surface that no molecule will accidentally
cling to, allowing researchers to “see” molecules at levels previously too
small to observe by similar methods. And the ability to simply inkjet print
the “Velcro” onto the surface makes it easy to mass-produce clinical assays.

The development of the technology was supported for two years by the Duke-
Coulter Translational Partnership Grant Program and more recently by a Pilot
Program award from the Duke Translational Medicine Institute and by the NIH.
The Coulter Award program accelerates the development of promising
bioengineering research that addresses important unmet clinical needs.

“We really have to thank the Coulter Program,” said Chilkoti. “That program
was meant for development work like this.” Outside of the Duke programs and a
NIH grant to Chilkoti, Sentilus was not supported by any other entity—a rarity
in the biotech field. Chilkoti and Hucknall did not raise any venture capital
and kept the company virtual. Instead of raising capital and investing in
physical infrastructure, the duo spent years developing potential applications
for their technology.

With the help of intellectual property firm Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati
and through a network of Chilkoti’s contacts, Chilkoti and Hucknall then
pitched their idea to potential buyers. While the approach is innovative, it
may be a model for other universities and start-up companies, according to
their lawyers.

“I suspect this deal may be the first of its kind and I think it might
indicate a trend in the future,” said Vern Norviel, the principal lawyer
coordinating the technology transfer deal. “Tosh and Angus bundled it up quite
nicely without requiring any brick and mortar space or venture capital. It’s a
remarkable way to get the technology out of the university and straight to
patients.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

