

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Materials Initiative Expands to Include Sustainable Materials Research

August 9, 2020 | Elizabeth Witherspoon

DMI adds Civil & Environmental Engineering and Environmental Toxicology
faculty who research environmental impacts of materials

It’s one thing to discover and design materials to push the boundaries of
technology, medicine and consumer products. It’s quite another to design these
new materials so that we minimize their effects on the environment. Duke
University leads in both endeavors internationally. Now it is strengthening
the connection between those two research enterprises for even more meaningful
collaboration.

The Duke Materials Initiative has expanded its interdisciplinary community of
materials researchers and educators by adding Sustainable Materials to its
signature research areas. In doing so, DMI has welcomed eight additional
faculty members from the Pratt School of Engineering’s Department of Civil &
Environmental Engineering and the Nicholas School of the Environment’s
Department of Environmental Toxicology. Two other researchers already
affiliated with DMI bring the total number of faculty in this signature area
to 10, plus the graduate students and postdoctoral fellows and associates
working in their nine research centers and labs.

“A growing element of public health engineering is to ensure that the
materials we come in contact with, and the products that they enable, are
conceived with safety in mind,” said Mark Wiesner, James B. Duke Distinguished
Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, an internationally
recognized researcher and director of the Center for Environmental
Implications of NanoTechnology (CEINT). Wiesner, an existing DMI faculty
member, facilitated connecting his sustainable research colleagues to DMI.

> “The Sustainable Materials effort within DMI provides a conduit for those
> researchers creating new materials to interact with those of us working to
> find ways to minimize negative impacts on human health and the environment
> over the life cycle of production use and disposal."
>
> —Mark Wiesner

“The Sustainable Materials effort within DMI provides a conduit for those
researchers creating new materials to interact with those of us working to
find ways to minimize negative impacts on human health and the environment
over the life cycle of production use and disposal,” added Wiesner.
“Adjustments early in the trajectory of new technologies, such as
photovoltaics, energy storage devices, and the materials that enable these
technologies, provide the greatest potential for realizing the objective of
extracting the maximum environmental benefit with the lowest environmental
impact.”

Stefan Zauscher, director of DMI and professor of mechanical engineering and
materials science, described the over-arching benefits of the decision to
expand and what it signals to peer institutions and prospective students.

“Having access to and collaborating with leading experts in sustainable
materials adds a critically important and new dimension to materials science
research at Duke as we work to develop high-performance materials that
minimize negative impacts on human health and the environment," said Zauscher.
"The addition of Sustainable Materials as a signature area is a hallmark and
distinctive element for Duke's Materials Initiative, in comparison to similar
initiatives at peer institutions across the country,” said Zauscher.

The goal of DMI is to enable the necessary bold, innovative and transformative
materials science and engineering advances that are only possible when
crossing the boundaries between traditional disciplines. It does this as an
initiative by providing strategic leadership and leveraging strengths of Duke
that reside in nine different academic departments across Trinity College of
Arts & Sciences, the Pratt School of Engineering and the Nicholas School of
the Environment. Jointly supported by Trinity, Pratt and the Duke Provost’s
Office, DMI’s vision is to foster innovation and sustained excellence in
materials science and engineering research and education by creating a culture
that transcends departmental and school boundaries.

“The addition of Sustainable Materials as a signature research area in DMI's
materials science portfolio is exciting and emblematic for the growth of the
materials research community at Duke,” added Zauscher. “By encompassing
researchers from CEE and the Nicholas School of the Environment, DMI now
extends beyond the canonical areas of materials science and engineering, which
will afford new opportunities for cross-disciplinary collaborations.”

## Related News

February 10, 2020

### What's in North Carolina's Drinking Water?

January 31, 2020

### Engineering Microbial Communities

December 12, 2019

### Deforestation, Erosion Exacerbate Mercury Spikes Near Peruvian Gold Mining

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

