

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Engineering Alumni Profile: Kevin Edwards

July 1, 2013

An engineer's career in investment banking

**Graduation Year:** 2001

**Degree at Duke:**

  * Bachelor of Science

**Major/Program:**

  * Mechanical Engineering

> There are so many alumni of Duke who are successful in financial services. I
> don’t think that’s a coincidence. You get a broad-based education at Duke,
> and being at a school that complete and that well-rounded transfers very
> well. The top firms like Duke and like the type of student who’s coming out
> of Duke.

When Kevin Edwards was 13, he was a working-class kid in Brooklyn, New York.
Now, he’s part of a team that runs the €6 billion to €7 billion European bond
and credit default swap desk at Morgan Stanley in London, where he might
invest €100 million in a single trade on a Tuesday afternoon.

Scholarships to a private preparatory school and to Duke University’s Pratt
School of Engineering launched his elite career in finance, Edwards says.

“When I was 13, I applied for this program called the Albert G. Almer program
which took 50 or so African-American and Latino students and placed us in
various private day schools in the New York area or boarding schools all along
the East Coast,” he explains. He received a scholarship to the George School
in Pennsylvania, where his success positioned him to attend an elite
university. After also being accepted to Brown, Cornell, and Yale, Edwards
selected Duke.

“When I got the acceptance letter from Duke, they offered me the Reggie Howard
scholarship, named after the first black student government president of Duke,
who never served because he died in a car accident,” Edwards recounts. “So I
flew down there to visit, and once you fly down there, it’s hard not to end up
there.”

Edwards applied to the engineering school because he knew how impressive that
preparation is to Fortune 500 corporations, he says.

“There aren’t a lot of majors where students are in the labs,” he says. “For
the major companies in the U.S. who recruit on campuses, engineering is one of
the first majors they’re looking for” – even for non-engineering jobs, because
a top-tier engineering program gives a student analytical and critical
thinking skills that translate broadly in business. Also, succeeding despite
the rigors of Duke’s engineering program proves discipline, drive, stamina,
and character.

“It was around junior year when I decided that while I enjoyed the challenge
of getting a degree in engineering, I didn’t see my future in professional
engineering,” Edwards remembers. “I liked working with people; I liked the
fact-based nature of working in a trading environment. I knew the skill set we
were learning at Duke would transfer over pretty easily into financial
services.”

Indeed, Edwards had discovered that Wall Street investment banks routinely
identify and recruit promising Duke engineering students. Through a referral
from a classmate, Edwards landed perhaps the ultimate summer internship: as a
summer analyst at investment banking titan Goldman Sachs after his junior
year. That led to the offer of a full-time job at Goldman after his graduation
in 2001.

As he entered that high-pressure field, Edwards felt well prepared.

“A lot of the classes I took were more theoretical in nature about how you
solve problems and apply mathematical skills to solving problems,” he says.
“That transferred over very well into financial services. Every trade you look
at entering or exiting is a problem-solving exercise with a bunch of inputs
and a bunch of outputs. What is going to make the bonds of this company
appreciate or depreciate? What numbers do I need to see? What inputs do I need
to get to that number?”

There is one big difference, though, he says: “The math is very easy compared
to the math we were doing at Duke for engineering.”

During his career, Edwards has met other engineering majors who made the
transition into finance – a disproportionate number of them also from Duke.

“The thing about Duke versus a school like MIT is the broad-based education
you get,” says Edwards, who minored in African-American studies and recalls
seminal experiences like seeing poet Maya Angelou speak on campus. “Being at a
school that complete and that well-rounded transfers very well. That is why
there are so many alumni of Duke who are successful in financial services. I
don’t think that’s a coincidence. The top firms like Duke and like the type of
student who’s coming out of Duke. That’s translated to a lot of Duke alums at
firms like Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs.”

After several years with Goldman, Edwards moved to Morgan Stanley,
transferring to its London office in 2008. His days are long and fast-paced.

“By an accident of geography, London’s the epicenter of the financial services
industry,” he explains. “I get in at 6:30 in the morning, when it’s late
afternoon in Singapore, Hong Kong, Tokyo. In the second part of my day, the
U.S. business day begins. If you’re going to work in financial services,
London is the place to be.”

Edwards arrived in London just in time for the most extraordinary market
conditions in decades -- just before the collapse of Lehman Brothers and the
financial crisis that followed. This past year, he’s been trading European
debt while the sovereign debt crisis roiled markets there.

“You’re talking about the economic future of countries like Greece, Portugal,
Ireland and Italy,” he observes. “Being here and getting to participate in the
process of how to get through this is very interesting. How this gets resolved
is crucial to the future of everyone in the world.”

_Originally published Summer 2013. Written by Bryan Gilmer._

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

