

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Celebrates Innovation and Entrepreneurship at First Annual Invented at
Duke Celebration

October 20, 2017

“Commercialization turns discovery into invention, enabling Duke researchers
to fulfill our institution’s mission of bringing knowledge to bear in service
to society.” –President Price

_This story was originally published by theDuke Office of Licensing and
Ventures _

A puncture-proof vascular graft, silicone microspheres, improved eye disease
imaging, a pocket-sized colposcope, improved hernia solutions, a platform for
predictive surgical complication risks, and an infant IV vest—Duke’s cutting-
edge innovations were out in force at Monday’s Invented at Duke Celebration.

The event honored Duke faculty, staff, and students whose research has the
potential to improve and save lives. Robin Rasor, the Executive Director of
the Office of Licensing and Ventures (OLV), said, “The Invented at Duke
celebration is an opportunity for us to showcase how the cycle of discovery to
commercialization helps to translate technology into products and services
that have a real impact on society.”

A focus for this first annual event was on the significant progress Duke is
making to become a leader in transferring its knowledge and innovations to the
worldwide community. With over 300 invention disclosures, 85 patents and 11
new startups for this past fiscal year, OLV understands that our faculty,
staff and student inventors are a vital component to all areas of the
innovation ecosystem.

“This is such an exciting time to be at Duke. From the interdisciplinary work
of our Institutions to student collaborations and clinical research, we are
thinking creatively about the world’s most intractable problems and actively
finding solutions to solve them,” President Price said speaking in front of a
crowd of over 300 alumni, faculty, staff, students, and members of the local
community.

The event, held at the Washington Duke Inn, created an opportunity for
researchers to present their innovations to members of the venture capital and
business communities as well as to stimulate interdisciplinary collaboration.

OLV is making substantial progress in helping to facilitate and lead
entrepreneurship and technology commercialization at Duke. Ms. Rasor said,
“There is so much energy and excitement around Duke innovation right now. The
success of last night’s event was evidence as to how much interest there is
from our local community to engage with our researchers, increase their
involvement, and develop partnerships that work for everyone.”

Check out the Featured Innovators from our event. Their innovations represent
an inspiring reflection of the interdisciplinary community afforded to us here
at Duke.

### Featured Innovators from the Pratt School of Engineering:

POCkeT Colposcope is a highly portable, cervical cancer screening solution to
be used at the community-level setting. The technology was developed by Dr.
Nimmi Ramanujam and her team at Duke University’s Global Women’s Health
Technologies Center and has been evaluated clinically in Tanzania, Peru,
Kenya, Zambia, and the U.S. Cervical cancer affects the lives of 500,000 women
worldwide each year and results in more than 270,000 deaths. The POCkeT
Colposcope brings a small, easily cleaned, and highly usable device to many
low to middle-income countries.

_“Duke OLV has been an active and engaged partner in helping our team pursue
commercialization pathways for the POCkeT Colposcope. Not only does this
office provide services for technology transfer but also supports grant
proposals and student activities to move this technology forward.”_ –Nimmi
Ramanujam, PhD, Professor of Biomedical Engineering, Pratt School of
Engineering.

Encapsio was born out of a Duke lab by PhD Wyatt Shields. The company is
developing a system of manufacturing premium silicone microspheres for the
encapsulation, protection, and controlled delivery of active ingredients in
product formulations. Fuqua MBA students Nick Kirby and Wes Day sought out
Shields’ technology for a start-up idea when they saw the potential for a
product that is cost effective, scalable, and easily brought to market. With
the ability to encapsulate and deliver a variety of compounds, these spheres
offer a broad range of applications—such as inks, paints, pesticides, drugs,
etc. Currently, the focus is on topical applications for skin care starting
with a retinol-encapsulated microsphere that will be supplied to cosmetic
brands and cosmetic ingredient distributors.

_“OLV has supported our startup from the very beginning. It was OLV’s Rob
Hallford who initially connected Wes and me to Wyatt long before we became a
company. Also, OLV has assisted with writing grants, fundraising, IP strategy,
and facilitating introductions to key contacts within their vast network.”_
–Nick Kirby, Encapsio CFO

Lumedica was founded by an experienced team of engineers including Chief
Scientist Dr. Adam Wax from the Pratt School of Engineering. Dr. Wax’s team
has developed a new low-cost optical coherence tomography (OCT) scanner that
could dramatically extend the impact of the imaging technology for eye health
by making eye imaging more affordable, accessible and easier to use.
Affordable access would enable more health care providers to conduct OCT
imaging, giving patients greater, earlier access to the one test that can save
their vision and improve their quality of life.

_“I’ve worked with OLV on many technologies over the years. They’ve helped me
develop the patent protection we needed to get our companies off the ground.”_
– Adam Wax, PhD, Professor of Biomedical Engineering, Pratt School of
Engineering.

* * *

Check out the Duke Office of Licensing and Ventures site to read the full
story

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

