

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Team Reaches Milestone with Portable Cervical Cancer Screening Device

March 1, 2017

"Pocket Colposcope" has been developed to increase access to cervical cancer
screening in primary care settings

Story originally posted by the Duke Global Health Institute

January was Cervical Health Awareness Month, and this year, that designation
held special significance for Nimmi Ramanujam, professor of biomedical
engineering and global health and director of the Center for Global Women’s
Health Technologies.

Since 2012, she and her research team have been developing and testing a
portable colposcope, called the “Pocket Colposcope,” to increase access to
cervical cancer screening in primary care settings. Last month, 20 of these
devices were produced for distribution to international partners.

## SCREENING IS KEY TO EARLY DETECTION AND EFFECTIVE TREATMENT

According to the World Health Organization (WHO), more than 85 percent of the
more than 270,000 annual deaths from cervical cancer occur in low and middle
income countries. The disease is easily treatable if identified early, but
because access to effective screening is limited in low-resource settings,
early detection is often not possible.

And even if access to screening is available, for example via human papilloma
virus (HPV) testing, a confirmatory test is needed before a woman can receive
treatment. In the United States, this test is performed through colposcopy.
However, a clinical colposcope is typically not available in a primary care
setting, and in many low and middle income countries, often the alternative is
to visualize the cervix with only the naked eye—a method that often results in
missed diagnoses. The cost of a clinical colposcope—upwards of
$20,000—presents yet another barrier.

The Pocket Colposcope is designed to address these barriers. It brings that
secondary test—traditionally performed using a clinical colposcope by
physicians at referral centers—to the primary care setting. In addition, it’s
easy for a broad range of health care providers with different levels of
training to use.

## ABOUT THE POCKET COLPOSCOPE

After four generations of development, the team has created a beta prototype
of the Pocket Colposcope in collaboration with product design and development
company 3rd Stone Design, Inc.

The Pocket Colposcope is significantly less expensive, smaller and lighter
than a traditional clinical colposcope. Weighing less than two pounds, it fits
inside a pocket (hence the name). The device enables healthcare providers to
zoom and capture images by pressing a button with their thumb. Images taken
with the Pocket Colposcope are transmitted instantly to a smartphone, tablet
or laptop.

Afterwards, the device can be sterilized by immersion in bleach or hydrogen
peroxide.

“What’s unique about this design compared to traditional and redesigned, low-
cost colposcopes on the market is that it reimagines the way a gynecological
exam is performed,” said Ramanujam. Rather than visualizing the cervix from
outside the speculum (the instrument that separates the vaginal walls during
cervical exams), as other colposcopes do, the Pocket Colposcope can be used
inside a speculum or even without a speculum.

Traditional colposcopes have a camera and light source and a binocular viewing
system to examine the cervix. Thus the colposcope is external to the cervix.
The Pocket colposcope does not have a viewing system, but rather has a
consumer grade light source and camera at the tip, that when inserted can
provide a live video or image of the cervix on a laptop or tablet. The ability
to insert the colposcope through a speculum enables a close-up view of the
cervix (three centimeters rather than 30 centimeters away from the cervix),
alleviating the need for high-end optics and high-resolution cameras, which
make traditional colposcopes expensive.

## IMAGE QUALITY RIVALS THAT OF TRADITIONAL COLPOSCOPES

The Pocket Colposcope provides image quality that rivals the best colposcope
on the market. Side-by-side images read by an expert shows that the images
obtained with the Pocket Colposcope result in the same diagnosis as a high-end
clinical colposcope (Leisegang Optik).

The Pocket Colposcope is currently being used in clinical investigations in
hospitals in the United States (112 patients), Peru (149 patients), Kenya (100
patients) and Tanzania (27 patients) and will soon be implemented in studies
in Honduras.

An article describing some of these results is currently in press with the
Journal of Lower Genital Tract Disease. John Schmitt, professor of obstetrics
and gynecology and global health, will be presenting research results at the
International Federation of Cervical Pathology and Colposcopy World Congress
in April. Ramanujam will present the team’s findings at the Congreso
Internacional de Colposcopia y Patologia del Tracto Genital Inferior in Lima,
Peru, in May.

## PARTNERS ARE INTEGRAL TO THE COLPOSCOPE’S SUCCESS

Ramanujam’s team is comprised of Duke faculty, staff, postdoctoral researchers
and students, including several current and former Master of Science in Global
Health students and a few undergraduate global health majors.

But they couldn’t have gotten this far without the help of a network of
collaborators who have been using and providing feedback on earlier versions
of the Pocket Colposcope from Peru to India:

  * **Moshi, Tanzania** – Olola Oneko and Bariki Mchome, Kilimanjaro Christian
    Medical Centre
  * **Nairobi, Kenya** – Rose Kosgei, University of Nairobi, and Anthony
    Wanyoro, Kenyatta University
  * **Lusaka, Zambia** – Groesbeck Parham, University Teaching Hospital
  * **Lima, Peru** – Gino Venegas, La Liga Contra el Cancer
  * **Chennai, India** – J.S. Malliga, Cancer Institute Chennai
  * **New Delhi, India** – Roopa Hariprasad, Institute of Cytology and
    Preventative Oncology and Neerja Bhatla, All India Institute of Medical
    Sciences
  * **Chapel Hill, North Carolina and Mombasa, Kenya** – Jennifer Smith,
    University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
  * **Seattle, Washington and Honduras** – Jose Jeronimo, PATH
  * **Charlottesville, Virginia** – Peyton Taylor, University of Virginia

## WHAT’S NEXT FOR THE POCKET COLPOSCOPE?

### **Building Partnerships**

Ramanujam and her team are currently working through the regulatory process
for the Pocket Colposcope. Meanwhile, they’re trying to form new partnerships
for population-level studies in low and middle income countries. “Our partners
who use the device in their communities are the ones who will demonstrate its
impact to prevent cervical cancer,” said Ramanujam.

One such partner is Jose Jeronimo, senior advisor for women's cancers at PATH,
who has been working closely with Ramanujam’s team since the beginning of this
project. “The only way we will reduce the burden of cervical cancer in
developing countries is by creating simple devices at an affordable price that
can be deployed in areas with limited resources,” said Jeronimo, who has used
previous versions of the device in research studies in the field. “The Pocket
Colposcope is one brilliant device that fits perfectly with the work we need
to do in those areas. Millions of women will benefit from this device, and
many lives will be saved.”

To learn more or inquire about partnerships, contact Marlee Krieger at
marlee.krieger@duke.edu.

### **Securing New Grants**

To date, development and testing of the Pocket Colposcope has been funded by
the Duke Global Health Institute, Duke University and the National Cancer
Institute. Two of the team leaders, postdoctoral researcher Jenna Mueller and
research project manager Marlee Krieger, are seeking additional funding from
the National Institutes of Health to advance the project to its next phase in
Peru and Honduras.

### **Engaging More Students and Faculty**

This spring and summer, through the Bass Connections program at Duke, a
faculty-student research team will be exploring how to increase adoption,
distribution, and acceptance of the device in Peru. They’ll meet with
stakeholders—policy makers, manufacturers, distributors, clinicians, patients
and others—to identify bottlenecks to consider in the development and
marketing of the technology.

### **Addressing Needs beyond the Colposcope**

The team’s work hasn’t ended at the colposcope. Using a human-centered design
process—an approach driven by the needs identified by individuals who will be
using the product—they’ve developed a more woman-centric replacement for a
traditional speculum. Traditional speculums can be uncomfortable, and women’s
aversion to them can be a barrier to seeking care, so a more comfortable
instrument could increase screening uptake. The device is currently in
clinical testing; in a volunteer study, it was strongly preferred over the
speculum.

The team is also developing a low-cost cervical cancer treatment that delivers
gelatinous ethanol to the lesion site. This method does not need electricity
or hard-to-obtain products that are required for traditional treatment
approaches.

“Many people in low-resource settings don’t have access to cervical cancer
treatment,” said Ramanujam, “so we can’t just develop screening technologies.
We have to think through the entire process and see what we can do to make
screening and treatment options available.”

## LEARN MORE:

  * To learn more about the project or inquire about partnership
    opportunities, visit the Center for Global Women’s Health Technologies
    website.
  * **Duke students:** To learn more or apply for the Bass Connections
    project, visit the Bass Connections website.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

