

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Bioengineers Develop New Approach to Regenerate Back Discs

July 16, 2013 | by Whitney Howell

Cell therapies may stop or reverse the pain and disability of degenerative
disc disease and the loss of material between vertebrae, according to Duke
scientists

The health conditions affect thousands of Americans. To use cell therapies,
however, scientists have to keep the cells alive, synthesize the appropriate
replacement material and get it to the right place in a patient's spine. With
newly made biomaterials from Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering, that goal
could be closer.

In a proof-of-concept study published online in the journal Biomaterials,
graduate student Aubrey Francisco and biomedical engineering professor Lori
Setton describe a new biomaterial designed to deliver a booster shot of
reparative cells to the nucleus pulposus, or NP -- the jelly-like cushion
naturally found between spinal discs. The NP tissue distributes pressure and
provides spine mobility, helping to relieve back pain.

"Our primary goal was to create a material that would be liquid at the start,
gel after injection in the disc space and keep the cells in the location where
they're needed," Setton said. "Our second goal was to create a material that
would provide the delivered cells with the environmental cues to promote their
persistence and biosynthesis."

Disc degeneration is a common problem as people age. Over time, the soft,
compressible discs that work as the spine’s shock absorbers break down.
Although this intervertebral disc degeneration can occur anywhere along the
spine, it mainly happens near the neck and lower back, causing intense pain.
Individuals with this condition can also develop herniated discs,
osteoarthritis or spinal narrowing, known as spinal stenosis.

Previous lab research has shown that re-implanting NP cells, or even stem
cells, can delay disc degeneration. Several companies already offer cell
delivery strategies, but the methods are poor and ineffective. "They allow the
cells to quickly migrate out of and away from the injection site," Francisco
said.

The Duke team's delivery strategy keeps the cells in place and provides cues
that mimic laminin, a protein in native nucleus pulposus tissue. Laminin is
normally found in juvenile but not degenerated discs and allows injected cells
to attach and remain in place with the delivered biomaterial. Laminin may also
enable the cells to survive longer and produce more of the appropriate
extracellular matrix or structural underpinning of the discs that help stop
degeneration, Setton said.

The researchers, funded by the National Institutes of Health, developed a gel
mix designed to reintroduce NP cells to the intervertebral disc (IVD) site.
The gel mixes together three components: the protein laminin-111 that has been
chemically modified and two polyethylene glycol (PEG) hydrogels that can
attach to the modified laminin. Separately, these substances remain in a
liquid state. The gel, however, holds the cells in place upon injection.

The researchers worked with postdoctoral scholar Robby Bowles to tag NP cells
with the bioluminescent marker luciferase and track their location. They then
injected the gel into rats’ tails just as a surgeon would deliver cells to a
patient. After puncturing the tail’s thin outer layer, they held the needle in
place for one minute, delivered the injection to the rat’s IVD site, and
closed the injection spot. The solution began to solidify after five minutes
and was completely set at 20 minutes.

Images of the luciferase biomarker showed that more than 14 days after
injection significantly more cells remained in place when delivered within the
biomaterial carrier compared to cells delivered in a liquid suspension.
Francisco explained that using the currently available cellular delivery
strategies, 100 percent of the injected NP cells leak out of an IVD site
within three to four days after injection.

The results, although preliminary, could have a positive impact on the future
of cell therapy, Setton said. More work, however, is still needed to optimize
equipment and models that deliver cells to a larger IVD sites closer to human
size, the researchers said.

"The concept is that these cells will be promoted to produce matrix that can
support tissue regeneration or arrest degeneration," Setton said. "Additional
studies that evaluate disc height or matrix hydration following cell delivery
would be important to achieve this goal. There's definitely interest and
certainly real potential there."

Collaborators from Duke University Medical Center were William Richardson,
M.D., a spine surgeon in the Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, and Farshid
Guilak, professor of orthopaedic surgery and biomedical engineering. Robert
Mancino, a 2013 bachelor’s degree recipient from the Pratt School of
Engineering, worked on this study as part of his independent research.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

