

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke's First Women Engineers Remembered

December 1, 1986 | Brenda Chunn

In 1986, a student profiled the first two female graduates of Duke's College
of Engineering

_From the Fall 1986 DukEngineer Magazine_

Yes there was some discrimination, but for each person that discriminated
there was someone else saying "We like what you're doing,' " states Mrs. Marie
Reel (née Foote) reflecting upon her engineering days at Duke. Both she and
Mrs. Muriel Williams (nee Theorsen— "Cleo" for short) studied electrical
engineering at Duke and graduated as the first two women engineers in 1946.
What might appear as an unavoidable obstacle, sex discrimination, did not
affect these two women. In fact, Mrs. Williams replied, "There was absolutely
no discrimination. The professors and students were very objective."

Duke still has the same appeal as it did forty years ago. Mrs. Reel chose
Duke, as many of today's entering women engineers, because of its strong
engineering program as well as its strong liberal arts program. In contrast,
Duke first attracted Mrs. Williams because of its beautiful campus, one that
she first saw driving through—in the not-so-popular car—on a family vacation
when she was twelve. These two women met at Duke, where they first began their
careers as women engineers.

While at Duke, Mrs. Reel involved herself in the Chapel Choir and also wrote
for The DukEngineer. Her memories of Duke are "wonderful" and she prides Duke
most for its opportunities in academics, leadership, and moral growth.

She worked for IEEE for two years after college before going to Germany with
her husband, who was in the army, and raising two children. Upon returning to
the United States, she wished to enroll as a student at Texas A&M, but was
denied admission and instead received a job as an instructor in their
electrical engineering department. She describes this experience with fond
enthusiasm.

Although Mrs. Reel concedes that there are many more opportunities for women
in engineering then there were forty years ago, she led a very successful and
interesting career. After working for Texas A&M, she worked with the Atlantic
Research Corporation as a technical writer in the Central Group; her
responsibilities included writing monthly reports and procurement
specifications for rocket motors. After another period of time in Germany, she
came back to work in the Atlantic Research Corporation's Telecommunications
Department, where she again served as a technical writer and also as an
engineering consultant. She achieved the position of chief specification
engineer for the Washington, DC, area.

Mrs. Reel's interests extend beyond engineering. She is an avid gardener, and
enjoys hunting, fishing, and knitting also. Her involvement in her community
is commendable; she is president of her community association, and she
volunteers her knowledge and time recording math textbooks for the blind.

Mrs. Muriel Williams, unlike Mrs. Reel, did not first enter Duke as an
engineering student. After one year of studying Physics at Duke, she earned a
scholarship from the Curtiss Wright Company (Corporation now), as part of
their drive to get more women involved in the war effort. One thousand women
having at least two years of technical background were sent to ten good
schools on this scholarship. Mrs. Williams, as the youngest girl and with only
one year of technical training, was sent to Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
for twelve intensive months of a specially designed course; she was trained to
help in airplane plants. She worked at Curtiss Wright for some time, before
returning to Duke and entering as an engineering student in the navy V-12
program. There were mostly navy officer candidates in her classes and because
these men were needed in the war, she attended classes the entire year from
January through January. As a result, Mrs. Williams earned her degree in the
same year she would have even if she had not worked at Curtiss Wright. She
remembers studying very hard, having to wear stockings on Sundays, wearing her
raincoat over her pajamas for early morning classes, listening to Perry Como
sing in the chapel, and having German prisoners of war doing yard work on Duke
campus.

Mrs. Williams says that although she never felt discrimination in industry,
there were restrictions. There was a tendency to place women in routine,
boring jobs. Right out of school she worked a "monotonous" job calibrating
ammeters for the government. After returning from Brazil with her father she
worked on a "boring" project at MIT choosing American technical books for an
engineeering school in Brazil. She did not find all of her jobs to be that
uninteresting, however. After marrying Mr. George Williams, also an engineer,
she worked as a draftsman for topographic maps, as a statistician for Minute
Maid orange juice, and in conjunction with a precision machine shop
calibrating tools to one-tenthousandth of an inch. Her engineering background
proved very useful and provided her the opportunity to seek and pursue a
variety of careers. She most enjoyed her work as a technical editor where she
was involved with all of the company's projects, not just one specific one.

Both women are very encouraging and enthusiastic about engineering. According
to Mrs. Reel, "aside from professional opportunities, it is just a good
education on how the world works." Especially for women, an engineering
education is beneficial; it provides that knowledge and expertise necessary
for rapidly growing technology as well as the ability to "spot a sleezy
repairman."

_Brenda Chunn is a freshman in Biomedical Engineering._

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

