

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Teams Earn NIH Funding as Part of National Effort to Combat Opioid
Crisis

September 26, 2019

More than $24 million in funding is part of the Helping to End Addiction Long-
term Initiative

Research teams from Duke received more than $24 million in federal grants to
address challenges related to pain and the opioid crisis through the NIH’s
Helping to End Addiction Long-term Initiative (NIH HEAL Initiative).

The federal research initiative, launched in early 2018 by NIH Director
Francis S. Collins, aims to apply scientific solutions to improve treatments
for chronic pain, curb the rates of opioid use disorder and overdose, and
achieve long-term recovery for opioid addiction.

The Duke research awards are part of the NIH’s funding allocation that
includes 375 grants across 41 states. Additional awards of more than $12
million are anticipated over the next 5 years, which would bring Duke’s total
grant amount to more than $36 million.

Among the supported projects is a research program to improve the efficacy of
using an implantable medical device that stimulates the spinal cord to treat
chronic neuropathic pain. Currently, fewer than two-thirds of people who
receive this therapy experience at least a 50 percent reduction in pain,
creating a need for new patterns of spinal cord stimulation that provide
better pain suppression. The project is led by Warren Grill, professor of
biomedical engineering in Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering. It is funded at
$1.1 million over 3 years.

“Duke researchers continue to be at the forefront of tackling some of the
biggest issues that impact health and wellness in our world today,” said Mary
E. Klotman, M.D., dean of the Duke University School of Medicine. “This
support from the NIH will allow our faculty to explore new ways of managing
chronic pain and overcoming addiction – efforts that could improve the lives
of millions of people.”

Read the original article to learn more about the additional research projects
supported through this funding

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

