

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# ECE Alum Brandon Noia Wins Prestigious Dissertation Award

April 2, 2015

Dissertation Is Among the First in the World on Test Solutions for 3D Stacked
Integrated Circuits

Brandon Noia, who earned his PhD from Duke ECE in 2014 under the advisement of
Krishnendu Chakrabarty, the William H. Younger Distinguished Professor of
Engineering at Duke, has been selected to receive the 2014 Outstanding
Dissertation Award from the European Design and Automation Association (EDAA).

Noia received the award, in the area of New Directions in Circuit and System
Test, for his dissertation "Design-for-Test and Test Optimization Techniques
for TSV-based 3D Stacked ICs."

This award, one of the most prestigious PhD dissertation awards in the field
of Electronic Design Automation (EDA), recognizes the importance of university
research to the advancement of design automation and test and encourages young
researchers to work in the field. The award includes a monetary prize and an
offer to publish the dissertation in the Springer EDAA Outstanding Monographs
series. It was presented at the DATE 2015 conference in Grenoble, France.

Noia's dissertation is among the first worldwide on test solutions for 3D
stacked ICs, a leading technology contender for the next generation of high-
performance and low-footprint integrated circuits (ICs). Breakthroughs like
Noia’s in test technology will help address the obstacles hindering mainstream
adoption of 3D integration, allowing higher levels of silicon integration,
fewer defect escapes, and ultimately commercial exploitation.

The impact of Noia’s research on probing is evident from the investment made
by The Semiconductor Research Corporation, a consortium of major semiconductor
companies (including Intel, IBM, and Texas Instruments, among others), in
sponsoring Noia’s dissertation and filing three issued US patents resulting
from his research. Noia’s PhD dissertation led to six journal articles, four
of which were published in the IEEE Transactions. He has also published 10
conference papers at highly selective venues such as ITC (three times), VTS,
and ETS. Springer has published his PhD thesis as a book in expanded form.

Noia currently works at AMD in Boxborough, Mass., as a senior design engineer.

Duke ECE congratulates Brandon Noia on this prestigious award, and commends
him on his extremely high productivity and stellar publication record.

Read more about EDAA and this award

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

