

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Element Genomics Acquired by UCB

April 11, 2018

The Duke-based startup uses novel epigenomic editing techniques to improve
understanding of genome structure and function to identify potential new drug
targets

Element Genomics, a biotech startup founded by Charles Gersbach, Tim Reddy,
Kris Wood and Gregory Crawford, was recently acquired by UCB, a global
pharmaceuticals company with a focus on neurology and immunology. Gersbach,
the Rooney Family Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering at Duke
University, and his collaborators founded the company in 2015 after developing
novel technology to characterize the non-coding genome, opening up new classes
of drug targets for common diseases.

The transaction, which includes both upfront and short-term success-based
milestone payments, will amount to $30 million.

The basis for the Element Genomics platform is the comprehensive mapping of
gene function and regulation. This includes technology developed at Duke using
the CRISPR/Cas9 platform, a genetic editing technique that allows researchers
to make changes to targeted sequences of DNA. Typically, researchers will use
the platform to make specific, permanent edits to a genome by cutting the DNA.
But rather than permanently change the DNA sequence, Element Genomics’
technology alters how a portion of the DNA is regulated, allowing them to
study how genes and pathways of interest interact by turning the targeted
sections of the genome on or off.

“We were using these tools to characterize the non-coding genome, which
includes the 98 percent of the human genome. We don’t really understand how
most of it works, but it is clear that it plays a large role in drug response
and disease susceptibility,” said Gersbach. “We were developing tools for
perturbing that portion of the genome, and that opened up a whole new class of
drug targets for common diseases. We quickly realized the technology was
something that could go beyond our academic lab.”

In August of 2015, Gersbach and his colleagues approached Barry Myers in the
Duke-Coulter Translational Partnership, which had supported Gersbach’s
research at Duke, for help to form a start-up. The team received further
support from John Oxaal, who was then working as the first Entrepreneur-in-
Residence at Duke BME. Oxaal, an alumnus of Duke Engineering and a serial
entrepreneur himself, worked with the team to finalize licenses and find space
in an incubator in Durham, and currently serves as CEO of the company.

“We at Element are thrilled that UCB shared our vision for treating disease
through knowledge gained through functional genomics and the vast and largely
unexplored biology of the epigenome,” said Oxaal, “We believe that together
with UCB we can much more quickly harness the power of this approach.”

After the acquisition, Element Genomics, which currently employs eight Duke
alumni, will continue to operate in the NC Biolabs co-working space in The
Chesterfield in downtown Durham. There, the team will work closely with UCB’s
genomics research arm and continue to collaborate with the academic labs run
by Gersbach, Reddy, Crawford and Wood at Duke.

“We are tremendously indebted to Duke, and the Department of Biomedical
Engineering in particular, for fostering an entrepreneurial environment that
makes translating technology out of academia possible,” said Gersbach. “This
would not have happened without the support of the Coulter Translational
Partnership, under the leadership of Barry Myers, and the Entrepreneur-in-
Residence program, initiated by Ashutosh Chilkoti, the chair of Duke BME.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

