

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Exploring the Mechanics of Gene Expression

September 26, 2018

New NSF grant links four Duke engineers to explore how mechanical changes to
genetic material affects gene expression, cancer development

A team of engineers at Duke University have secured a four-year, $2 million
“Emerging Frontiers” grant from the National Science Foundation to explore how
structural changes to DNA affect gene regulation, as well as the downstream
implications for cellular processes such as tumor development.

The project capitalizes on varied strengths across engineering at Duke
University, from gene editing to mechanical engineering to computational
modeling. At the heart of the project is technology developed by Charles
Gersbach, the Rooney Family Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering,
that uses a variation of the genetic editing system CRISPR-Cas9 to precisely
modulate the epigenome.

The epigenome includes all of the proteins, chemical modifications and other
biomolecules that package, support, and control the expression of genes
encoded by DNA. Our genomic DNA constitutes the blueprint for life, but the
epigenome determines which parts are used, as well as where and when.
Together, the molecules that make up our DNA and epigenome are referred to as
chromatin.

“The complexity of human biology is determined not by how many genes we have,
but rather how those genes are dialed up and down dynamically in different
cell types and in response to different conditions,” said Gersbach. “The
sequencing of the human genome has led to significant advances in our
knowledge of gene function, but we still have a very poor understanding of how
the control elements of our genome turn genes on and off. Manipulation of the
epigenome with CRISPR-Cas9 technologies allows us to study these questions
with precision that wasn’t previously possible.”

While the original CRISPR-Cas9 system locates and cuts specific sequences of
DNA, Gersbach and his colleagues have engineered it to instead manipulate the
epigenome adjacent to specific sequences.

In the new project, this technology will be used to introduce changes to the
chromatin structure around the C-MYC gene, which is known to cause cells to
become cancerous under certain conditions. To link the changes in chromatin
structure to cancer progression, the team will take advantage of lab-grown
human organoid technology developed by Xiling Shen, the Hawkins Family
Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering at Duke.

To better understand the underpinnings of these changes, the group will turn
to both computer simulations and novel biosensors.

Michael Rubinstein, professor of mechanical engineering and materials science,
biomedical engineering, chemistry, and physics at Duke, will computationally
model the mechanical properties of the chromatin and how this affects
molecular dynamics and gene expression.

Brenton Hoffman, assistant professor of biomedical engineering and cell
biology at Duke, will develop technologies to directly monitor the changes to
chromatin using another CRISPR-based system that places fluorescent molecules
at specific points of the genome. These molecules brighten and dim depending
on their distance from one another, providing a way to image the effect of
programmed epigenetic changes on genome structure at the single-molecule scale
in living cells.

“This combination of innovative approaches to model, image and manipulate
chromatin structure and its role in complex processes like tumor development
has the potential to dramatically catalyze our fundamental understanding of
biology,” added Gersbach. “It is a testament to the interdisciplinary and
collaborative nature across the Pratt School of Engineering.”

The grant is one of eight projects recently awarded a total of $16 million for
research to characterize the regulation of gene activity and expression, and
to create strategies to modify those processes without altering the DNA
sequence.

Supported by the NSF Directorate for Engineering's Emerging Frontiers in
Research and Innovation (EFRI) program, and co-funded by the Biological
Sciences Directorate and Mathematical and Physical Sciences Directorate, the
awards signal a major investment in engineering biology and align with one of
NSF's 10 Big Ideas for long-term discovery and innovation, Understanding the
Rules of Life: Predicting Phenotype. Established in 2007, the EFRI program
seeks to inspire and enable researchers to expand the limits of knowledge in
the service of grand engineering challenges and national needs.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

