

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Encouraging Engineering and Entrepreneurship

April 1, 2018

A Q&A with Barry Myers

Barry Myers is a man of many hats—or helmets, depending on the project. A
professor of biomedical engineering at Duke University, Myers studies the
biomechanics of catastrophic head and neck injuries, such as those suffered in
a car accident or through contact sports like football. But in the last few
years, he has built a second career as the director of innovation at the Duke
Clinical and Translational Science Institute (CTSI), where he helps translate
research into marketable products, and as the director of the Duke-Coulter
Translational Research Partnership, where he helps support collaborative
research that addresses unmet clinical needs and leads to commercial products.

That research and entrepreneurial experience converged in 2016, when the
National Football League and the NFL Players Association asked Myers to lead a
new initiative to create and develop safer football helmets and protective
equipment for players. Dubbed “HeadHealth,” the partnership between Duke CTSI
and NFL’s Football Research Inc. encourages entrepreneurs and researchers to
develop and market improved football helmet technologies for better head and
neck safety.

From his unique position at the intersection of engineering and translational
research, Myers shared his perspectives on Duke’s growing strengths across the
entrepreneurial pipeline.

**How did the Duke branch of the Coulter Foundation Translational Partnership
Program get started?**

We were looking for a way to help biomedical engineers become more successful
in translating university inventions into the marketplace. Initially we were
one of more than 60 schools competing for the grant for the Coulter program.
We were one of nine schools to be chosen for a five-year grant, and over that
initial period we funded several startups and licenses for industry. The
foundation was excited by our success and we were ultimately granted a $20
million endowment, which has been a benefit to the engineering and medical
programs here. In its first 10 years, the Duke-Coulter Partnership awarded $8
million to 39 projects, yielding $489 million in follow-on funding and 13
licenses to industry. Multiple companies have also been founded through the
program, including Oncoscope, PhaseBio, Sentilus, Zelanux Biomedical,
Retroject, Biomimetix, Cernova, Cytex, Gateway Bio, Microelastic Systems,
Element Genomics, Imageon, Celldom, Editas Medicine, and Isolere Bio.

**What other programs have helped foster entrepreneurial work in Duke BME?**

In 2005, the National Institutes of Health announced their own Clinical and
Translational Science Initiative, and they were specifically looking for tools
that could be translated out of universities. We were fortunate to get both
the CTSI and Coulter grants at the same time, so we went from having limited
resources for translational work and no project managers to suddenly having a
strong resource base. From there, we hired skilled project managers to help
the faculty with project development and walk them through the regulatory and
commercial side of development, which has also been a great tool for the
department.

**Why is Duke BME a good place to pursue your own entrepreneurial work?**

Having the two programs at Duke that are focused on entrepreneurial and
translational work, and subsequently being nationally recognized for those two
programs, really drew the attention of the NFL, which was interested in
creating products to improve head protection. Duke has a long history of
working in the field of biomechanics, especially regarding head and neck
injuries, and coupled with the support from BME and CTSI, there are very few
places in the country that have those tools and skills available. So Duke was
really the unique and perfect place to run this program.

**What advice do you give to researchers who are interested in
entrepreneurship?**

People most often have questions about finding the right home for their
technology and subsequently working on regulatory work and raising capital.
I’d advise anyone interested in entrepreneurship to explore the tools that are
available to them—at Duke, they can work with Coulter, CTSI, or the Office of
Licenses and Ventures. It’s always helpful to have someone on your side to
support your projects and help you build an infrastructure of project managers
who know how to make your company successful.

* * *

**MicroElastic Ultrasound Systems**

One of the companies to arise through the Duke-Coulter Translational Research
Partnership is MicroElastic Ultrasound Systems. Founded in 2016 by Peter
Hollender, a research scientist in BME, the company is using technology
developed in collaboration with Mark Palmeri, an associate professor of the
practice in BME, to develop a handheld tool that allows clinicians to measure
the elasticity of skin by using ultrasound to locally vibrate tissue. Although
the tool has multiple applications for evaluating procedures in aesthetic
dermatology, physicians can also use the tool to better evaluate and track
skin manifestations of difficult-to-manage diseases like Graft-Versus-Host
disease (GVHD). So far, the MicroElastic team has received a phase 1 STTR
grant from the NIH to develop their prototype into a handheld commercial
product for GVHD.

* * *

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

