

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Engineering Systems for Future Computing

April 6, 2021

In this Q&A, quantum information scientist Kenneth Brown explains why Duke is
situated to lead the quantum systems charge, and how students can begin to
explore the field

## 1\. Can you tell us a bit about your research interests, and what goes on
in your lab at Duke?

My broad research interest is understanding how we can use quantum mechanical
phenomena to improve technology and our understanding of nature. Most people
are unaware that modern technology from computer chips to scanners at the
supermarket rely on technology designed using the principles of quantum
mechanics. The function of these devices relies on the fact that electrons
behave like waves and represents the practical application of the principle of
wave-particle duality.

At present, we are seeing the rise of quantum information technology, which
uses further features of quantum mechanics—notably, entanglement, which is a
correlation between quantum objects that defies a classical description. My
group is interested in constructing quantum computers that use entanglement to
perform calculations algorithmically faster than regular computers.

These computers are still in development and my research has four areas:
constructing robust quantum computers from trapped ions, developing firmware
and software to control quantum computers, optimizing methods for quantum
error correction and using parts of quantum information processors to develop
sensors.

**Quantum mechanics:** the mathematical description of how subatomic particles
behave and interact with one another.

## 2\. What makes Duke different from other universities and research
organizations, where quantum computing is concerned?

Quantum information technology has just reached the point where the quantum
computers are starting to challenge classical computers on specific tasks and
the reliability of systems is sufficiently good that they can be deployed on
the cloud. This results in a shift in research questions away from basic
science questions to more applied science, computer science, and engineering.

One key difference at Duke is that the bulk of our quantum computing activity
is in the School of Engineering. Other universities have strong reputations or
large footprints in quantum information and/or quantum physics, but Duke is
really interested in building the physical systems to advance quantum
computing.

We also have the newly launched Duke Quantum Center, or DQC. At the DQC we are
taking a system-level approach to build state-of-the-art quantum computers for
academic researchers. At present, we have hardware available for physicists to
test quantum simulation algorithms. In the near future, we plan to have a
unique “user lab,” with systems available for quantum computer engineering
research, including compiler development and design and automation.

> "Most people are unaware that modern technology from computer chips to
> scanners at the supermarket rely on technology designed using the principles
> of quantum mechanics."
>
> Kenneth Brown, Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

## 3\. Is there a project on the horizon that you’re really excited about?
What will that project mean for advancing the field?

I am really excited for the DQC user lab for two reasons: First, I’ll be able
to continue my own research on the implementation of quantum error correction
codes and fault-tolerant quantum computing on a real system. Second, we’ll be
able to establish a stable, open, academic platform for computer engineers and
computer architects to develop quantum operating systems. There has already
been a lot of interest expressed by researchers at other universities, so we
know there is an unmet need that the DQC can help with.

**Quantum computer:** a computer that stores and manipulates information by
controlling the quantum state of a physical system.

## 4\. How would students who are interested in exploring quantum computing
proceed? What kinds of opportunities are available to those who are just
starting out?

There are a lot of great opportunities at Duke. As part of the NSF STAQ
project, we hold an annual summer school. Duke students in Trinity and Pratt
organized a House Course on Quantum Information this semester and they plan to
continue offering it in the future. And, I teach an upper-level course for
engineering students called Introduction to Quantum Engineering.

In addition, the Duke Undergraduate Quantum Information Society puts on a lot
of events. Recently, D-Tech, DAML, and DUQIS hosted a quantum industry panel
with panelists from Google, IBM, Rigetti, Honeywell, and Microsoft to discuss
opportunities in the field. There are opportunities to do research at the
undergraduate level, but I have to admit that I currently have more applicants
than positions.

## 5.What might one do with a degree in ECE that’s focused on quantum
computing?

An ECE degree is a perfect degree for quantum technology. Jobs in quantum
computing include designing complex electronics systems near absolute zero,
constructing advanced optical systems, and deploying software tools to control
quantum systems. At present, many industrial quantum computing research jobs
require advanced degrees, but when looking at the entire ecosystem, it is
clear that bachelor's-level engineers already make significant contributions
at the companies that supply devices to the quantum industry.

Learn more About Quantum Computing at Duke

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

