

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Engineered Swarmbots Rely on Peers for Survival

February 29, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

Duke University bioengineers design cells that die if they leave the confines
of their capsule

Duke University researchers have engineered microbes that can’t run away from
home; those that do will quickly die without protective proteins produced by
their peers.

Dubbed “swarmbots” for their ability to survive in a crowd, the system could
be used as a safeguard to stop genetically modified organisms from escaping
into the surrounding environment. The approach could also be used to reliably
program colonies of bacteria to respond to changes in their surrounding
environment, such as releasing specific molecules on cue.

The system is described online February 29, 2016, in Molecular Systems
Biology.

“Safety has always been a concern when modifying bacteria for medical
applications because of the danger of uncontrolled proliferation,” said
Lingchong You, the Paul Ruffin Scarborough Associate Professor of Engineering
at Duke University.

“Other labs have addressed this issue by making cells rely on unnatural amino
acids for survival or by introducing a ‘kill switch’ that is activated by some
chemical,” You said. “Ours is the first example that uses collective survival
as a way of intrinsically realizing this safeguard.”

In the experiment, You and his colleagues engineered a non-pathogenic strain
of E. coli to produce a chemical called AHL. They also modified the cells so
that, in high enough concentrations, AHL causes them to produce an antidote to
antibiotics. When the population of E. coli is dense enough, the antidote
keeps them alive, even in the presence of antibiotics that would otherwise
kill them.

The researchers then confined a sufficiently large number of the bacteria to a
capsule and bathed it in antibiotics. As long as the E. coli remained inside
their container where their density was high, they all survived. But if
individual bacteria escaped, they were quickly killed off by the antibiotic.

While this specific example would not work in general environments without the
antibiotic present, You says that the experiments are a proof of concept. The
concept can be applied to other circuits that can implement collective
survival in one or multiple populations.

“In general, this concept does not depend on the use of antibiotics,” said
You. “There are multiple directions we are hoping to follow with this
platform. We’re using non-pathogenic E. coli, but we hope to demonstrate that
the same concept can be established with a probiotic strain of bacteria.”

“We can imagine programming probiotics that can respond to changes in their
environmental conditions,” said Shuqiang Huang, a postdoctoral associate in
You’s lab. “That response could include delivering proteins or chemicals to
modulate the microbiome.”

Another way to take advantage of the technology would be to insert a contained
population of bacteria that could help the body respond to intruders.

“We want to program cells to respond to signals produced by pathogenic
bacteria,” said Anna Lee, a graduate student in You’s lab, who plans to pursue
this line of research for her doctoral thesis. “We could inhibit their
virulence and attack them at the same time.”

“This is the foundation,” said You. “Once we’ve established the platform, then
we have the freedom to introduce whatever proteins we choose and allow these
cells to engage in many different applications.”

This work was supported by the National Science Foundation (CBET‐0953202), the
National Institutes of Health (R01GM098642R01GM110494), the Army Research
Office (W911NF‐14‐1‐0490) and a David and Lucile Packard Fellowship.

###

“Coupling spatial segregation with synthetic circuits to control bacterial
survival.” Shuqiang Huang, Anna Lee, Ryan Tsoi, Feilun Wu, Ying Zhang, Kam
Leong, and Lingchong You. Molecular Systems Biology, Online Feb. 29, 2016.
DOI: 10.15252/msb.20156567

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

