

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Engineering Dean Named Provost at the University of Virginia

June 17, 2015

The Pratt School of Engineering experienced growth in student enrollment,
research and other areas during Tom Katsouleas' seven years as dean

Tom Katsouleas, the Vinik Dean of Engineering at Duke‘s Pratt School of
Engineering, was named executive vice president and provost at the University
of Virginia on Wednesday.

During Katsouleas’ seven-year tenure at Duke, engineering graduate student
enrollment has risen by 62 percent, Pratt launched six new research centers
and new educational initiatives including the Master of Engineering program,
and external research expenditures nearly doubled to $75.6 million in FY14.
Duke Engineering faculty accounted for 40 percent of all new research awards
to the university last year (excluding the medical school).

Since 2009, Duke has been among the fastest-rising of the nation’s top 50
engineering schools, reaching 18th in the U.S. News & World Report
undergraduate rankings this year.

Three months ago, Katsouleas and partners led a national initiative in which
122 U.S. engineering schools signed a letter of commitment to President Obama
pledging to establish Grand Challenges education programs at their
institutions. The effort builds on the National Academy of Engineering-
endorsed Grand Challenge Scholars Program for undergraduates, which has
graduated over 70 students at Duke alone since Katsouleas co-founded the
program in 2009.

“Tom has been a transformative dean,” said Provost Sally Kornbluth. “He has
led Pratt with a relentless focus on excellence. His enthusiasm for connecting
faculty and students with society’s biggest challenges has made the Pratt
School, and Duke University, a better place. We all wish him well in his new
role.”

In a letter to the Pratt faculty and staff, Katsouleas wrote, “While I look
forward to this next challenge, it is with a mixture of pride and sadness that
I leave Duke and Pratt. This has been the most gratifying period of my
professional career, and I look back and forward to Pratt’s progress with
excitement.”

Katsouleas’ last day at Duke will be Aug. 14. A search for a new dean, headed
by electrical and computer engineering professor Jeffrey Glass, will begin
immediately. Until a new dean is named, senior associate dean for research
George Truskey will serve as interim dean.

A news release from the University of Virginia about Katsouleas’ appointment
can be read here.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

