

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Engineering Solutions to Foodborne Illness

May 16, 2019

Christine Schinedler and Dutch Waanders's startup PathSpot aims to make
restaurant kitchens cleaner, and safer, for consumers

Romaine lettuce. Ground beef. Eggs. Chicken. Turkey. The list of foodborne
illness outbreaks in 2018 was so long it mirrored a grocery list and made
eating some of your favorite meals seem like a risky activity. The Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention estimates that more than 48 million people get
sick, 128,000 are hospitalized, and 3,000 die from foodborne diseases each
year in the United States. Despite the prevalence of foodborne pathogens,
there isn’t an easy way to make sure they don’t pass from people to produce.

After watching what felt like endless newscasts announcing a new foodborne
outbreak, Chris-tine Schindler and Dutch Waanders decided they wanted to do
something to address the issue.

Both 2015 graduates of Duke University’s Department of Biomedical Engineering,
Schindler and Waanders recognized that their combined experience in
entrepreneurship, global health and engineering gave them a unique perspective
on the problem. They wanted to create an easy-to-use device that could detect
signs of pathogens like salmonella, E. coli or listeria in a real-world
setting.

“We looked to see if there was a company out there already working on this,
but we couldn’t find anyone doing instantaneous detection of pathogens in food
service or in the restaurant space,” says Schindler.

Using electronic components bought at a RadioShack going-out-of-business sale,
the duo created a hand-dryer-sized device that uses spectroscopy to scan
people’s hands for food-borne contaminants. As light from the device bounces
off hands and back into the camera, a proprietary algorithm compares the wave-
lengths of the reflected light to those of different indicators for foodborne
pathogens including listeria, salmonella, hepatitis A and norovirus. If no
contaminants are detected, the device flashes a green light and employees are
cleared to handle food.

“We went to restaurants door to door to ask them about the issue and what they
needed in their facilities,” says Waanders. “People said that they’ve waited
for a device like this for ten years. There was a ton of enthusiasm, so
Christine and I quit our jobs and started working full time on PathSpot.”

In tests in restaurants in Durham, New York City and Detroit, the researchers
observed that each device was used an average of 170 times each week, and an
average of 20 percent of scans detected some form of contamination in the
first week.

Although PathSpot is the team’s first startup to specifically tackle a health-
related issue, Schindler and Waanders gained valuable entrepreneurial ex-
perience when launching their national non-profit, Girls Engineering Change.
Founded by Schindler in 2012 during her sophomore year at Duke, GEC was
created to help young girls realize the difference engineering can make in the
world by giving them hands-on de-sign experience.

“We bring girls to college campuses and teach them how to build and assemble
things that are then donated throughout the world so they can see the real
impact of engineering,” says Schindler. “For example, we have them make solar-
powered USB chargers that we’ll donate to disaster-relief settings. These are
simple products, but they can make a big difference to people in need.”

As the organization grew and chapters were established across the nation, it
was even recognized by President Bill Clinton. Although Schindler and Waanders
have handed over the reins to a new team of leaders, they credit their time
with Girls Engineering Change for showing them how they could use their
engineering education to address unmet needs.

Today, the pair is working to expand PathSpot.

“The education we received at Duke really pre-pared us to use our engineering
skills to help people, and that’s why we’ve pursued the projects we have,”
says Schindler. “Our engineering skills can be translated to so many different
fields and in so many different ways, and I’m happy that we can serve both
consumers and business owners through PathSpot.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

