

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Engineering Creative Design

October 21, 2014 | By Ken Kingery

A Bass Connections class at Duke is bringing together engineering, dance and
theater students to explore communication through performance and interface
design.

A dance major, theater major and electrical engineering major walk into a
classroom together. While that may sound like the start of a bad joke in the
_DukEngineer_ , it actually happens three days a week in Duke’s Hull Dance
Studio.

For the past two years, students from different corners of campus have mixed
audio and visual engineering know-how with creative design and performance
experience. The resulting cocktail is a class that challenges students to get
out of their comfort zone, collaborate with disciplines they’d be unlikely to
work with otherwise and gain insights into how others solve problems.

“The class has an audio component, a visual component and a dance component,
but the larger umbrella is about performance,” said Tommy DeFrantz, a
professor of dance and African and African American Studies at Duke. “We talk
about sports and theater as performance, but for an engineer, the act of
writing code is also performance. No matter the profession, studying
performance in classes like this is about exploring the ways we navigate
energy in a directed fashion toward a goal.”

In the class, each group of students designs and builds an artistic
performance piece. Previous projects range from intricate boxes that open
automatically when approached to audio/visual experiences that are displayed
in a 3-dimensional space. Once built, the students then choreograph a way for
themselves or others to interact with the piece. The end goal of the endeavor
is to convey meaning or information to others through that interaction.

For engineering and information science students, it can be a challenge to
communicate through dance and art. Likewise, it can be a challenge for dance
and theater students to wire electrical components to a microcontroller and
write code. But for everyone involved, it is a challenge to create a
successful interface between technical expertise and beautiful technique.

That is a lesson all engineers would do well to learn.

“Why didn’t Sony make the iPod first?” asks Martin Brooke, associate professor
of electrical and computer engineering, who founded the class along with
DeFrantz and Tyler Walters, an associate professor of the practice in dance.
“They had all the pieces, but they lacked the ability to create the interface
people would want to use. All too often it’s not the company with the most
advanced technology that wins—it’s the company that designs the device with
the best interface and performance.”

The unique class was originally the result of the Provost’s Undergraduate
Team-Teaching Initiative (PUTTI), which developed new undergraduate courses
where faculty from different disciplines team-taught a problem-focused course.
But it has since become supported by Duke’s Bass Connections program—a
university-wide initiative providing students more exposure across disciplines
and partnerships with unlikely fellow thinkers.

“The class was incredibly useful for me,” said Mendal Diana Polish, a master
of fine arts student studying experimental and documentary arts, who recently
took the class and learned how to use a graphic programming environment called
Isadora. “Isadora has become a critical tool to my work and the class promoted
my fluency and application.”

So far, Brooke, DeFrantz and Walters have certainly succeeded in bringing a
diverse group of students together; their classes have included dance
students, electrical and computer engineering upperclassmen, master of fine
arts students and even a few basketball and football players. What’s more, the
university has worked to make the class count toward graduation—it’s
officially listed for elective credit in the Dance Program, Theater Studies,
Electrical and Computer Engineering, and Information Science and Information
Studies.

“One of the ways that Duke prides itself in being different in its
multidisciplinary programs,” said Brooke. “They put a lot of effort and energy
into making classes like this possible. It’s hard to pull off, but Duke does
it right.”

One more video on the project is available here.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

