

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Engineering Ph.D. Student Ramirez to Receive Cook Society Award

January 23, 2017

Originally posted by the Duke Graduate School

Juan Ramirez Jr., a fifth-year PhD candidate in electrical and computer
engineering, has been selected as the recipient of a 2017 Samuel DuBois Cook
Society Award.

The society was founded in 1997 in honor of the first African American faculty
member hired and tenured at Duke and his service to the university, to the
cause of African American advancement, and to the betterment of relations
between persons of all backgrounds.

Ramirez will receive his award at the Cook Society’s annual dinner and awards
ceremony on February 21 at the Washington Duke Inn. Graduate School assistant
deans J. Alan Kendrick and Melissa Bostrom nominated Ramirez for his efforts
in helping Duke recruit and retain students of color in engineering and the
broader STEM disciplines.

Those outreach efforts have included working for the past two years with the
SENSOR Academy at Duke, a hands-on education program that engages eighth-grade
underrepresented minority students in materials science and water quality
testing to encourage them to consider careers in science and engineering.

Ramirez has also assisted with recruiting efforts at annual conferences of the
Society for the Advancement of Chicanos and Native Americans in Science and
the Annual Biomedical Research Conference for Minority Students.

Before coming to Duke for his Ph.D., Ramirez, born and raised in East Chicago,
earned bachelor’s degrees in electrical engineering and mathematics from
Purdue University Calumet, a master’s in applied mathematics from Purdue
University, and a master’s in electrical engineering from the University of
Colorado. He has authored seven articles and has received a number of awards,
including the Charles R. Vail Memorial Outstanding Graduate Teaching Award
from Duke in 2014–2015.

“His background is an asset when he speaks to prospective graduate students
who are interested in applied mathematics and other science disciplines,”
Kendrick and Bostrom wrote of Ramirez in their nomination letter. “In short,
Juan has attained a level of achievement to which other women and men aspire.
Students enjoy talking to Juan about their future academic plans.”

Ramirez will be the tenth graduate student to receive a Cook Society Award.
Courtnea Rainey, a PhD graduate from psychology and neuroscience, received the
award in 2016.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

