

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Engineering Alumni, Faculty & Staff Honored at 2013 Awards Banquet

April 23, 2013

Nine outstanding members of the Pratt School of Engineering community were
honored at the 2013 Engineering Awards Banquet, held April 20, 2013 at the
Washington Duke Inn.

The annual event celebrates the honorees for their career accomplishments,
service to Duke Engineering and excellence in teaching, mentoring and
research.

#### Distinguished Alumni Awards

Recipients of the 2013 Engineering Alumni Awards were:

###### Michael R. S. Hill BSE’86, Distinguished Alumnus Award

Michael R. S. Hill BSE’86 joined Medtronic, Minneapolis, in July 1992 as a
scientist in the cardiac rhythm management division. He has served in
research, clinical, program, international and management roles over his 20
years there. He is a Technical Fellow (1998) and Bakken Fellow (2001). In
2012, Hill was inducted as a fellow of the American Institute of Medical and
Biological Engineering. He now leads the research and development efforts for
the heart failure business unit at Medtronic. He holds over 50 patents, has
authored several manuscripts and abstracts, and often is an invited lecturer
at international cardiac-related conferences and university events. A native
of Jackson, Tennesee, Hill received his undergraduate degrees in biomedical
and electrical engineering and in mathematics from Duke; his master's and PhD
degrees in biomedical engineering from Case Western Reserve University; and a
master's of business administration from the University of St. Thomas in
Minneapolis.

###### Nicholas A. J. Millington BSE’98, Distinguished Young Alumnus Award

Nicholas A. J. Millington BSE’98 leads product development at Sonos, Inc., in
Santa Barbara, Calif., where he was a founding member of the product team in
2003. Millington and his team developed the Sonos Wireless HiFi system,
including hardware and software for wireless music and home theater sound,
apps for controlling the system using smartphones and tablets, and connections
to streaming audio services. Sonos players are in 2.5 million rooms in the
Americas, Europe, Oceania and China. The product has won numerous awards from
major audio, technology and lifestyle publications, and is developed by a
globally distributed team of 150 electrical, mechanical, acoustic, software
and user experience engineers. Prior to Sonos, he headed the development team
at Microsoft Corp. that created the document and data storage engine powering
the SharePoint family of collaboration servers. Today SharePoint has in excess
of 100 million users worldwide. Millington received his bachelor’s degree in
electrical engineering from Duke, where he was an Angier B. Duke Scholar and a
member of Tau Beta Pi and Phi Beta Kappa.

###### Edward L. Koffenberger BSME’47, Distinguished Service Award

Edward L. Koffenberger BSME'47 retired as a DuPont executive in the textile
fibers department in 1989 after a 42-year career. He worked in manufacturing
and business planning and retired as worldwide manufacturing manager for
DuPont Lycra. He was a long-time elder in the Presbyterian church, serving in
three different churches and serving as moderator of New Castle Presbytery,
where he also served as treasurer for 14 years. At Duke he worked on several
annual fund drives and served on the engineering board of visitors for 15
years. He also served as a volunteer coach for football and basketball in
Richmond, Virginia and Newark, Delaware for many years and was a competitive
tennis player, playing in two national Senior Olympics. During the time
commitment to the military and the 21-hour-per-semester academic schedule for
the first two years at Duke, he played basketball and lacrosse and was
president of his social fraternity, Beta Theta Pi, and treasurer of the Pan-
Hellenic Council. His honors during his undergraduate career included election
to Omicron Delta Kappa and Pi Tau Sigma and service as vice president of the
Student Government Association. He became Duke’s first two-year basketball All
American and was a lacrosse All American. He later was selected for the Teague
award as the outstanding male athlete in the two Carolinas, and was elected to
Duke’s Athletic Hall of Fame and basketball Hall of Honor.

#### Distinguished Faculty & Staff Awards

The following Pratt faculty and staff were honored as 2013 award recipients:

###### **Roger Barr, ****Klein Family Distinguished Teaching Award**

The Distinguished Teaching Award is given each year to an outstanding educator
nominated by the engineering students and selected by a faculty committee.
These faculty inspire students to learn and apply, engage students in the
classroom and share their love of engineering.

###### **Stefano Curtarolo, ****Stansell Family Distinguished Research Award**

The Distinguished Research Award is given each year to an outstanding
researcher nominated by the department chairs and selected by a faculty
committee. These faculty inspire their colleagues, serve others, contribute to
the knowledge base and have a deep passion for their work.

###### **Lisa Huettel,** **Lois and John L. Imhoff** **Distinguished Teaching
Award**

The Distinguished Teaching Award is given each year to a member of the faculty
in recognition of superior dedication to undergraduate teaching nominated by
the engineering students and selected by a faculty committee.

###### **Charles Gersbach, ****Capers and Marion McDonald Award for Excellence
in Teaching and Research**

In annually recognizing the career achievements of one individual, this award
honors all of our engineering faculty, who, over the years, through excellence
in both teaching and research have challenged and nurtured our students and
strongly contributed to knowledge.

###### **LaTondra Murray, ****Capers and Marion McDonald Award for Excellence
in Mentoring and Advising**

In recognizing one individual each year, this award honors all members of our
engineering community, who, over the years, through excellence in mentoring
and advising have nurtured and guided students and colleagues, thereby helping
build a better future.

###### **Rebecca Dupre,** **Dean’s Award for Leadership in Program and
Operational Excellence**

Rebecca Dupre is the business manager for the Department of Civil and
Environmental Engineering. Established in 2013, this new award is given to a
faculty member or staff leader who excels in managing and enhancing programs
that impact the Pratt community. Considerations for the award include
operational excellence, responsiveness to program participants and continuous
improvement through the integration of new tools and process innovations.

**See more information on theannual awards and previous alumni honorees and
faculty & staff honorees**

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

