

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Farsiu Elected to AIMBE College of Fellows

April 1, 2020

Honor represents top two percent of medical and biological engineers

Sina Farsiu has been elected to the College of Fellows at the American
Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering (AIMBE). Farsiu, the Paul
Ruffin Scarborough Distinguished Associate Professor of Engineering, was cited
for “outstanding contributions to image-processing and biophotonics and their
applications to ophthalmology.”

With Farsiu’s election, Duke Biomedical Engineering is home to 26 AIMBE
Fellows, which represents the top 2 percent of accomplished and distinguished
medical and biological engineers responsible for innovation and discovery.
Members’ nominations are peer-reviewed by a selection committee and then voted
on by the entire College of Fellows.

Farsiu is the director of the Vision and Image Processing Laboratory in Duke
BME, where he investigates how to more rapidly and accurately diagnose ocular
and neurological diseases in adults and children. He also develops artificial
intelligence and machine learning algorithms to detect, segment and quantify
anatomical and pathological structures in medical images.

Due to health concerns, the formal induction ceremony and AIMBE Annual Meeting
scheduled for March 29-30, 2020 was cancelled. Using virtual procedures,
Farsiu was remotely inducted with 156 colleagues who make up the AIMBE College
of Fellows Class of 2020.

AIMBE is a nonprofit, honorific society that serves as the authoritative voice
and advocate for the value of medical and biological engineering to society.
AIMBE Fellows are among the most distinguished medical and biological
engineers including 3 Nobel Prize laureates, 18 Fellows having received the
Presidential Medal of Science and/or Technology and Innovation, and 173 also
inducted to the National Academy of Engineering, 84 inducted to the National
Academy of Medicine and 37 inducted to the National Academy of Sciences.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

