

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Farsiu Wins ARVO Foundation/Pfizer Ophthalmics Carl Camras Translational
Research Award

January 19, 2017

Professor Sina Farsiu has won the 2017 Association for Research in Vision and
Ophthalmology (ARVO) Foundation/Pfizer Ophthalmics Carl Camras Translational
Research Award.

Sina Farsiu, an associate professor at Duke University with appointments in
biomedical engineering, ophthalmology, electrical and computer engineering,
and computer science, has won the 2017 Association for Research in Vision and
Ophthalmology (ARVO) Foundation/Pfizer Ophthalmics Carl Camras Translational
Research Award.

Reserved for scientists under age 45, the award honors excellence in research
and fundamental scientific discoveries, concepts and novel technologies. The
discovery that each recipient is nominated for must also have led to, or have
promise of leading to, clinical applications. Farsiu will receive the award,
which includes a $12,000 honorarium, at the 2017 ARVO Annual Meeting held in
Baltimore, Maryland.

Farsiu’s research focuses on developing mathematical theory and computer
software that make imaging systems better, either by improving resolution or
how quickly pictures are snapped. His team also develops algorithms that can
autonomously search through the avalanche of data that modern imaging
technology produces to find new disease biomarkers or help clinicians make
better diagnoses.

Just a few applications of his work include finding novel imaging biomarkers
for age-related macular degeneration, probing the visual system for early
warning signs of Alzheimer’s disease, determining the best line of treatment
on a personalized, case-by-case basis for diabetic retinopathy, the leading
cause for blindness in working-age Americans, and developing cost effective
imaging systems for detecting visual problems in premature babies.

Translational scientists around the world have used Farsiu’s research in
diverse areas of ophthalmology and vision science. These innovations are in
the fields of image processing and machine learning, including groundbreaking
work in developing automated software for segmentation of anatomic and
pathologic features on optical coherence tomography images.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

