

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# High-Speed Holography of Cells Spots Physical Beacons of Disease

November 30, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

Measuring the variability of thickness within thousands of cells per minute
spots physical signs of cancer and carcinogenic exposure

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have engineered a holographic system
capable of imaging and analyzing tens of thousands of cells per minute to both
discover and recognize signs of disease.

In the proof-of-concept demonstration, the technique distinguished between
healthy samples and either cancerous or carcinogen-exposed, pre-cancerous
cells with nearly 100% accuracy, using just four basic cellular physical
parameters out of a holographic panel of 25. The results point toward a
promising screening or diagnostic technology that is simpler and cheaper to
use than current standard practices, making it a potential target for use in
remote, low-resource settings.

The research appears online on November 30 in the journal Frontiers in
Physics.

“The cells are flying through the scanner so fast that if the computer didn’t
slow them down on the screen, you wouldn’t even be able to see them,” said
Adam Wax, professor of biomedical engineering at Duke. “We were very excited
to be able to image this many cells at once because it points toward this
technology’s potential for point-of-care diagnostics.”

In a traditional cellular diagnostic process, cells obtained from tissue
scraping or fine needle biopsies are put on a slide and stained for a trained
physician to carefully magnify and inspect. But in some cases, the staining
process can damage the cells, and getting the slides to the eyes of trained
experts can take days if not weeks.

In the new holographic imaging approach, sample cells could be rinsed off of
the collection instrument into a biocompatible solution and inserted into a
microfluidic chip. The small device diverts the sample into a series of
parallel channels that pass beneath a line camera, kind of like a conveyor
belt passing newly manufactured items beneath an autonomous scanner for
inspection. When slowed down, the march of cell images is reminiscent of green
characters cascading down a computer screen in The Matrix.

As the cells fly by, the device automatically picks out whole cells and shines
a light through them. Based on the difference in time it takes for the light
to return from its journey and an unimpeded reference beam, the camera can
determine the topography of each cell and calculate features such as its shape
and height. While these may sound like simple measurements, when they are
combined with tens of thousands of data points and advanced deep learning
techniques, they can become beacons for spotting disease.

“It takes about 30 seconds to process a 1-milliliter sample that could contain
more than a half-million cells,” said Cindy Chen, a doctoral student working
in Wax’s lab and first author of the paper. “And once it’s finished, a
pathologist could pull up individual data for any of the cells that were
imaged for closer inspection.”

To demonstrate the potential of this approach, Wax and Chen used it to image a
combined 8500 cells from three different cell lines—healthy breast cells,
cancerous breast cells and pre-cancerous breast cells that had been exposed to
cadmium, a known potent carcinogen. While the technology captures 25 separate
physical characteristics of the cells, the researchers discovered that in this
case, only four were necessary for differentiating the three types.

Using a machine learning algorithm, the device was able to successfully
categorize each cell with 98% to 99% accuracy using just the 2D area it
occupies, the 3D space it takes up, its shape and its average height.

“This is a simple, label-free imaging technique that is getting data similar
to that of flow cytometry, which looks at cells one at a time and typically
requires fluorescent markers to be introduced,” said Chen. “The idea is that,
by having this wealth of quantitative data, you can separate the cells better
than if you were using one single metric.”

“We’re now trying to figure out how to put this technology at the point-of-
care to figure out if people have been exposed to these carcinogens in the
developing world, like maybe arsenic in the ground water,” added Wax. “For
example, you might brush some cells off of the top of someone’s mouth to see
if they’re being exposed to carcinogens in their drinking water.”

This research was supported by the National Institutes of Health
(1R21ES029791).

CITATION: “Automated Classiﬁcation of Breast Cancer Cells Using High-
Throughput Holographic Cytometry,” Cindy X. Chen, Han Sang Park, Hillel Price
and Adam Wax. Frontiers in Physics, Nov. 30, 2021. DOI:
10.3389/fphy.2021.759142

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

