

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Finding Free Bytes for Security

October 9, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

Miroslav Pajic is securing autonomous cars by double-checking data and
embedding security protocols into its computational downtime

From your watch to your refrigerator to your dog, it’s becoming increasingly
difficult to find much of anything in the modern world that does not have some
sort of sensor or microprocessor embedded into it. Even people, with medical
technology like pacemakers and neural stimulators, are becoming part of the
Internet of Things.

This level of digital interconnectedness isn’t just making life easier for
people using these futuristic devices, it’s also making life easier for
hackers. For every new subsystem integrated into an autonomous vehicle, for
example, there’s a new route to attack its central computing functions.

Miroslav Pajic, the Nortel Networks Assistant Professor of Electrical and
Computer Engineering at Duke University, has been working to secure such
systems through a project jointly funded by Intel and the National Science
Foundation (NSF). His goal is to secure the complex integrated systems that
interact with the physical world around us in a way that does not diminish
performance or increase costs.

Pajic’s approach takes advantage of a device’s interactions with its physical
environment to detect attacks and provide resiliency against them. Returning
to the example of driverless cars, a digital assailant could compromise the
GPS to take the vehicle off course. But by using additional sensors, Pajic and
his team showed that the car will be able to recognize the false data, and act
accordingly.

Adding complexity to these efforts of securing modern vehicles with varying
levels of autonomy, is the computational and communication limits of a car’s
electronics. Consumers don’t want to pay the added price for extra CPUs or
faster communication networks, nor do they want to sacrifice their car’s
performance to allow it to execute these security-related algorithms. The
second half of Pajic’s work, then, is to find ways to slip these processes in
to the car’s existing moments of computational and communication downtime.

“Most of the cost of a modern car is tied to its software,” said Pajic. “And
adding significant security overheard adds too much to an already taxed
system. Our goal is to find ways to utilize intermittently available open
slots to piece together sufficient security protocols, in order to provide
strong security guarantees without reducing the overall system performance.”

> “These types of security protocols aren’t just relegated to the road.
> They’re applicable to all kinds of networked devices, autonomous vehicles
> and infrastructure. And it’s essential that we stay ahead of bad actors no
> matter their intent or location.”

Theoretically, a car’s embedded processing system could simply encrypt every
single message sent between sensors, controllers and processors, negating the
need for double-checking data. But this again would take up too much
processing power. Another solution Pajic is pursuing is to encrypt only a
certain number of messages—every fifth one, for example—and then find space in
the existing programming to carry out the spaced-out encryptions and
decryptions.

Pajic has received national attention for both of these approaches. Besides
earning an Early Career Award from the NSF and a Young Investigator Award from
the ONR to pursue these topics, his initial work on embedding security control
tasks into existing computational downtime won the Best Paper Award at the
17th Association for Computing Machinery SIGBED International Conference on
Embedded Software (EMSOFT) held in the fall of 2017.

In the paper, Pajic and his students demonstrate that these security
approaches can work. As a convoy of toy cars outfitted with real automotive
industry sensors and controllers race along a treadmill in a line, the
communications between the middle car’s proximity sensors and speed controller
is attacked.

When working normally, the system automatically keeps the cars a certain
distance apart. When attacked, the controller believes the lead car is further
away than it is, causing the trailing car to speed up and run into it. Unless,
that is, Pajic’s software has been initiated, which thwarts the attack just
enough to keep the car’s behavior in line.

The research grant supporting the work culminated this summer with a
presentation on their progress to the funding agencies. Both the NSF and Intel
were impressed enough to extend Pajic’s funding for an additional two years,
beating out several other projects in the initial program.

“Attackers have shown the ability to cut an entire nation’s power for days and
wreak havoc on companies and government agencies,” said Pajic, referring to
several notable cyberattacks carried out against Ukraine in the past several
years. “These types of security protocols aren’t just relegated to the road.
They’re applicable to all kinds of networked devices, autonomous vehicles and
infrastructure. And it’s essential that we stay ahead of bad actors no matter
their intent or location.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

