

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Fixing Muscle and the Brain

October 31, 2019 | By Ken Kingery

Nenad Bursac and Tatiana Segura are engineering hydrogel microenvironments to
physically and chemically support the growth of skeletal muscle and brain
tissue

With the number of times the word “gel” comes up in the research of Nenad
Bursac and Tatiana Segura, one would be forgiven for thinking they might work
in the haircare or running shoe industries. Their gels, however, are aimed at
much more difficult tasks than holding hair styles or cushioning feet.

Bursac and Segura, both professors of biomedical engineering at Duke
University, are two of the leading researchers working to grow functional
tissues both inside and outside of the human body. While the gels being
engineered in their laboratories are initially more liquid than solid, they
promptly solidify to provide a crucial three-dimensional scaffolding for cells
to organize and grow. And by adding the perfect combination of growth factors,
enzymes, nutrients and supporting cells, their laboratories are successfully
“engineering” some of most challenging human tissues, including skeletal
muscle and brain matter.

In 2014, Bursac and his team were the first to grow human skeletal muscle that
contracts and responds just like native tissue to electrical pulses,
biochemical signals and pharmaceuticals. While this initial success required a
muscle biopsy to isolate and grow human “almost muscle cells” called
myoblasts, they soon demonstrated the ability to achieve similar results
starting from cellular scratch—human induced pluripotent stem cells.

The method took years to develop, with the researchers making educated guesses
and taking baby steps toward their goal. The difference-maker was their unique
cell culture conditions and 3-D matrix, which allows the cells to grow and
develop much faster and longer than the 2-D approaches that are more typically
used.

In the 2018 study, Bursac and his group showed that after two to four weeks of
3-D culture, muscle cells derived from induced pluripotent stem cells form
muscle fibers that contract and react to electrical and biochemical stimuli
mimicking neuronal inputs, just like native muscle tissue.

The pluripotent stem cell-derived muscle fibers also develop reservoirs of
“satellite-like cells” that are necessary for normal adult muscles to repair
damage and regenerate, while the muscles made using muscle biopsy had much
fewer of these cells. The stem cell method is also capable of growing many
more cells from a smaller starting batch than the biopsy method.

Both of the advantages point toward a possibility of using this new method for
regenerative therapies and for creating models of rare diseases for future
studies and individualized health care.

“The prospect of studying rare diseases is especially exciting for us,” says
Bursac. “When a child’s muscles are already withering away from something like
Duchenne muscular dystrophy, it would not be ethical to take muscle samples
from them and do further damage. But with this technique, we can just take a
small sample of non-muscle tissue, like skin or blood, revert the obtained
cells to a pluripotent state, and eventually grow an endless amount of
functioning muscle fibers to test.”

The technique also holds promise for being combined with genetic therapies.
Researchers could, in theory, fix genetic malfunctions in the induced
pluripotent stem cells derived from a patient and then grow small patches of
completely healthy muscle. While this could not heal or replace an entire
body’s worth of diseased muscle, it could be used in tandem with more widely
targeted genetic therapies or to target more localized muscle repair.

In Segura’s laboratory, researchers are focusing on repairing perhaps the most
stubborn organ in the human body—the brain.

The brain has a limited capacity for recovery after stroke and other diseases.
Unlike some other organs in the body, such as the liver or skin, the brain
does not regenerate new connections, blood vessels or new tissue structures.
Tissue that dies in the brain from stroke is absorbed, leaving a cavity,
devoid of blood vessels, neurons or axons, the thin nerve fibers that project
from neurons.

In a recent study conducted with mice, Segura sought to coax the healthy
tissue surrounding the cavity into healing the stroke injury. She engineered a
gel to inject into the stroke cavity that thickens to mimic the properties of
brain tissue, creating a scaffolding for new growth.

This artificial material creates an environment that helps local, native stem
cells do their best work to promote healing—providing the physical structure
as well as the biological cues that encourage cells to grow. For example, the
gel is infused with molecules that stimulate blood vessel growth and suppress
inflammation, since inflammation results in scars and impedes regrowth of
functional tissue.

After 16 weeks, the stroke cavities contained regenerated brain tissue,
including new neural networks— a result that had not been seen before. The
mice with new neurons also showed improved motor behavior, though the exact
mechanism wasn’t clear.

“We have something that is working, and hopefully we can now figure out the
mechanisms for that improvement, because that is what leads to new
engineering,” says Segura. “If you can discover which pathways are causing the
improvements, then there are molecules you can deliver to engage those
pathways more directly and hopefully lead to a therapy that will act faster
and more robustly.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

