

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Flutter Power

March 7, 2019

MEMS PhD candidate Dani Levin sees potential in generating energy from
vibrations

“Everyone is trying to get free energy—from the wind, from the waves, from the
sun,” said Dani Levin, a Duke MEMS PhD student in the lab of Professor Earl
Dowell.

> “Everyone is trying to get free energy—from the wind, from the waves, from
> the sun.”
>
> Dani Levin, MEMS PhD student

As an aerospace engineer who specializes in designing structures to avoid
destructive vibrations, it was only natural for Levin to approach the quest
for sustainable energy by applying what he knows about flutter and limit cycle
oscillations, or LCO.

Because of its potential to cause structural failure, flutter is nearly always
engineered out of structures. “Usually flutter is not desirable,” said Levin.
“But sometimes violent flutter can turn into moderate LCO, which will cause no
failure, and this can be useful.” Levin wanted to explore the potential of
harnessing the energy generated by flutter, and he took a six-month detour
from his dissertation work, with the support of his advisor.

Levin set up an experiment in the aeroelasticity lab’s wind tunnel, using a
thin aluminum plate and piezoelectric elements, which generate voltage in
response to mechanical stressors like flutter. He found that by increasing the
vibrations’ frequency and amplitude, creating more curvature in the
vibrational motion, using efficient piezoelectric elements and reducing air
speed, he could squeeze the most power from the motion of the plate—sometimes
increasing efficiency by more than 200 percent.

Are large-scale flutter farms in our future? Probably not, said Levin. “My
vision for this is, maybe you go on a long hike, on a cloudy day. You don’t
have any solar power to charge your phone. But you do have a folded generator
in your bag that you can take out, let it catch the breeze as you hike, and it
can charge your phone. You can go even further and combine solar and wind.
It’s scalable and useful. And,” he added jokingly, “it doesn’t involve scary
mathematics. We’re using something that is so simple and so basic—at least for
an aerospace engineer.”

Levin will present his project, titled “Improving Piezoelectric Energy
Harvesting from an Aeroelastic System,” at the International Forum on
Aeroelasticity and Structural Dynamics in Savannah, Georgia in June of 2019.

More News from MEMS

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

