

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Four Pratt Faculty Among "Most Highly Cited"

January 21, 2016

Four Pratt-affiliated faculty members made the cut for Thomson Reuter's
"Highly Cited Researchers 2015." They are David Smith and Ingrid Daubechies of
the electrical and computer engineering department and Heather Stapleton and
Mark Wiesner of the civil and environmental engineering department.

Four Pratt-affiliated faculty members made the cut for Thomson Reuter's
"Highly Cited Researchers 2015." They are David Smith and Ingrid Daubechies of
the electrical and computer engineering department and Heather Stapleton and
Mark Wiesner of the civil and environmental engineering department.

The list is published annually by Thomson Reuters and includes about 3,000
researchers, who earned the distinction by writing the greatest number of
reports officially designated by Essential Science Indicators as Highly Cited
Papers. This shows the exceptional impact of those on the list, as they are
among the top one percent most cited for their subject field and year of
publication.

**David Smith** , chair of the electrical and computer engineering department,
publishes papers on metamaterials—a class of materials that combines two or
more materials in unique, repetitive ways to give materials unnatural
properties. He has been at the forefront in developing numerical methods to
design and characterize these metamaterials, and conducted key experiments
that have illustrated their potential—including the first demonstration of a
metamaterial with negative refractive index in 2000, and the first
"invisibility cloak" in 2006.

**Ingrid Daubechies** , the James B. Duke Professor of Mathematics and
professor of electrical and computer engineering, is one of the foremost
mathematicians in the world, noted for developing mathematical constructs
called wavelets, which led to image compression standards now widely used in
formats such as .jpg2000s, and others. Her work has also made significant
contributions in the areas of signal processing, quantum mechanics, discrete
geometry and applied mathematics.

**Mark Wiesner** , chair of the civil and environmental engineering
department, focuses on membrane processes, nanostructured materials, transport
and fate of nanomaterials in the environment, colloidal and interfacial
processes, and environmental systems analysis. For example, in 2010 he helped
demonstrate that nanomaterials accumulate in living organisms and can become
more concentrated the further up the food chain they go, revealing the
potential impacts nanotechnology could have on the environment.

**Heather Stapleton** , the Dan and Bunny Gabel Associate Professor of
Environmental Ethics and Sustainable Environmental Management and associate
professor of civil and environmental engineering, tries to understand the
transformation and eventual fate of organic contaminants in aquatic systems
and in indoor environments. Her main focus has been on the bioaccumulation and
biotransformation of brominated flame retardants. Her current research
projects explore the routes of human exposure to flame retardant chemicals and
examine the ways these compounds are photodegraded and metabolized.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

