

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Four Questions With Grace Beason

September 22, 2022

Grace Beason is the event coordinator in the Dean’s Office. At the events
Grace creates, faculty, staff and students come together to build community
and strengthen relationships. Using her experience and training, she adds
essential elements that contribute to the success of meetings with our Board
of Visitors and alumni, community and industry partners, and donors

What did you do before you came to Pratt?

I came to Pratt in May 2022. For nearly 25 years before that, I worked in the
wedding, event and catering industries—including with Marcy Blum Associates
Inc. to plan celebrity weddings and events in New York City.

For the past 16 years, I owned my own event planning business, Grace Leisure
Events, in Durham and became best known for large-scale, complex weddings and
food festivals.

Tell us about the recent events you planned

Working with the Undergraduate Education team, we created a party for First-
Year students. The theme was “The 1980s.” Lots of bright colors and great
music. Everyone had so much fun! I think students got to know each other
better and relieved some of their first-week stress. With the Dean’s Office
staff, I helped plan the Years of Service celebration on Sept. 15. That event
is also a lot of fun, and an important annual recognition event.

What do you like to do when you're away from Duke?

I live in Durham with my husband, Mattie, a longtime Durham restauranteur, two
baseball-loving young sons (Court and Than), and our rescue dog, Pepi. I love
to be outdoors, travel, see live music, and art exhibits, and hang out at home
with my family.

Your work is focused on the Dean’s Office, but do you have resources for Pratt
faculty and staff?

I want to be an information resource for everyone at Pratt. If you’re planning
an event, I have ideas for vendors, venues, décor, and logistics. I’m happy to
share what I know to help make your event a success. I also ask my colleagues
to let me know if they’ve had success with an event and want to make a
recommendation. I love recommendations! I also appreciate feedback. Let me
know what you liked, or didn’t like. I really want to bring a fresh
perspective to Pratt events, while also honoring what has already worked well
in this environment.

********View and download more photos from thePratt '80s Welcome Party »****

More news from Duke Blueprint

## Related News

January 25, 2023

### Four Questions With Jonathan Owens

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

