

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Freedom and Evolution: Hierarchy in Nature, Society and Science

January 21, 2020

Adrian Bejan, the J.A. Jones Distinguished Professor of Mechanical
Engineering, has written a new book titled “Freedom and Evolution: Hierarchy
in Nature, Society and Science.” This is Bejan’s third book intended for a
general audience centered on his concept of the constructal law—the tendency
of all systems to evolve towards easier access to flow. Published by Springer
Nature, the book hit the shelves in January.

## Tell us what your new book is about.

As the title suggests, the book is primarily about freedom and evolution. The
book explores the meaning of these words, and also places these two concepts
firmly in the realm of physics, which is the most generally applicable
intellectual tool that we have in science.

## Can you elaborate?

Evolution is, very simply, the changes that occur in a discernible direction
in time. Freedom is the physical feature that enables an entity or system to
make these changes. So no freedom, no change. No evolution. No time. No
future. The remaining words in the title—hierarchy, nature, society and
science—are the meat of the book and are chosen to show that these two words,
freedom and evolution, in fact mean the same thing. Because without freedom
you don't have evolution, or for that matter, civilization.

## That’s quite a bold statement.

But it’s a true statement! Freedom allows evolution, which in turn forms
hierarchies. You can see this in nature where flows distribute themselves
through a few large currents that branch into many smaller streams. A river
delta, tree root system, or the capillaries in your muscular tissues, are
prime examples. Civilization is no different. These same hierarchies can be
seen in the evolution of urban infrastructure such as roads and water pipes,
the evolution of airplane design, and the distribution of wealth and power. It
is the basic tenet of the physics of evolution, which I coined as the
“constructal law” in 1996.

To a mind that constantly asks how we can do things better, it's important to
know how to spread something that needs to serve an entire area. The one-size-
fits-all model will never work. It is the opposite, the hierarchical flow
architecture, that does the job not only most easily, but most naturally. It
happens because nature has the tendency to flow—to configure itself to fill a
space over time more and more easily. That is the constructal law.

## Speaking of the constructal law, this is now your third book for general
audiences on the topic. How does this book differ from the previous two?

These three books show the evolution of an idea toward a simpler, more direct
and more memorable message. The first book, Design in Nature, was wholly
descriptive and meant for the widest audience possible. The second book, The
Physics of Life, was more personal, meaning that it was about you, the reader,
interested in living your own life. This third book is really to answer the
question: What is the essence? It puts all of these ideas into the simplest,
and thus most widely applicable, form.

## So walking away from this book, the reader should be able to see how
evolution is a basic tenet of physics and at work in everything around them?

Yes, most definitely. When I read news that suggests evolution is 100 percent
a biological phenomenon, I actually become amused. Working in an engineering
school, I see evolution galore every day in this very building. And I see it
in the news every day. Politics, city government or even the traffic map of
Durham, North Carolina is an evolutionary design.

Evolution, from my point of view, is in the mind and spirit of everyone, and
it means this—design change over time. Not random change, but change moving in
a discernible direction. Randomness, or hiccups as I call them, of course
happens along the way. But at the end of the day, there is a direction, and
frankly that is the good news that's worth teaching to those who wonder about
the future of anything.

So yes, again, this is actually the big idea that this new book outlines. One
develops a much better idea of what the future is going to be like. It's about
understanding the future of energy sustainability on Earth. The future of
political stability. The future of the globe itself.

## And that future is necessarily hierarchical?

In every way, shape and form. The non-uniform distribution of everything, not
just wealth, will happen naturally. That’s why helping your fellow man and
voluntary acts of altruism and philanthropy is a never-ending challenge, and
one that I completely agree is worth taking on. But at the same time, I grew
up under a communist regime and witnessed first-hand the impossibility of
instituting complete equality. The catastrophe that followed was natural
because of the unnatural effort to create a uniform society.

So in reading this book, stories of physics teach the impossibility of
achieving these types of systems. Except I use much simpler examples, such as
the stupidity of building a piping network with pipes all of the same size.
But in knowing the demarcation lines between the possible and the impossible,
one can create daring designs that are just a few steps from falling over the
cliff. And great benefits come to those who venture that close to this cliff.

## It sounds like there’s some good advice for planners and inventors in these
lessons.

Indeed, there’s an entire chapter about innovation. I talk about how each of
us is now a lot more than the naked ape. We are now a human-machine species
that is constantly trying to improve on itself. Which, by the way, is the
definition of evolution. Every time you choose a different pen, pair of shoes,
or new smartphone, you’re trying to better equip yourself for tomorrow. My
colleagues in biology call it niche construction for animals. And so for
humans, we’re constantly building our niche through new machines, city
infrastructures and social organizations.

All of these systems are very big and complex, but after reading the very
simple text of my book, you begin to see them in a new, single light. As you
have one ‘aha’ moment after the next, they begin to reinforce and build on top
of one another. It’s much like the design of a Russian doll. When you open
one, you find there are many more inside…and they’re all the same doll.

_Adrian Bejan is a world leading researcher in the field of thermodynamics,
having contributed numerous important and influential findings in addition to
his formulation of the physics law of evolutionary design. He has written 30
books on thermal sciences, has been awarded 18 honorary doctorates from
universities in 11 countries, and was awarded the Benjamin Franklin Medal in
2018._

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

