

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Finding Companies to Invest in Big Ideas

January 10, 2018 | By Deepti Agnihotri

From Grand Challenge Scholar to Forbes "30 Under 30": Q&A with Scott Martin
E'14

_After graduating through the Katsouleas NAE Grand Challenge Scholars Program,
Scott Martin was one of 14 Duke alumni recently named to the 2017 Forbes "30
under 30" list. Martin majored in mechanical engineering, minored in chemistry
and completed the energy and environment certificate. After graduating in
2014, Martin now works for 8 Rivers, a Durham-based technology
commercialization firm._

**Graduation Year:** 2014  
 **Degree(s) at Duke:** Bachelor's Degree  
 **Major/Program:** MEMS, Energy Certificate, NAE Grand Challenge Scholars
Program  
 **Career Highlights:** Principal and Engineer, 8 Rivers Capital

## What does your current job entail?

My job at 8 Rivers entails looking at big problems, particularly in dormant
fields that need change or innovation but are somewhat slow to attain that
change. We come up with ideas to solve these big problems, develop patents,
and then go out and find large corporations to invest in our ideas.

## What's an example of a project you've worked on recently?

One of the main companies we've spun out is called NET Power, which is a new
type of natural gas power plant that inherently captures all greenhouse gas
emissions at the same cost as power plants that do not capture any carbon
dioxide. We're building a pilot plant in Houston right now that I've been
working on for the last three and a half years that is starting to be
commissioned.

## How did you come up with the idea for this power plant in Houston? How does
it work?

The genesis of the idea was before my time [at 8 Rivers], but most carbon
capture mechanism designs to-date use post-combustion carbon capture. Burning
in air produces carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide (if it's an inefficient burn),
water and a ton of nitrogen. Water condenses out really easily, so the exhaust
then becomes nitrogen and carbon dioxide.

Most of the removal costs in post-combustion capture are in separating carbon
dioxide from nitrogen, and then compressing the carbon dioxide to put it into
a pipeline. There are lots of chemicals and processes that do this, but they
are very energetically intensive and lead to a 10-15 percent drop in
efficiency.

NET Power's solution is to capture carbon dioxide pre-combustion by separating
air into its constituent parts to get pure oxygen and use that to burn fuel.
So now, only water and carbon dioxide comprise the exhaust and no nitrogen
needs separating. This process hits the same efficiencies as natural gas
plants, but inherently captures all emissions.

## What was the process like in going from the drawing board to actually
building this power plant?

When I started working on the project in 2014, our team had just received
major funding to build the demonstration plant, which is one-tenth of the
scale of a full plant. It runs on natural gas, but the technology could be
applied to any carbon-based fuel like biomass or coal. I was one of the
process engineers that was tasked with figuring out how to take this
investment and build a power plant with it, and we are now almost at the proof
point of the project.

## How did Duke help get you ready for your current job?

Duke gives you enormous opportunities. One of the things I was a part of was
the NAE Grand Challenge Scholars Program. It was actually through the Grand
Challenge Scholars Program that I got a scholarship to attend a conference in
Boston, which is where I met the folks at 8 Rivers. I stayed in touch with
them and, a few months later, they received their funding and hired me after
graduation.

## What sorts of skills did the NAE Grand Challenge Scholars Program give you?

The foundational point of Grand Challenge Scholars, which I think is a very
"Duke" thing, is that students find ways to develop a project outside of the
silos of academics. Part of it is getting involved in many different parts of
the campus, which is something Duke engineering students excel at. They know
how to get across campus and use the resources available them. And if they
don't at first, Duke really teaches and motivates them to learn.

Duke students really excel when they're self-motivated, and Duke does a really
good job of supporting those types of students. If you're looking to get
involved, there's enormous diversity on campus in terms of academic interest
and background, and as an engineer you can use that to your advantage, which
is something that other engineers from purely technical schools don't really
get.

## What was your favorite part about Duke?

There is just such an array of interest and so many people are doing so many
incredible things on campus. Your access to knowledge and opportunity is
unparalleled. There's no other point in your life where you're going to have
that ease of access to so many brilliant people, and it's really humbling.
That's something I really miss about Duke.

## What advice would you have for people who want to enter your line of
profession?

It can be really difficult being a young person in the energy field, and I
think it's important to not get discouraged by the other (often older) people
in the room. I think one of the most important things that a young engineer
brings to the table, especially when companies are dealing with new ideas, is
that boundless optimism and motivation to make something work. A lot of
companies want that, and it's important to not lose sight of that and not get
discouraged.

These problems are really, really hard. People have been working on some of
them (like water for example) in some capacity for millennia, and the problems
just continue to get harder and more complex. The more optimism and hope we
have in the industry, and the more people are motivated to sit at the table
and bring their new ideas, I think the better things will get going forward.

It is easy especially when you are taking classes to think that rote
experience is all that engineering is. But engineering is ultimately about how
you take really difficult problems and distill it down to something human. How
do you take a really difficult problem, or science that seems meaningless, and
make it something that can have a purposeful solution. Equations and math are
part of that, but ultimately engineers are tasked with taking science and
making use of it. And often, making use of something means improving life for
the people around you. So don't get discouraged!

The other difficult thing about being an engineer is that sometimes you
develop ideas with knock-on consequences. It's easy to self-select ideas and
creativity because you can see where the next steps go. But that doesn't mean
something shouldn't be pursued because people will still learn a lot from your
missteps.

## Can you tell us about an experience where you faced a challenge you didn't
see coming and how you dealt with it?

I've found that one of the most difficult challenges is simply understanding.
You may think that we engineers speak this common language; we know math and
can make things happen with numbers alone. That's just not true. What happens
when someone doesn't speak the same language as you? Or they come from a
different culture or their business etiquette is different from yours? Now on
top of that, consider trying to teach an already complex problem using your
own culture and language. This project has been difficult by having to be able
to switch gears from one culture to another.

People say engineers aren't social, but how do people build the Golden Gate
Bridge or the SpaceX rocket? That involves the mobilization of thousands of
people – and when you consider the greater public, millions or more. You can't
say engineers don't know how to be social, don't know how to teach, or don't
know how to present, when they must communicate these really difficult issues.
Language and culture is something you have to take really seriously. The world
demands us to be global now. Find yourself a way to get out into the world
because this experience is so important.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

