

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Genetic Barcodes Can Ensure Authentic DNA Fingerprints

May 21, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

Researchers propose a way of ensuring that genetic samples taken in the field
for DNA fingerprinting arrive at the laboratory unaltered

Engineers at Duke University and the New York University’s Tandon School of
Engineering have demonstrated a method for ensuring that an increasingly
popular method of genetic identification called “DNA fingerprinting” remains
secure against inadvertent mistakes or malicious attacks in the field.

The technique relies on introducing genetic “barcodes” to DNA samples as they
are collected and securely sending information crucial to identifying these
barcodes to technicians in the laboratory. The system shows one way to
guarantee that a sample taken in the field, transported to a lab and processed
for genetic identification is genuine.

The results appear online on May 14 in the journal IEEE Transactions on
Information Forensics and Security.

“If you think about conventional encryption techniques, like security for a
smartphone, there’s usually a passcode that only one person knows,” said
Mohamed Ibrahim, a system-on-chip design engineer at Intel Corporation and
recent Duke electrical and computer engineering PhD graduate. “Our idea is to
inject non-harmful material into genetic samples immediately when they are
collected in the field that act as a similar password. This would ensure that
the samples are authentic when they reach the processing stage.”

DNA fingerprinting is a method of identifying a specific person, organism or
disease based on only a small amount of genetic material. While about 99.9
percent of the DNA between two unrelated humans is the same, that still leaves
around three million base pairs that are different. And within that
potentially identifying dataset, certain short segments of DNA sequences are
much more likely than others to vary in composition from person to person.

Rather than sequencing a person’s entire genome, which still costs more than
$1,000 a pop, scientists can target a handful of these short sequences for
identification. In DNA fingerprinting, a technique called polymerase chain
reaction (PCR) replicates the genetic sequences at these sites repeatedly so
that they can easily be read. Based on the specific combinations of nucleic
acids at these various sites, genetic samples can be matched to their sources.
While it may seem like data from hundreds of these sites would be needed to
make a definitive match, they vary so much from person to person that the
Federal Bureau of Investigations currently recommends that only 13 are
necessary.

As the popularity of this technique and the PCR technology underlying it
increases, multiple companies are in a race to simplify the process and create
cheaper solutions. And as these devices become smaller, more complex and more
automated, it may create more opportunities to attack the process. Recent
studies suggest that these opportunities raise unprecedented security
concerns, creating a whole new category of potential weaknesses that has been
dubbed “cyberbiosecurity threats.”

“Researchers have identified a diverse array of cyberbiosecurity threats over
the past few years,” said Krishnendu Chakrabarty, the John Cocke Distinguished
Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Duke. “Our main goal is to
become a part of the community trying to address these threats by focusing on
one of the most vulnerable time periods, which is before a sample even gets to
the lab.”

In their new paper, Chakrabarty, Ibrahim, Tung-Che Liang, a current doctoral
student in Chakrabarty’s laboratory, Ramesh Karri, professor of electrical and
computer engineering at NYU Tandon, and Kristin Scott, adjunct assistant
professor of molecular genetics and microbiology at Duke, demonstrate the
usefulness of a genetic barcode to ensure samples taken in the field are not
swapped or otherwise tampered with on their way to the laboratory.

Relying on the genetic PCR expertise of Scott and working out of her
laboratory, the researchers first added two short stretches of synthetic DNA
to genetic samples bound for DNA fingerprinting. Because they are synthetic,
they can be made in almost any combination of the four available DNA base
pairs imaginable. And at 280 and 190 base pairs each, the chances of correctly
guessing the genetic combination is vanishingly small.

“We analyzed the conditions an adversary needs to satisfy to undermine the
barcoding system,” said Karri, who is a co-founder and co-chair of the NYU
Center for Cyber Security. “These conditions are related to the physical
characteristics of the molecular barcode. By linking these conditions back to
how barcodes are generated and the expansiveness of the search space, we show
that the probability that an adversary can discover the barcode is negligibly
low.”

Meanwhile, the primers needed to amplify each barcode are sent securely to the
technicians in the laboratory. For a PCR machine to repeatedly copy a specific
segment of DNA, it first must know how that sequence starts and ends. Primers
provide that information, and without it, an attacker would have no chance of
amplifying the correct barcodes.

Once the technicians finish an initial PCR run with the samples and primers
provided, the two barcodes appear as peaks or lines in the resulting genetic
data, depending on the method being used to identify them. To make sure the
samples are authentic and not tampered with, the technicians must simply make
sure these two barcodes appear as expected.

“When the right primers are used to unlock a barcode, you should get a
positive result,” said Ibrahim. “If you don’t, then that means that the sample
is not genuine. Some sort of switching or alteration has occurred.”

While this system currently relies on information being transmitted securely
to the laboratory, the researchers say there are ways that the genetic
barcodes could be streamlined into the technology. For example, the barcodes
could be correlated in some way to the samples being sent, and technicians
could look up the correct primers to use from a database. With the proper
hardware, the idea could also conceivably be translated into the chips running
the DNA analysis themselves.

“This work is an excellent example of multiple disciplines coming together to
develop new solutions to existing real-world problems,” said Scott.

This research was supported by the Army Research Office (W911NF-17-1-0320) and
the National Science Foundation (CNS-183362).

CITATION: “Molecular Barcoding as a Defense against Benchtop Biochemical
Attacks on DNA Fingerprinting and Information Forensics,” Mohamed Ibrahim,
Tung-Che Liang, Kristin Scott, Krishnendu Chakrabarty, Ramesh Karri. IEEE
Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, May 14, 2020. DOI:
10.1109/TIFS.2020.2994742

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

