

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Genetic Editing for Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy

June 4, 2013 | by Richard Merritt

Duke scientists have developed a way to change the existing mutated gene
responsible for the disorder into a normally functioning gene

DURHAM, N.C. -- Using a novel genetic ‘editing’ technique, Duke University
biomedical engineers have been able to repair a defect responsible for one of
the most common inherited disorders, Duchenne muscular dystrophy, in cell
samples from Duchenne patients.

Instead of the common gene therapy approach of adding new genetic material to
“override” the faulty gene, the Duke scientists have developed a way to change
the existing mutated gene responsible for the disorder into a normally
functioning gene. The Duke researchers believe their approach could be safer
and more stable than current methods of gene therapy.

The researchers are now conducting further tests of this new approach in
animal models of the disease.

Duchenne muscular dystrophy is a genetic disease affecting one in 3,600
newborn males. The genetic mutation is found on the X chromosome, of which
males have only one copy. (Females, with two X chromosomes, presumably have at
least one good copy of the gene.)

Patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy cannot produce the protein known as
dystrophin, which is essential in maintaining the structural integrity of
muscle fibers. Over time, patients with the disorder suffer gradual muscle
deterioration, which leads to paralysis and eventual death, usually by age 25.

“Conventional genetic approaches to treating the disease involve adding normal
genes to compensate for the mutated genes,” said Charles Gersbach, assistant
professor of biomedical engineering at Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering and
Department of Orthopaedic Surgery and member of Duke’s Institute for Genome
Sciences and Policy. “However, this can cause other unforeseen problems, or
the beneficial effect does not always last very long.

“Our approach actually repairs the faulty gene, which is a lot simpler,” said
David Ousterout, the Duke biomedical engineering graduate student in the
Gersbach lab who led the work. “It finds the faulty gene, and fixes it so it
can start producing a functional protein again.”

The results of the Duke study were published online in Molecular Therapy, the
journal of the American Society for Gene and Cell Therapy. The project was
supported by the Hartwell Foundation, the March of Dimes Foundation, and
National Institutes of Health.

The Duke experiments, which were carried out in cell samples from Duchenne
muscular dystrophy patients, were made possible by using a new technology for
building synthetic proteins known as transcription activator-like effector
nucleases (TALENs), which are artificial enzymes that can be engineered to
bind to and modify almost any gene sequence.

These TALENs bind to the defective gene, and can correct the mutation to
create a normally functioning gene.

“There is currently no effective treatment for this disease,” Gersbach said.
“Patients usually are in a wheelchair by the age of ten and many die in their
late teens or early twenties.”

Duchenne muscular dystrophy has been extensively studied by scientists, and it
is believed that more than 60 percent of patients with this type of mutation
can be treated with this novel genetic approach.

“Previous studies indicate that restoring the production of dystrophin
proteins will be highly functional and alleviate disease symptoms when
expressed in skeletal muscle tissue,” said Ousterout.

Similar approaches could be helpful in treating other genetic diseases where a
few gene mutations are responsible, such as sickle cell disease, hemophilia,
or other muscular dystrophies, Gersbach said.

Other members of the team were Duke’s Pablo Perez-Pinera, Pratiksha Thakore,
Ami Kabadi, Matthew Brown, Xiaoxia Qin, and Olivier Fedrigo. Other
participants were Vincent Mouly, Universite Pierre at Marie Curie, Paris, and
Jacques Tremblay, Universite Laval, Quebec.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

