

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# The Genetic Codes That Create Optical Computers

February 10, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

FIP researchers are using self-assembling DNA to form the basic components for
optical computing

_From the newsletter of theFitzpatrick Institute for Photonics, Broadband_

Researchers at Duke University can use photons instead of electrons to store
data, drastically increasing the storage capacity of the optical analog of
Blu-Ray discs.

So what are your top 5,000 movies?

“That’s the kind of ridiculous thing we can do, but I don’t know how we’re
going to use it,” said Chris Dwyer, associate professor of electrical and
computer engineering and of computer science at Duke.

Like his Fitzpatrick Institute for Photonics colleague Jungsang Kim, Dwyer is
working to bring an entirely new type of computer hardware into our day-to-day
lives. But unlike Kim’s, his technology isn’t based on the quantum state of
individual atoms.

Optical computing has been around for decades, but the physical properties of
light have limited their use to large scales. Wave guides that interact with
and manipulate light have to be of the same order of magnitude in size. And
for photons, that means nothing can be much smaller than a micron, which is
huge compared to conventional silicon systems.

Dwyer, however, and others in his field have found a way around this
problem—excitons.

When individual molecules called chromophores interact with light, they
quantum-mechanically absorb some of its energy, which gets turned into an
exciton. And when that little nugget of energy moves from chromophore to
chromophore in specific patterns, it creates light-based computational
components.

“For my group, it’s about applying this kind of photoluminescence to building
memory systems, sensors and computational logic,” said Dwyer. “And we build
these components with self-assembling nanostructures using DNA.”

This approach has several benefits.

For one, Dwyer and his group can use DNA structures to piece together logic
gates just two nanometers wide. This leads to memory systems that are very
dense. And the way light propagates also means that the amount of energy
required to perform an operation is radically lower than a conventional
computer.

Or at least it could be, once Dwyer’s group gets all of the components talking
to one another. They can currently build logic gates and memory elements and
network them together, but they still have to figure out how to optimize these
devices so that they can compete with electrical silicon technologies.

“These devices blow silicon processors out of the water on paper, but getting
the real world in line with the theory is easier said than done,” said Dwyer.
“On the flip side, we can figure out how to use these devices just as they are
in spaces where conventional technologies can’t go.”

For example, being made out of DNA, these tiny computational networks are
biologically compatible. Perhaps scientists could put some computing power on
a diagnostic assay inside the body—a feat which would greatly reduce the costs
of such tests. Or in a future science fiction world, maybe scientists could
conduct computations inside the bloodstream itself.

Dwyer also notes the idea of an encryptable drug, which would have a
cryptographic algorithm run by a molecular-scale computer that would render it
ineffective if it wasn’t presented with the correct challenge or response.

“I spent a great deal of my career trying to simply replace silicon in
computing technology,” said Dwyer. “It probably took me the better part of six
years , or half my career in academics, to figure out that a much better use
of this technology is to bring computation to every niche of the physical
world where silicon can’t go. I think that’s a much better use of our
technology.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

