

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# George Konidaris: Building Smarter Robots

September 5, 2014

Robots that learn simple tasks and integrate them into more complex decision
making

George Konidaris, a specialist in artificial intelligence and computer
science, joined the electrical and computer engineering department in Duke
University’s Pratt School of Engineering on September 1, 2014. With a dual
appointment in the department of computer science, his research will focus on
reinforcement learning, mobile manipulation, intelligent robotics, and
effective learning and planning for control in unstructured environments.

One of the more amazing feats the human brain can accomplish is automating and
coordinating the thousands of minute decisions that allow us to go about our
day-to-day lives. We can catch a ball out the air or operate a car without
having to concentrate on the dozens of required individual muscles, movements,
and corrections.

Robots aren’t so lucky. To complete even the simplest tasks, they must go
through lengthy algorithms laced with alternative options that, no matter how
many are available, tend to break down in novel situations. Program a robotic
arm to open a door with a knob and it’s unlikely to also figure out one with a
push-button handle.

“The example I use often is asking a robot to make a cup of tea,” says
Konidaris. “Today’s robots are bogged down with lots of decisions every few
milliseconds about where their joints are or processing images. We’d rather
have them working on higher order decision making, like turning the stove on,
moving the kettle, and finding the milk and sugar.”

Konidaris began his career by earning an undergraduate degree in computer
science and computational and applied mathematics from the University of
Witwaterssand in Johannesburg, South Africa, which is also where he grew up.
He then completed a master’s degree in artificial intelligence from the
University of Edinburgh before moving to America to work on a doctoral degree
in computer science at the University of Massachusetts Amherst.

Konidaris completed his PhD in 2010 with a project that provides a good
example of the work he does. He created a robot that had to learn tasks like
pushing a button or pulling a lever even though it was only programmed with
small movements. It learned to complete a task through trial and error and
then analyzed which movements were important to completing the task, which it
remembered for future reference. Faced with a similar task, the robot was then
able to draw from its previous experience and figure out the correct series of
movements much more quickly in subsequent trials.

“The idea is to design robots that can learn simple tasks and integrate them
into higher decision-making,” said Konidaris. “I want to design robots that
can act intelligently in the world like humans do.”

After completing his thesis, Konidaris took up a position as a postdoctoral
researcher at the MIT Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory,
which is where he remained until joining the faculty at Duke. Konidaris says
he was attracted to the university after having met several faculty members at
various conferences. He looks forward to collaborating with them, as well as
with several other new faculty members who are beginning to build a critical
mass in robotics at Duke.

“I was attracted to Duke because everyone is friendly and naturally
collaborative. It’s just a very nice environment for research,” says
Konidaris. “And with Missy Cummings and Michail Zavlanos recently joining the
faculty, and with Kris Hauser now coming over from Indiana University, Duke is
poised to become a leader in important robotics research.”

Meet our new 2014-2015 faculty members

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

