

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Gersbach Named Allen Distinguished Investigator

June 15, 2017

$1.5 million research award will help develop epigenetic tools to explore
complex behaviors and diseases

Charles Gersbach, the Rooney Family Associate Professor of Biomedical
Engineering at Duke University, has been named an Allen Distinguished
Investigator by the Paul G. Allen Frontiers Group. The award comes with $1.5
million over three years to conduct pioneering research in epigenetics.

While the various cell types in the body have the same DNA, they come in
hundreds of different types and perform vastly different functions.
Epigenetics describes the chemical and structural modification of that DNA
that programs this diversity.

Imprecise epigenetic regulation, however, is the primary mechanism by which
cells malfunction in diseases including autoimmune, metabolic and neurological
disorders. It is also a big part of how cells respond to drugs and other
environmental cues.

Gersbach and his colleagues at Duke have developed several tools based on the
gene editing technology CRISPR for untangling this complex web of gene
regulation. They have demonstrated the ability to control gene expression by
writing epigenetic marks onto the genetic code and have used related
techniques to control cell type determination by targeting “master switches”
in the genome. More recently, they have developed high-throughput versions of
these technologies to map the gene regulatory function of the “dark matter of
the genome” that exists between genes.

With the new award, Gersbach and his colleagues plan to build on these proof-
of-principle results to take their research to the next level.

Over the next three years, they will develop a robust toolkit that can edit
epigenetic marks with precise spatial and temporal control. The overall goal
is establish a technology to program any arbitrary epigenetic state that can
then be applied to disease modeling, drug discovery and regenerative medicine.
They will also manipulate the epigenome of neurons in live animals as a method
to better understand the root causes of many complex behavioral functions and
pathological states, such as drug response, addiction, learning and memory.

“My collaborators and I are very excited to develop these important
technologies and apply them to the challenging task of understanding how
epigenetics determines cell function and ultimately behavior,” said Gersbach.
“We are also very appreciative of the Allen Frontiers Group for recognizing
the potential of this ambitious research plan and providing their generous
support.”

The Allen Distinguished Investigator program supports early-stage research
with the potential to reinvent entire fields. Allen Distinguished
Investigators are passionate thought leaders, explorers and innovators who
seek world-changing breakthroughs. With grants typically between $1 million
and $1.5 million each, the Frontiers Group provides these scientists with
support to produce new directions in their respective fields.

“Each of these awards is given to researchers with the bold ideas and new
perspectives we need to make the next big leap in bioscience,” says Tom
Skalak, Ph.D., Executive Director of The Paul G. Allen Frontiers Group.
“Epigenetics, aging and evolution are all fields with great impact on human
health and wellbeing, but that currently face significant gaps in knowledge.
With these awards, we hope to make strides toward the kind of breakthrough
insights that can change the direction of an entire area of research.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

