

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Getting Rid of Eye Drops for Glaucoma

July 28, 2014

Duke engineers and ophthalmologists are developing a long-lasting injection to
treat glaucoma

Imagine yourself at age 80, fumbling for the small vial of eye drops your
ophthalmologist prescribed for your glaucoma. It’s five in the afternoon, you
can’t remember whether you put them back in the bathroom or the bedside table
after your last application, and you worry that your shaking hands will once
again leave the drops on your cheeks instead of in your eyes. And even if
you’re successful, only a small amount of medication will actually reach its
intended target deep within the eye.

Jennifer West, a professor of biomedical engineering and mechanical
engineering and materials science in Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering, and
Molly Walsh, MD, an ophthalmologist and researcher with Duke Eye Center, want
to make life easier for the tens of millions of glaucoma sufferers worldwide.
Through collaborations with fellow Duke ophthalmologist Stuart McKinnon, MD,
PhD, the team has created a device known as the Retroject RJT1125 that
stabilizes the eyeball and allows a glaucoma drug to be injected into the
veins near the iris.

Walsh has been developing the RJT1125, which is the size of a half-dollar and
fits perfectly over the patient’s eye to stabilize it for an injection. The
target is the episcleral vein that provides direct access to an area called
Schlemm’s canal, which is where glaucoma medications need to be delivered.

Because blood in the vein is normally flowing away from the eye, the Retroject
puts gentle pressure on the vein, making it flow backward and inside the eye.
The entire process can take less than a minute and be done during a regular
check-up by an ophthalmologist.

“One of the issues, however, is that you don’t want patients to have to come
in too often to get these injections,” explained West. “Even though the
procedure is essentially painless, it’s still a trip into the doctor, which
can be difficult for many patients. So we are looking for ways to inject a
long-acting medication.”

West wants to figure out how to make the injection last for months. To do
this, she is turning to nanoparticles. The tiny spheres can be made to
recognize chemical signals unique to Schlemm’s canal and latch onto the walls
in only that location. Then, over time, the nanoparticles can slowly release
the medication that they have been pre-loaded with.

The end goal is to eliminate the need for daily eye drops.

Although the nanoparticles are years away from public use, the Retroject
device is on a fast track for testing in human clinical trials this month,
thanks in part to support from the Duke Translational Medicine Institute
(DTMI), whose mission is to speed up the translation of laboratory science
into clinical care. The project gained further momentum in 2013 from a
Duke/Coulter Translational Research Partnership grant, which supports
collaborative research projects involving biomedical engineering and clinical
medicine at Duke. The award provided financial support as well as advice and
direction on regulatory pathways and commercialization strategies.

Through the Coulter award, Duke provided West and Walsh with a project leader,
Kristi Viles, PhD, to help the researchers along the path toward success. This
service is offered through the Duke Translational Research Institute (DTRI).

“The infrastructure and guidance Kristi provides are immensely helpful,” Walsh
said. “This has pushed our technology forward in ways I could not have done
alone.”

Now, the team has received a second Coulter award, which will fund continued
investigation of the safety and efficacy of the RJT1125 and the nanoparticles.
The injection technique itself is already in the first human trial to show
that it can be safely placed on the eye and an injection can be safely
completed, while the anti-glaucoma nanoparticles are in animal trials. The
investigators will also work with the Duke Translational Research Institute to
apply for regulatory approvals from the FDA and prepare applications for
follow-on funding from the NIH Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR)
program.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

