

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Girls STEM Day @ Duke Fuels the STEM Pipeline

May 24, 2018 | By Ratna Swaminathan

More than 100 Triangle Women in STEM professionals showed more than 100 girls
and their parents that a career in STEM is within their grasp

Reality inspired possibility at Duke Engineering for a day, as more than 100
girls descended on campus to build robots, learn forensic techniques and edit
digital photographs taken with high-tech microscopes.

Over 100 professional women (and a few men) in the fields of science,
technology, engineering and math (STEM) from the Triangle region volunteered
their time and expertise to mentor over 100 girls drawn from throughout the
Triangle region for a day of interactive, engaging and fun STEM activities.
The event dubbed Girls STEM Day @ Duke took place on May 19 at the Fitzpatrick
Center at Duke University's Pratt School of Engineering.

The goal of Girls STEM Day @ Duke was to demystify these fields for young
women, and to create a pipeline to college and careers in STEM by sparking
and, more importantly, sustaining interest in STEM education for both the
girls and their parents.

Their MO was simple - lead by example. According to Lisa Jones, chief
executive officer at Girl Scouts, North Carolina, "By providing girls with
hands-on STEM education and the opportunity to speak with female STEM
professionals, we are inspiring them to become innovators and groundbreakers
in STEM fields."

"If you can't see it, it is hard to be it," said Sondra Rivers, a director in
the Global Markets Technology Division at Credit Suisse and steering committee
member of the Triangle Women in STEM (Tri WiSTEM), an initiative to make RTP
the destination for professional women in STEM.

Girls STEM Day @ Duke gave middle and high school girls and girl scouts an
opportunity to earn a STEM badge in forensic sciences, robotics or digital
photography. The activities were inspired by the addition of 23 STEM-related
badges by the Girls Scouts of the USA in 2017, and informed the activities led
by Holly Leddy, research and development engineer at Duke in charge of the
event's scientific component.

A little Lego robot scurrying along a grid on the floor was just the thing
that intrigued 14-year old Nahdia Benson of Raleigh to join the robotics badge
workshop. Passionate about making robots "battle each other," Nahdia is
encouraged by her mother, LaDonna Bonneville, a mechanical engineer, who
advises parents to start their daughters with a fun, extracurricular activity
in STEM and watch their enthusiasm grow. Accompanied by her team of IBM
volunteers, Victoria Thio, senior software engineer manager, explained, "The
girls had an opportunity to be a hardware engineer, a software engineer and a
test engineer."

A fictitious crime scene of "dog-napping" was created for the forensics badge
in which the girls gathered evidence to catch the culprit. A ransom note was
used to demonstrate ink chromatography, and a microscope helped them review
fingerprints, hair and dirt samples from suspects.

The digital photography workshop had the largest number of participants, who
learned to use photo-editing software to digitally edit photographs taken with
a cell phone, a light microscope and a scanning electron microscope in Duke's
Shared Materials Instrumentation Facility, which is part of the Research
Triangle Nanotechnology Network (RTNN).

In a parallel parents forum, female STEM professionals, high school college
counselors and university admissions counselors engaged parents and troop
leaders in interactive panel discussions. In these sessions, the panelists
shared their stories, related their career and educational experience, and
imparted information. They also highlighted the types of STEM-related careers
the girls could pursue and recommended coursework to prepare the students for
an advanced STEM education. The panels also focused on simplifying the
application process for college admissions and provided insight on what
colleges are looking for in prospective students.

The message to the girls is clear. "If you want high-paying jobs, you want to
be the boss, and you want to do something interesting with your life, then
study STEM topics and you can succeed. If I can do it, you can do it," said
Nan Jokerst, professor of electrical and computer engineering and associate
dean of strategic initiatives in the Duke Pratt School of Engineering.

Girls STEM Day @ Duke was the successful culmination of a collaborative effort
of Tri WiSTEM, Duke University's Pratt School of Engineering and Trinity
College of Arts and Sciences, North Carolina Coastal Pines Girl Scouts, IBM,
Credit Suisse's IT Women's Council and the RTNN (a partnership between Duke,
UNC-Chapel Hill and NC State.)

According to Jokerst, Girls STEM Day @ Duke was also a way to engage the Tri
WiSTEM members, and brought volunteers from 30 private and public
organizations in the Triangle. Erin Buckman from Credit Suisse, a former girl
scout, volunteered to give back to the organization, and Ritu Mathur, a PhD in
plant science and mother of two girls, volunteered to experience first hand
how such events are excellent ways for girls to get excited about STEM.

Another objective was to dispel feelings of isolation in girls who want to
pursue STEM subjects. "By getting the girls together at this event, they get
to see a hundred other girls like what they like, and they see an existence
proof of what they can become through our volunteer role models," said
Jokerst.

The organizers are keenly aware that women are underrepresented in STEM
fields. While women are 44 percent of the U.S. workforce, their share in STEM
jobs is just 25 percent. This job sector, they also recognize, is poised for
growth. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics predicts that STEM-related jobs
are projected to grow to 9 million between 2012 and 2022.

This is precisely the economic opportunity that the organizers are encouraging
women to seize. "STEM fields have the fastest growing and best-paid jobs,"
said Jokerst. Government statistics also show that professionals in STEM jobs
earn approximately 30 percent more than comparable professionals in non-STEM
occupations.

The partnership forged by the Triangle Women in STEM is aimed at recruiting,
engaging and advancing women in STEM in the Triangle by building a community
of women and a pipeline of girls aiming for STEM careers. By bringing together
the girls and the professionals, they are showing how possibility can become a
reality.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

