

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Glass Named Senior Associate Dean for Education & Learning Innovation at
Duke Engineering

June 10, 2019

Glass will work to advance the school’s educational mission and enhance the
student experience by providing coordinated oversight and strategic direction
for its broad suite of undergraduate and master’s programs

Jeffrey Glass, a professor of electrical and computer engineering at Duke
University’s Pratt School of Engineering, has been appointed as the school’s
first Senior Associate Dean for Education and Learning Innovation effective
July 1.

“With exciting new initiatives in areas such as undergraduate design,
expansive growth in our master’s programs, and our ambitious vision for
preparing Duke Engineering students to become creative, ethical and impactful
leaders in a fast-changing world, the time is right for a dedicated leader to
focus on charting our course in educational innovation for the years to come,”
said Ravi V. Bellamkonda, Vinik Dean of Engineering, in announcing the
appointment.

In his new role, Glass will work with faculty, staff and students to advance
the school’s educational mission and enhance the student experience by
providing coordinated oversight and strategic direction for its broad suite of
undergraduate and master’s programs.

Working closely with associate deans Linda Franzoni and Brad Fox as well as
the school’s department chairs and directors of undergraduate and master’s
studies, Glass will guide program operations, new academic program
development, and curricular and learning innovations at both the undergraduate
and master’s levels. He will also lead Duke Engineering’s growing initiatives
in distance and online education and non-degree programs such as certificates
and executive education, and provide guidance for co-curricular programs such
as the Smart Home, Learning Commons and First-Year Experience.

“I’m very excited to take on this new responsibility and participate in the
continued growth of Duke Engineering’s global reputation,” said Glass. “We
have incredibly innovative programs for our students at both the undergraduate
and master’s levels.”

Among his first priorities to be to listen to faculty, staff and students to
assess opportunities to refine current offerings or introduce new student-
centered activities to fill any gaps, Glass said. “I also will be looking to
understand how we can integrate our various activities across the school in
innovative ways to provide the best student experience possible. All of this
really comes down to facilitating and connecting the excellent work of our
faculty and staff.”

Glass joined the faculty at Duke University in 2003 after previous positions
as vice president of R&D for Kobe Steel USA Inc. and co-director of the
Institute for the Integration of Management and Engineering at Case Western
Reserve University. He is currently faculty director of Duke’s Master of
Engineering Management program, Hogg Family Director of Engineering Management
and Entrepreneurship and co-director of Duke’s Center for WaSH-AID (Water,
Sanitation, Hygiene and Infectious Disease).

“I’m delighted to welcome Jeff to the school’s leadership team as senior
associate dean,” said Bellamkonda. “Across his many responsibilities, he has
proven to be a genial, collaborative and effective leader with a deep
commitment to the success of students and colleagues at all levels. I know he
will bring great energy to our shared efforts to deliver outstanding
educational experiences that inspire and equip the next generation of
engineering leaders.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

