

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Good Timing

November 21, 2013

Duke-engineered technology optimizes Parkinson’s disease therapy—and launches
a new company

Deep brain stimulation (DBS) has improved the lives of thousands of people
with Parkinson’s disease (PD) since its 2002 FDA approval. By delivering
electrical currents to the basal ganglia, the region of the brain that
controls movement, the so-called “brain pacemaker” can relieve tremor,
rigidity and other motor symptoms that debilitate PD patients. DBS, which can
also treat epilepsy, essential tremor and obsessive-compulsive disorder, is
already used by 100,000 patients worldwide.

“The technology can have almost miraculous effects,” says Warren Grill, the
Addy Professor of Bioengineering at Duke—but it’s not perfect, or even fully
understood. For the past decade, Grill and his team have sought to learn more
about how DBS works and how it can be improved. Now, their transformational
technology is making DBS therapy for PD not only more effective, but safer and
less expensive.

## “Morse code for the brain”

The novel technology, Temporally Optimized Patterned Stimulation (TOPS™),
sprang from a new insight into how to combat one of the critical biological
problems in PD: as the disease causes dopamine-producing cells to die and
dopamine levels in the brain drop, neurons stop signaling in normal ways and
instead begin firing in lockstep with each other. Those abnormally synchronous
signals send faulty messages to the rest of the body, disrupting motor
activity.

DBS works by delivering rapid electrical pulses to the basal ganglia via
implanted electrodes connected to a pulse-generating battery. Those electrical
pulses somehow block or cancel out signals from the misfiring neurons, thereby
restoring normal motor activity.

Existing DBS batteries stimulate the basal ganglia at the rate of 130 to 200
regular pulses per second. Figuring out exactly what rate to use is tricky,
though—while it has to be high enough to control symptoms, if it’s too high
patients can suffer side effects including unwanted movements, disrupted
speech or cognitive problems, says Grill. Furthermore, those rapid pulses
quickly wear down the battery. Most patients need a replacement every three to
five years, requiring expensive surgery.

Over the years Grill and his team tried a number of approaches to improve the
technology. The team started by testing randomized electrical pulses, but
discovered that the more random the stimulation, the worse it worked. “That
was the stage of inspiration,” says Grill. “The findings told us, for the
first time, that the timing between the pulses matters—not just the rate.”

Pratt BME doctoral student David Brocker was tasked with using optimization in
a computer model of the basal ganglia to find the best pattern.

“There are an infinite number of possible patterns so we applied a method
called a genetic algorithm, which mimics biological evolution, and used time-
based patterns of stimulation as the evolving trait,” explains Brocker. “We
then combined the genetic algorithm with a computational model of DBS for PD
patients to develop an optimal pattern to test in humans.”

(Brocker says that process, which took about 18 months, would have taken much
longer without the use of the Duke Shared Cluster Resource, a group of central
processing units that enabled his team to parallelize the entire simulation
process. This allowed them to test many potential patterns in significantly
less time than it would have taken on desktop computers.)

Ultimately the team created TOPS. Unlike conventional generators that emit a
steady stream of pulses, TOPS pulse generators deliver intermittent patterns
of stimulation at about 45 pulses per second—each lasting only one-tenth of
one-one-thousandth of a second. Grill likens the resulting pattern to Morse
code.

A clinical experiment to evaluate the technology—conducted in collaboration
with Duke’s Dennis Turner, MD, and neurosurgeons at Emory University and Wake
Forest Baptist Medical Center—yielded promising results, published in the
January 2013 issue of _Experimental Neurology_.

The upshot: TOPS technology appears to make DBS more effective at relieving PD
symptoms and to greatly extend the life of neurostimulator batteries—resulting
in fewer battery-replacement procedures. This translates to fewer risks and
complications for patients and lower medical expenses overall. Another plus:
the pulse-generator battery—typically implanted above patients’ collarbones—is
about half the size of traditional batteries.

## From concept to commercial enterprise

As the therapeutic value of TOPS became clear, Grill and his team began
working with Duke’s Office of Licensing and Ventures (OLV) to translate the
innovation from the lab to a commercially available device for use in
patients.

“The OLV staff was very supportive,” Grill says. “They helped us protect the
underlying intellectual property and develop a licensing agreement.”

“Our work begins with the idea for an invention and carries through its
development, patenting and licensing to a company,” says Duke professor and
OLV managing director Barry Myers. “We monitor new companies to ensure that
the inventions behind them are meeting the needs of patients, research
sponsors, faculty members and the institution.”

The result was the development of the NDI Micropulse™, as well as the May 2013
launch of Deep Brain Innovations, LLC, a portfolio company of NDI Medical,
LLC, a firm that funds and develops promising neurodevice technologies. Grill
is NDI’s chief scientific officer.

NDI president Geoff Thrope says the most important thing about translating an
idea into a successful commercial enterprise is to understand and be guided by
the needs of the end users.

“Throughout the development process, as you talk with a wider range of people
and marketplace influencers, there are always things to learn,” he says. “It’s
critical to be open to new information and ideas, and then lock it in, move
ahead and formulate the product.”

The next step, say Grill and Thrope, will be to request FDA-sponsored clinical
trials for a TOPS-based device, which will take several years to complete. In
the meantime, they’ll continue investigating the best way to get TOPS
technology to patients safely, strategically and expeditiously.

"The beauty of this technology is that it will work not only for PD patients –
the most prevalent existing population – but also for anyone with a
neurological condition for which DBS has proven effective," Thrope says. "So
the opportunity to impact the treatment of these conditions in a more
efficient and elegant manner is extraordinary." _  
_

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

