

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Grill Team Wins Competitive Neuromod Prize

July 12, 2022 | Michaela Kane

Warren Grill and his collaborators developed a winning vision for their
neuromodulation therapy

Warren Grill, the Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School Distinguished Professor of
Biomedical Engineering at Duke University, and his collaborators are one of
eight teams to win the first phase of the prestigious Neuromod Prize
competition. Each team received a $100,000 prize and was selected to advance
to the second phase of the competition.

The Neuromod Prize is a competition supported by the National Institutes of
Health (NIH) Common Fund’s Stimulating Peripheral Activity to Relieve
Conditions (SPARC) program that aims to support the development of targeted
neuromodulation therapies. Neuromodulation involves regulating nervous system
activity for a specific therapeutic benefit. By strategically stimulating the
brain, spinal cord or peripheral nervous system, researchers have been able to
relieve pain, prevent seizures and even improve and restore organ function.

During the first phase of the competition, participants were invited to submit
neuromodulation concepts and development plans that can help treat different
diseases and improve human health.

Grill’s project, “Closed-Loop Bioelectronic Control of Bladder and Bowel
Function,” described how his team could restore bladder and bowel function by
electrically stimulating a specific spinal nerve. This therapeutic approach
could be used to treat multiple issues, ranging from more benign disorders
like overactive bladder and constipation to the complete loss of bladder and
bowel control following a spinal cord injury.

“The vision that we described is the culmination of over fifteen years of
research with important contributions from myriad team members,” said Grill.

For the next phase of the competition, the Grill team will submit a proof-of-
concept study showing the potential of their therapy. Phase 2 is expected to
begin later this year. If they are successful, the winners of this phase will
receive a portion of an up to $4 million prize pool, and they will be invited
to participate in the final phase of the competition.

“We are excited to continue our work and energized by the potential clinical
impact of our proposed solution,” said Grill.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

