

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Grill Named Edmund T. Pratt Jr. School Professor of Biomedical Engineering

June 24, 2016

Warren Grill has been named the Edmund T. Pratt Jr. School Professor of
Biomedical Engineering, effective July 1, 2016.

The Pratt School Professorship is designated for an individual who is
addressing one of the National Academy of Engineering’s Grand Challenges for
Engineering, and Grill’s research into understanding and controlling neural
function falls within the Grand Challenge of “Reverse-engineering the Brain.”

“Dr. Grill is one of our most outstanding faculty members,” said George
Truskey, interim dean of the Pratt School of Engineering. “I can’t think of
anyone more deserving of this distinguished professorship.”

“Dr. Grill’s scholarly and teaching activities exemplify those of individuals
that we seek to recognize and highlight on the faculty at a university like
Duke,” added Craig Henriquez, the James L. and Elizabeth M. Vincent Professor
of Biomedical Engineering and Director of Duke’s Center for Neuroengineering.
“He is an accomplished leader in his field and is enthusiastically engaged at
every level of the undergraduate, graduate and post-graduate education.”

Grill also holds appointments in the Department of Neurobiology, the
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, and the Department of
Surgery. He is also a member of the Duke Institute for Brain Sciences and the
Duke Initiative for Science & Society.

Grill has pursued quantitative studies to understand the neural mechanisms
underlying a spectrum of diseases from bladder dysfunction to Parkinson’s
disease to chronic pain, and then used this understanding to develop
innovative therapeutic approaches.

For example, Grill has developed prostheses to restore continence in persons
with spinal cord injury that impair bladder function. He has also developed
novel patterns of deep brain stimulation for treating Parkinson’s disease and
other brain diseases that affect motor control, potentially allowing for
smaller and longer lasting battery-powered implants.

Grill has received numerous awards including the Duke University
Scholar/Teacher of the Year Award in 2014 and the Outstanding Postdoc Mentor
Award from the Graduate School in 2013. In 2009, he received a Bass Chair in
recognition of the high quality of his teaching and research. He is on the
editorial board of several journals in his field and has chaired the
Neurotechnology Study Section at the National Institutes of Health.

In a clear recognition of his contributions to neuroengineering and the
potential to improve further patient outcomes, Grill recently received the
prestigious Javits Neuroscience Investigator Award from the National Institute
of Neurological Disorders and Stroke. He is a fellow of the Biomedical
Engineering Society and the American Institute of Biological and Medical
Engineering, and his work has led to the founding of two companies: NDI
Medical and Deep Brain Innovations.

“Quite simply, I think Warren is one of the leading biomedical engineers of
his era, and his work shows great promise for continuing to develop in this
path,” said William “Zev” Rymer, director of the Sensory Motor Performance
Program and director of Research Planning at the Rehabilitation Institute of
Chicago, and professor of physical medicine & rehabilitation, physiology, and
biomedical engineering at Northwestern University. “I expect he will
progressively become one of the leaders in the field of biomedical engineering
at large, and specifically in areas relating to electrical stimulation of
neural tissues.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

