

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Guglielmo Scovazzi Wins DOE Early Career Award

May 8, 2014

The award comes with a five-year grant of $750,000 to stimulate research
careers in the disciplines supported by the DOE Office of Science.

Guglielmo Scovazzi, an associate professor in both civil and environmental
engineering as well as mechanical engineering and materials science, is the
recipient of the 2014 U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Early Career Award, in
the Advanced Scientific Computing Research (ASCR) Program.

Through the DOE Early Career Research Program, the U.S. Department of Energy
supports the development of individual research programs of outstanding
scientists early in their careers. The award comes with a five-year grant of
$750,000 to stimulate research careers in the disciplines supported by the DOE
Office of Science.

Scovazzi’s research is in the field of computational fluid dynamics and
specializes in simulating the interaction of airflows with physical structures
in aerospace, petroleum, wind and nuclear engineering. Fluid/structure
interaction problems arise in many important modern technologies, including
wind turbine blades, high-speed impacting bodies and at the core of nuclear
reactors. With the help of his team at Duke, Scovazzi seeks to create new
algorithms to accurately and reliably simulate systems of very complex
geometrical shapes, which are still a major challenge in the computer-based
simulation sciences.

Modern computational methods decompose physical objects and airflows into
computational lattices (or grids) used for numerical solution and integration.
Complex geometries, however, often put physical structures and airflows at odd
angles to one another, making standard grid generation techniques impractical.
Scovazzi’s approach is to attack the problem by means of a new, more flexible,
class of immersed boundary and embedded discontinuity methods, in which fluid
and structural grids are allowed to overlap. This work will be carried out
while making connections with current approaches to simulation, such as finite
element, finite volume or finite difference methods, and also aiming at
implementation on future, massively parallel, exascale-capable computer
architectures.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

