

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Handheld Device Takes High-Resolution Images of Children's Retinas

August 1, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

Smallest, lightest handheld probe for optical coherence tomography provides
insight into children's retinas

Engineers and physicians at Duke University have developed a handheld device
capable of capturing images of a retina with cellular resolution. The new
probe will allow researchers to gather detailed structural information about
the eyes of infants and toddlers for the first time.

“Diagnostic tools that examine and image the retina have been well-designed
for adults, but are exceedingly difficult to use in infants and young children
who can’t hold the required position or focus for long enough periods of
time,” said Cynthia Toth, professor of ophthalmology and biomedical
engineering at Duke University. “Before now, it hasn’t been possible to
measure the impact of injury or diseases on their photoreceptors—the cells in
the eye in which light is first converted into nerve signals.”

The eye presents a unique opportunity for research and imaging—it is not
difficult to access, it’s relatively self-contained, improvements in function
are easily measured and there’s even a natural opening to peer inside. But it
is also delicate, with important structures buried millimeters below its
various surfaces, so a wide range of technologies are needed to study it.

Over the past three decades, one of the most popular of these has been optical
coherence tomography (OCT). By shining specific frequencies of light into the
eye’s tissues and comparing those reflections to identical but unimpeded light
waves, researchers can build 3D images several millimeters deep of the back of
the eye.

The equipment, however, has traditionally been bulky, meaning the patient must
sit still in front of the machine and remain focused on a particular point.
And the process takes tens of minutes—an eternity to most toddlers, as any
parent knows well.

While handheld devices based on OCT and other technologies have been developed
before, they are far from ideal. Some weigh several pounds, making holding
them still over a child’s eye tiresome and difficult, and none provide a high
enough resolution to see individual photoreceptors.

In a new paper, published online on August 1, 2016, in Nature Photonics,
researchers and ophthalmologists from Duke University present a new option.
Their handheld device is about the size of a pack of cigarettes, weighs no
more than a few slices of bread and is capable of gathering detailed
information about the retina’s cellular structure.

“This paper demonstrates the first time researchers have been able to directly
measure the density of photoreceptors called cones in infants,” said Joseph
Izatt, the Michael J. Fitzpatrick Professor of Engineering at Duke and a
pioneer of OCT technology. “As such, it opens the door to new research that
will be key in future diagnosis and care of hereditary diseases.”

Without the ability to gather this sort of information, there is little to no
data about how a child’s retina develops, as it matures by the age of 10. This
limits our knowledge of how diseases affect a child’s vision early in life and
makes diagnosis of these diseases more difficult.

In the paper, a collaborative research group led by Izatt, Sina Farsiu,
professor of ophthalmology and biomedical engineering at Duke, and Toth,
detail the developments that made their new handheld device possible.

A new type of smaller scanning mirror recently reached a point where it could
replace larger, older models. A new design using converging rather than
collimated light cut the telescoping length of the device by a third. Custom
lenses detailing curvature, thickness and glass type were custom designed by
first author Francesco LaRocca and specially fabricated. And a mechanical
design to hold and integrate the components was designed by Derek
Nankivil—who, with LaRocca, recently graduated with their PhDs from Duke-and
fabricated in a machine shop on Duke’s campus.

The new device was then given to clinicians for testing on adults, which
proved that it was capable of getting accurate photoreceptor density
information. It was also used for research imaging in children who were
already having an eye exam under anesthesia.

“But because children have never been imaged with these systems before,
there’s no gold standard that we can compare it to,” said LaRocca. “The
results do, however, match theories of how cones migrate as the eye matures.
The tests also showed different microscopic pathological structures that are
not normally possible to see with current lower-resolution clinical-grade
handheld systems.”

With the prototype being used by clinicians at Duke Health, the amount of
information being gained from children’s scans could eventually create a
database to give a much better picture of how the retina matures with age. The
group is already working on the next generation of the design after getting
feedback from clinicians on what can be improved.

“At that point, we know a lot of collaborators at different institutions who
would also like to get their hands on one of these,” said LaRocca.

This work was supported by the National Institutes of Health (R21-EY021321 and
R01-EY023039) and the Hartwell Foundation.

“In vivo cellular-resolution retinal imaging in infants and children using an
ultracompact handheld probe.” Francesco LaRocca, Derek Nankivil, Theodore
DuBose, Cynthia A. Toth, Sina Farsiu and Joseph A. Izatt. Nature Photonics,
2016. DOI: 10.1038/NPHOTON.2016.141

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

