

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# HARVEY Helps Move Bioprinted Organs Closer to Reality

May 2, 2019

Supercomputer code successfully models behavior of interwoven vasculature
created with new 3D printing technique

_Modified from a press release from Rice University_

With the help of a dash of turmeric and blueberry, bioengineers have developed
a technique for 3D printing complex, interwoven vascular networks that mimic
many of the movements and forces of those found in real organs.

The technique could help researchers understand how the flexing of entangled
pathways for blood, air, lymph and other vital fluids affect each systems’
function and move the field closer toward bioprinting entire organs.

To better understand the forces and stresses at work in the new networks, the
researchers turned to one of the world’s most sophisticated systems for
computationally modelling blood flow. Developed by Amanda Randles, the Alfred
Winborne and Victoria Stover Mordecai Assistant Professor of Biomedical
Sciences at Duke University, HARVEY is a supercomputer code capable of
simulating blood flow through the human vasculature down to the cellular
level.

Led by bioengineers Jordan Miller of Rice University and Kelly Stevens of the
University of Washington (UW), the research appears online on the cover of
Science on May 3. It includes a visually stunning proof-of-principle—a
hydrogel model of a lung-mimicking air sac in which airways deliver oxygen to
surrounding blood vessels.

"One of the biggest road blocks to generating functional tissue has been our
inability to print the complex vasculature that can supply nutrients to
densely populated tissues," said Miller, assistant professor of bioengineering
at Rice's Brown School of Engineering. "Our organs contain independent
vascular networks—like the airways and blood vessels of the lung or the bile
ducts and blood vessels in the liver. These interpenetrating networks are
physically and biochemically entangled, and the architecture itself is
intimately related to tissue function. Ours is the first bioprinting
technology that addresses the challenge of multivascularization in a direct
and comprehensive way."

The new open-source bioprinting technology is dubbed the "stereolithography
apparatus for tissue engineering," or SLATE. The system works by printing a
sequence of layers from a liquid pre-hydrogel solution that becomes a solid
when exposed to blue light.

A digital light processing projector shines light from below, displaying
sequential 2D slices of the structure at high resolution, with pixel sizes
ranging from 10-50 microns. With each layer solidified in turn, an overhead
arm raises the growing 3D gel just enough to expose liquid to the next image
from the projector.

One of the system’s challenges is making sure the blue light does not
penetrate past the current layer being hardened and interfere with previous
layers. The key insight by Miller and Bagrat Grigoryan, a Rice graduate
student and lead co-author of the study, was the addition of common food dyes
capable of absorbing blue light made from curcumin (from turmeric) and
anthocyanin (from blueberries). These photoabsorbers confine the
solidification to a very fine layer, allowing the system to produce soft,
water-based, biocompatible gels with intricate internal architectures in a
matter of minutes.

In one of the proof-of-principle demonstrations, the team built a lung-
mimicking structure where a central hub of airways expands as air is drawn
into it, which in turn pushes, stretches and stresses a network of surrounding
blood vessels. Tests found that red blood cells could take up oxygen as they
flowed through the blood vessels surrounding the "breathing" air sac in a
manner similar to the gas exchange that occurs in the lung's alveolar air
sacs.

The researchers were pleased to find that the 3D printed vessels could
withstand the stresses and strains placed on them by the test. But to make
sure they knew exactly what forces were at work, they turned to Randles to
computationally model the entire system.

Previous simulations using HARVEY had mapped 500 billion fluid points using a
supercomputer with 1.6 million cores (individual processors), marking the
first time blood flow had been effectively modeled at the cellular level. But
to model the 3D-printed structure in this study, HARVEY had to be updated to
include a challenging variable—soft, pliable walls.

“The geometries being created by the Miller lab are incredibly complex and
parallel computing was required to capture the associated airway shape changes
that were observed in the laboratory,” said Randles. “To model these
accurately, we had to introduce a fluid-structure-interaction model. Moving
from rigid, unmoving boundaries to dynamic walls that stretch with the
changing flows was a difficult challenge tackled by John Gounley, who was a
postdoctoral fellow in my lab at the time.“

When the updates were complete and the code was run, everyone involved was
excited to find that the HARVEY code was consistent with the measurements
taken from the experiment. This gives researchers hope that the simulations
could eventually be used to help design more complex systems in the future.

"Tissue engineering has struggled with this for a generation," Stevens said.
"With this work we can now better ask, 'If we can print tissues that look and
now even breathe more like the healthy tissues in our bodies, will they also
then functionally behave more like those tissues?' This is an important
question, because how well a bioprinted tissue functions will affect how
successful it will be as a therapy."

"With the addition of multivascular and intravascular structure, we're
introducing an extensive set of design freedoms for engineering living
tissue," Miller said. "We now have the freedom to build many of the intricate
structures found in the body. We are only at the beginning of our exploration
of the architectures found in the human body. We still have so much more to
learn.”

The work was supported by the Robert J. Kleberg Jr. and Helen C. Kleberg
Foundation, the John H. Tietze Foundation, the National Science Foundation
(1728239, 1450681 and 1250104), the National Institutes of Health
(F31HL134295, DP2HL137188, T32EB001650, T32GM095421 and DP5OD019876) and the
Gulf Coast Consortia.

“Multivascular networks and functional intravascular topologies within
biocompatible hydrogels.” Bagrat Grigoryan, Samantha J. Paulsen, Daniel C.
Corbett, Daniel W. Sazer, Chelsea L. Fortin, Alexander J. Zaita, Paul T.
Greenfield, Nicholas J. Calafat, John P. Gounley, Anderson H. Ta, Fredrik
Johansson, Amanda Randles, Jessica E. Rosenkrantz, Jesse D. Louis-Rosenberg,
Peter A. Galie, Kelly R. Stevens, Jordan S. Miller. Science, 2019. DOI:
10.1126/science.aav9750

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

