

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Hoffman Wins National Science Foundation Early CAREER Award

January 28, 2015

Hoffman is a pioneer in the nascent field of mechanobiology.

Brenton Hoffman, assistant professor of biomedical engineering at Duke
University, has been awarded a National Science Foundation Early CAREER Award.
The award supports outstanding young faculty members in their efforts to build
a successful research enterprise and comes with a five-year, $500,000 grant.

Hoffman is a pioneer in the nascent field of mechanobiology. Traditional
medicine has long focused on how cells communicate within the body through
chemical signals and how to treat diseases by modifying those signals. Cells
also communicate and respond to physical forces, however, and this side of the
biological coin has long been overlooked.

“We want to start pulling apart how the chemical and mechanical aspects of
biology talk to and understand one another,” said Hoffman.

To help literally shed light on this question, Hoffman’s laboratory has
developed biological protein sensors that emit different colors of light
depending on how much force is being applied to them. Each cell is connected
to the environment around it through protein complexes called focal adhesions.
By understanding how cells react to different stresses and strains applied to
these structures, Hoffman hopes to learn how cells communicate and react
through mechanical forces.

With the support of the new grant, Hoffman’s laboratory will control
mechanical variables of a cell’s surrounding environment—such as its shape and
stiffness—to determine how cells react. He will also use genetic engineering
to modify the cells’ physical characteristics to see what roles they may play
in human health and disease.

Hoffman’s grant also supports public outreach, for which he is teaming up with
Shodor—a national resource for computational science education. Shodor teaches
local teachers and students how to code and create Java applets to promote
science education. Hoffman wants to create educational tools to show how
mechanobiology—and many other developing fields—can bridge traditional silos
of education.

“Historically, students have been taught physics, biology, chemistry and math
separately and haven’t learned how they’re all connected,” said Hoffman. “I
want to build resources to facilitate an integrative education, because
they’re really all just part of one big world.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

