

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Hope Floats

April 11, 2018

Student teams design, build and race concrete canoes at the 2018 ASCE
Carolinas Conference

At the sandy edge of Raleigh’s Lake Crabtree, a pack of purple-clad Clemson
students splashed through the chilly water toward their team’s canoe, cheering
and clapping as they helped their exhausted-looking teammates come ashore. A
few yards away, members of the University of Georgia team rolled up their
pants legs and heaved their own weighty canoe onto their shoulders, determined
to paddle harder and faster than their competitors.

It was the Concrete Canoe race, part of the American Society of Civil
Engineers (ASCE) Carolinas Conference hosted this year by the organization’s
Duke student chapter. The conference includes other events that challenge the
teams’ engineering know-how and ingenuity: steel bridge construction,
surveying, hydraulics, and some “wild card” events chosen by the hosting team
(concrete cornhole was one selected by Duke in 2018).

With more than 300 students from 10 schools participating this year, the Duke
chapter’s hosting responsibilities were numerous. Conference Chair Karyn
Saunders, a senior majoring in environmental engineering, took point on
planning and logistics. Junior civil engineering student Courtney Montgomery
handled finances and fundraising. Senior Chris Northrup, also a civil
engineering student, organized the competitions and recruited local
professional engineers to serve as judges, and helmed Duke’s concrete canoe
team.

> "The most rewarding part was seeing all the visiting students having fun and
> genuinely enjoying being part of the events we were able to put on." —Karyn
> Saunders EnvE '18

The concrete canoe participants prepare for each conference for an entire
year. Each finished vessel represents a significant investment of time and
energy expended in experimentation, design and build.

The host team was missing from the excited commotion on the shore, though.

“It was a rough day on the lake today,” admitted Northrup, looking down at the
two separate halves of the team’s boat. The canoe cracked in transit to the
lake; though the team was successful in patching it initially, the boat began
to disintegrate after its initial submersion test.

Joe Nadeau, a professor of the practice of civil engineering at Duke, was this
year’s conference faculty advisor. He said that the competition teaches the
students valuable real-world engineering skills, regardless of the outcome of
the competition.

“They learn how to experiment,” he said. “The rules are not the same every
year. The concrete mixtures are different, so they have to figure out how to
work with reinforcements, aggregate sizes, and where to place the mixture on
the canoe form.”

Northrup confirmed that his team spent an entire semester just determining
what concrete mixture to use. “We came up with twelve individual test mixes
before determining that this one was ultimately the best to go with,” said
Northrup. He pointed out some of the components of the boat that were visible
in the cross-section: the mixture itself, flecked with lightweight aggregate
of expanded glass, and a fiberglass grid as a reinforcement layer.

“There was a different material that we had to introduce at the very last
minute that we thought was identical, but it turned out it wasn’t,” noted
Northrup. “The big thing that we learned is that you have to maintain
consistency throughout.”

The race itself isn’t the only factor in the Canoe Competition. In fact, it
counts for only 20 percent of the entire score. Teams are also judges on the
boat’s aesthetics, and they must give a presentation and present a technical
report and display a cross-section of the boat as well.

This year, UNC Charlotte took first prize in every category of the Concrete
Canoe Competition, while Duke placed first in Quiz Bowl, second in Concrete
Cornhole and Surveying, and third in tee shirt design— but the Duke chapter's
biggest win was the overwhelmingly positive feedback from the conference
attendees. "The most rewarding part was seeing all the visiting students
having fun and genuinely enjoying being part of the events we were able to put
on," said Saunders.

_Learn more about Duke’s chapter of ASCE athttps://dukeasce.wordpress.com._

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

