

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Here’s How Seniors Do Energy

May 7, 2019

Mechanical engineers tackle projects with real impact

### **Catching the Breeze**

When classmates see senior mechanical engineering student Meredith Short hand-
stitching scraps of fabric around a small wire frame, they never guess that
she’s working on a renewable energy project.

“They think I’m doing arts and crafts,” said Short with a laugh.

In fact, Short is finishing Duke’s Certificate in Energy and Environment
through participation in a Bass Connections team. Under the guidance of MEMS
faculty member Josiah Knight and School of the Environment faculty member
Emily Klein, the team is aiming to develop temporary energy solutions for
communities whose energy infrastructures have been critically damaged by
hurricanes.

“My team was pretty concerned with how hurricanes devastate energy systems,”
said Uriel Salazar, another senior mechanical engineering student working on
the team. “In Puerto Rico, some people still don’t have power a year later.
You have companies coming in and putting up wind turbines—and that’s great,
but it’s expensive. Steel turbines are heavy, and you have to put a lot of
energy into them just to get them moving. So we came at it from that angle—how
can we make energy accessible?”

Inspiration came during tenting season at Duke. During a particularly blustery
period, high winds caught some of the shelters, sending them sailing. Tent
poles and scraps of fabric were strewn far and wide. Short gathered some of
the materials to see if, on a small scale, their wind-catching properties
could be used to generate power. As the gear manager at Duke Outdoors, she
already knew how to repair tents—now she was challenged with repurposing them.

The team is working to create a rotary kite, ten feet in diameter, that is
tethered to a generator on the ground. The motion of the kite’s spinning vanes
will power the generator, which in turn might keep small appliances like
laptops, phones and mini-fridges running during a sustained power outage.

> The motion of the kite’s spinning vanes will power the generator, which in
> turn might keep small appliances like laptops, phones and mini-fridges
> running during a sustained power outage.

The very thing that makes coastal areas vulnerable—proximity to the ocean—is
what makes their team’s wind energy kite viable, said Salazar. At the shore,
wind currents at elevations of 100 feet or higher remain relatively
consistent. When the kite reaches that height, it can theoretically generate a
small amount of power with little further effort from its operator. After
initial small-scale tests in the school’s wind tunnel, Short calculated the
energy generation potential of the full-sized kite to be around 580 watts of
power in 22 mph winds.

When they scale up to the full-size prototype, said Short, they plan to use
reclaimed tent poles in its frame.

“The whole idea is for the structure to bend collapsible,” said Short. “We
want them to be easy to operate—as easy as setting up as a tent.”

### **Taking Out the Trash**

Salazar, an energy engineering minor, is completing not one but _two_ senior
projects—his second is supervised by MEMS faculty member W. Neal Simmons.
Simmons is a principal of Cube Hydro Partners, which owns, operates and
refurbishes hydropower plants for higher efficiency and performance. At Cube’s
Lake Lynn facility, a low-functioning trash rake has been causing engineers
headaches.

Senior mechanical engineering student Laura Perez—also an energy engineering
minor—explained that the rake is designed to gather waterlogged debris from
the bottom of the lake, where it can accumulate and block the flow of water
feeding the turbines.

“The rake is a hydraulic sled with a claw, controlled by a cable,” said Perez.
“Once the sled hits the debris, the cable will slacken and signal that there’s
trash below, and the claw will try to scoop it up. But it isn’t effective. It
will maybe grab a twig, but not the bulk of the trash.”

Perez said the team’s approach was to analyze what the facility already had,
and make simple changes that were easily implemented. “The big problem was
that the rake’s teeth didn’t extend downward far enough, she said. “Bigger
teeth weren’t an option because they’re installing new gates that would make
contact with them. Instead, we designed a pivot attachment that causes the top
part of the rake to jut out, so the teeth can extend farther.”

Their plans are making their way to the machine shop, and they hope the new
and improved trash rake will be installed in the near future.

“This project has impact,” said Salazar. “If we can fix this problem, that’s
like powering a thousand homes.”

Learn more about the Energy minor and certificate program

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

