

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Engineering Ph.D. Graduate Receives Dissertation Award

December 6, 2018

Mohamed S. Ibrahim has received the 2018 Council of Graduate Schools
(CGS)/ProQuest Distinguished Dissertation Award in Mathematics, Physical
Sciences, and Engineering

_From the Duke Graduate School_

Mohamed S. Ibrahim, a recent Ph.D. graduate in electrical and computer
engineering, has received the 2018 Council of Graduate Schools (CGS)/ProQuest
Distinguished Dissertation Award in Mathematics, Physical Sciences, and
Engineering.

The award recognizes individuals who have completed dissertations that make an
unusually significant contribution to the discipline. Two awards are given
annually in two different broad areas. Individuals must be nominated for the
award by a CGS member institution.

In addition to his $2,000 prize, Ibrahim also received an invitation to the
awards luncheon at the CGS Annual Meeting in Washington, D.C., on December 6,
where he presented to more than 600 attendees.

After earning a bachelor's and a master's degree in computer and systems
engineering from Ain Shams University in Cairo, Egypt, Ibrahim came to Duke to
pursue his Ph.D. in the Pratt School of Engineering. He received his doctorate
in summer 2018.

His dissertation is titled "Optimization of Trustworthy Biomolecular
Quantitative Analysis Using Cyber-Physical Microfluidic Platforms." It
presented novel algorithms and design methods for efficiently and reliably
miniaturizing biomolecular analysis using microfluidic biochips.

Biochips are microsystems for clinic diagnostics, DNA sequencing, and drug-
discovery applications. Ibrahim said that while biochips are revolutionizing
biochemical analysis procedures, their adoption in molecular biology has been
slow due to certain drawbacks in biochip design techniques. His dissertation
tackled some of those issues.

"The results presented in this thesis open up new research directions by
bridging the gap between microfluidic systems and molecular biology protocols,
and enabling a new level of synergy between molecular biology, computing, and
electrical engineering," Ibrahim said.

Krishnendu Chakrabarty, Ibrahim's faculty adviser, said the dissertation
provides a much-needed bridge between different research communities, such as
electronic design automation, biochips and microfluidics, microbiology, and
hardware security.

"It envisions and paves the way for an automated design flow for microfluidic
biochips, in the same way that design automation revolutionized integrated
circuit design in the 80s and 90s," said Chakrabarty, the William H. Younger
Distinguished Professor and Chair of the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering.

"Mohamed's research acumen and aptitude for interdisciplinary collaborations
are truly remarkable. During the course of his Ph.D. thesis research, he
taught me as much as I mentored him, and we moved ahead together with
unbridled excitement in this uncharted territory."

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

