

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Identifying Exposure Risks from Common Household Chemicals in Durham Homes

November 17, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

$1 million Durham study to examine exposure from chemicals in building
materials and consumer products and evaluate mitigation strategies to reduce
exposures during pregnancy

Researchers from Duke University are partnering with community organizations
in Durham to find ways of measuring chemical exposures from everyday household
materials such as flooring, furniture and paint.

Through a $1 million grant from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD), the project aims to develop methods for accurately
measuring such exposures, determining the types of building materials and
household products associated with these exposures, and mitigating their
potential hazards through daily robotic vacuuming.

“The novel aspect of this project is the goal of tracking and sampling a wide
range of contaminants in the home,” said Heileen Hsu-Kim, professor of civil
and environmental engineering and environmental sciences and policy at Duke.
“While previous studies might have focused solely on lead or organic
chemicals, we’re taking aim at many hazardous metals and chemicals all at
once.”

Leading the project along with Hsu-Kim are Duke faculty members Heather
Stapleton, the Ronie-Richele Garcia-Johnson Distinguished Professor of
Environmental Health, and Kate Hoffman, assistant research professor of
environmental science and policy.

It’s no secret that household building materials can contain harmful
contaminants. Lead paint was once commonly used in homes, but was discontinued
in the 1970s after it was linked to children’s exposure and neurotoxic
effects. More recently, commonly used fire retardants applied to furniture,
insulation and electronics have been shown to pose potential health risks,
particularly for children who have higher levels of exposure because they
spend more time on the floor in contact with dust and put their hands in their
mouths more frequently than adults.

Pinpointing which specific chemicals at what specific levels are cause for
alarm is difficult due to the complex mixtures that result from a wide variety
of sources. Measuring exposures to even a single environmental chemical can be
tricky, let alone a potpourri unique to each household.

“There are some environmental contaminants found in homes that we already know
are bad for children's health, like lead,” Hoffman said. “In this project, we
are using different tools to identify mothers with higher levels of exposure,
which provides an opportunity to intervene early.”

To address this challenge, the researchers are using a modified silicone
wristband. Silicone is often used to absorb and detect many organic compounds
that can be harmful to human health. The modifications will allow the
wristbands to also detect airborne dust particles that contain metals and
other chemicals.

During the study, participants will wear these wristbands for about a week
while experts conduct a survey of their homes to identify potential sources of
chemical exposure. By comparing the chemical levels on wristbands to the home
survey, the researchers hope to uncover new insights into which everyday
household items and materials should be more heavily scrutinized. Afterward,
some households will receive regular automated cleanings from a robotic vacuum
cleaner to investigate how this simple intervention can help reduce exposures.

“Vacuuming regularly seems like such an obvious way to reduce these types of
exposures, but it’s very difficult to prove in practice,” Hsu-Kim said. “The
challenge is with knowing for sure just how often and thoroughly people are
vacuuming. But with today’s autonomous robotic vacuums, it’s much easier to
know for sure exactly when and where the vacuuming has been done.”

The team is partnering with Duke’s Children’s Health Discovery Initiative
(CHDI) and Durham’s Partnership Effort for the Advancement of Children’s
Health (PEACH) program to recruit 100 local households for the study.
Participants will be drawn from Project HOPE 1000, a program supported by CHDI
that follows children from pregnancy through their first 1,000 days of life to
identify factors that contribute to poor birth outcomes.

The project is being funded through the HUD’s Office of Lead Hazard Control
and Healthy Homes (OLHCHH), which recently awarded $15.7 million in grants
aimed at identifying and improving methods for detecting and controlling lead
and other housing-related health and safety hazards. Providing funds for these
studies and demonstrations is extremely important for developing knowledge
that helps to create and sustain new and existing housing that supports the
health of residents, especially populations at higher risk of being affected
by home health hazards, such as young children and seniors.

“We’re hoping to understand how chemical treatments in building materials and
chemical emissions from products in our home contribute to human exposure and
health risks,” said Stapleton, who has been involved in Project HOPE 1000 with
Hoffman for several years. “This may help us identify products and materials
that are primary sources of human exposure and inform strategies for
mitigation, like replacing products or encouraging industry to use different
chemicals in their design.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

