

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# IIT Gandhinagar and Duke University Forge Partnership

January 13, 2016

Originally posted on Duke Global

_For more insights on the IIT Gandhinagar/Duke partnership,visit this post on
Duke's research blog penned by Laura Brinn of Duke Global Communications, who
was also on the trip, as well as her post on the next-generation toilet
designed by RTI International and Duke to help stop global sanitation
problems._

In January 2016, a contingent from Duke University visited the Indian
Institute of Technology at Gandhinagar (IITGN) for a week of partnership and
capacity building events. The partnership is a result of a Joint Declaration
of Intent, signed by the U.S. and Indian governments in January 2015, to
deepen higher education collaboration.

With funding support from the U.S. Agency for International Development
(USAID), Duke University was selected by IITGN to receive initial support
under the agreement. The two schools immediately found common ground for
collaborative research, student exchanges, and joint engagement of private
sector partners.

Highlighting the strategic importance of the partnership for Duke University,
Larry Carin, Duke’s vice provost for research and delegation lead, said,
“India is a special place for Duke, as seen in the number of students and
alumni we have from India, the research collaborations our faculty have there,
and our institutional partnerships across India. We are privileged to work
with USAID and RTI International – our longstanding partner in North Carolina
– on this initiative with IITGN.”

From January 5-8, a 15-member contingent from Duke and RTI will work with
IITGN faculty and staff to develop new research projects, improve IITGN
capacity in critical areas, and discuss potential industry partnerships.

Pratt School of Engineering faculty members Michael Bergin of civil &
environmental engineering and Krishnendu Chakrabarty and Kishor Trivedi of
electrical & computer engineering were among the Duke faculty representatives,
while ECE PhD student and IITGN alumna Aditi Dighe returned to her alma mater
to speak with current students about her experiences studying at the two
partner schools.

The week’s events were made open to other IITs through simulcast on the IIT-
wide video network.

Welcoming the support and new partnership, Prof. Sudhir Jain, IITGN’s
director, added, “IITGN has carefully approached strategic global
partnerships, seeking out like minded institutions who share our focus on
transdisciplinary learning, student-focused pedagogy, and cutting-edge
research that improves our shared community. Duke is exactly that type of
partner.”

Speaking on the support being extended by USAID, Kathryn D. Stevens, acting
mission director, USAID/India, noted: “USAID and the IITs have a long history
of partnership. After supporting India in establishing IIT-Kanpur in 1960s,
the governments of both U.S. and India are once again collaborating to build
IIT-Gandhinagar into a center of excellence for science and technology. The
power of youth, technology and innovation is defining the U.S.-India
relationship and igniting a partnership that will advance and sustain
prosperity in our two countries.”

**\- About -**

IIT Gandhinagar: The Indian Institute of Technology Gandhinagar, deemed an
institute of national importance by an Act of the Indian Parliament, strives
to offer the best undergraduate engineering education in India with unmatched
innovations in curriculum. The institute promotes critical thinking and an
appreciation of the interdisciplinary character of knowledge, with an emphasis
on the liberal arts, project oriented learning, compulsory courses in design
and the life sciences, diversity and globalization. Its five-week immersion
Foundation Programme for all new undergraduate students was recognized with
the World Education Award 2013 by the World Education Summit for innovations
in engineering education. Nearly a quarter of its undergraduate students
receive study abroad experience during their academic career.

Duke University: Younger than most other prestigious U.S. research
universities, Duke University consistently ranks among the very best. Duke’s
graduate and professional schools — in business, divinity, engineering, the
environment, law, medicine, nursing and public policy — are among the leaders
in their fields. Duke’s home campus is situated on nearly 9,000 acres in
Durham, North Carolina, a city of more than 200,000 people. Duke also is
active internationally through the Duke-NUS Medical School in Singapore, Duke
Kunshan University in China and numerous research and education programs
across the globe. More than 75 percent of Duke students pursue service-
learning opportunities in Durham and around the world through DukeEngage and
other programs that advance the university’s mission of “knowledge in service
to society.”

USAID/India: The United States Agency for International Development (USAID)
works to end extreme poverty and promote resilient, democratic societies.
USAID is an independent government agency that provides economic, development,
and humanitarian assistance around the world in support of the foreign policy
goals of the United States. Leveraging India’s growing financial and human
resources, USAID is harnessing the strengths and capabilities of both
countries to tackle development challenges not only in India, but worldwide.
This approach to development capitalizes on the expertise, innovations, and
resources of the United States and India to tackle the most pressing
challenges of our day, from infectious diseases to food security and climate
change. USAID partners with India to address these and other issues through
the U.S. Government’s Feed the Future, Global Health, and Global Climate
Change initiatives. In all sectors, USAID builds private sector partnerships
to foster in-country sustainability and ownership, with a focus on health,
urban water and sanitation, food security, climate change, early grade
reading, and women’s empowerment as a cross-cutting issue.

RTI International: RTI International is one of the world’s leading research
institutes, dedicated to improving the human condition by turning knowledge
into practice. Its staff of more than 3,700 provides research and technical
services to governments and businesses in more than 75 countries in the areas
of health and pharmaceuticals, education and training, surveys and statistics,
advanced technology, international development, economic and social policy,
energy and the environment, and laboratory testing and chemical analysis.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

