

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Immune Cells Help Older Muscles Heal Like New

October 1, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

Macrophages enable regeneration of lab-grown adult muscle tissue

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have found a critical component for
growing self-healing muscle tissues from adult muscle—the immune system. The
discovery in mice is expected to play an important role in studying
degenerative muscle diseases and enhancing the survival of engineered tissue
grafts in future cell therapy applications.

The results appeared online October 1 in Nature Biomedical Engineering.

In 2014, the group led by Nenad Bursac, professor of biomedical engineering at
Duke, debuted the world’s first self-healing, lab-grown skeletal muscle. It
contracted powerfully, integrated into mice quickly and demonstrated the
ability to heal itself both inside the laboratory and inside an animal.

The milestone was achieved by taking samples of muscle from rats just two days
old, removing the cells, and “planting” them into a lab-made environment
perfectly tailored to help them grow. Besides a three-dimensional scaffolding
and plenty of nutrients, this environment supported the formation of niches
for muscle stem cells, known as satellite cells, that activate upon injury and
aid the regeneration process.

For potential applications with human cells, however, muscle samples would be
mostly taken from adult donors rather than newborns. Many degenerative muscle
diseases do not appear until adulthood, and growing the muscle in the lab to
test drug responses for these patients would benefit from the use of the
patient’s own adult cells.

There’s just one problem—lab-made adult muscle tissues do not have the same
regenerative potential as newborn tissue.

“I spent a year exploring methods to engineer muscle tissues from adult rat
samples that would self-heal after injury,” said Mark Juhas, a former Duke
doctoral student in Bursac’s lab who led both the original and new research.

“Adding various drugs and growth factors known to help muscle repair had
little effect, so I started to consider adding a supporting cell population
that could react to injury and stimulate muscle regeneration,” said Juhas.
“That’s how I came up with macrophages, immune cells required for muscle’s
ability to self-repair in our bodies.”

Macrophages are a type of white blood cell in the body’s immune system.
Literally translated from Greek as “big eaters,” macrophages engulf and digest
cellular debris, pathogens and anything else they don’t think should be
hanging around while also secreting factors that support tissue survival and
repair.

After a muscle injury, one class of macrophages shows up on the scene to clear
the wreckage left behind, increase inflammation and stimulate other parts of
the immune system. One of the cells they recruit is a second kind of
macrophage, dubbed M2, that decreases inflammation and encourages tissue
repair. While these anti-inflammatory macrophages had been used in muscle-
healing therapies before, they had never been integrated into a platform aimed
at growing complex muscle tissues outside of the body.

It took several additional months of work for Juhas to figure out how to
incorporate macrophages into the system. But once he did, the results changed
dramatically. Not only did the new muscle tissues perform better in the
laboratory, they performed better when grafted into live mice.

“When we damaged the adult-derived engineered muscle with a toxin, we saw no
functional recovery and muscle fibers would not build back,” said Bursac, who
is a co-director of Duke’s Regeneration Next initiative. “But after we added
the macrophages in the muscle, we had a wow moment. The muscle grew back over
15 days and contracted almost like it did before injury. It was really
remarkable.”

The success appears to stem primarily from macrophages acting to protect
damaged muscle cells from apoptosis—programmed cell death. While newborn
muscle cells naturally resist the urge to throw in the towel, adult muscle
cells need the macrophages to help them push through initial damage without
going into cell death. These surviving muscle fibers then provide a “scaffold”
for muscle stem cells to latch onto to perform their regenerative duties.

Bursac believes the discovery may lead to a new line of research for potential
regenerative therapies. According to a popular theory, fetal and newborn
tissues are much better at healing than adult tissues at least in part because
of an initial supply of tissue-resident macrophages that are similar to M2
macrophages. As individuals age, this original macrophage supply is replaced
by less regenerative and more inflammatory macrophages coming from bone marrow
and blood.

“We believe that the macrophages in our engineered muscle system may behave
more like the muscle-resident macrophages people are born with,” said Bursac.
“We are currently working to understand if this is indeed the case. One could
then envision ‘training’ macrophages to be better healers in a system like
ours or augmenting them by genetic modifications and then implanting them into
damaged sites in patients.”

That work is, of course, still years into the future. While this study also
showed that human macrophages support the healing of lab-grown rat muscle, and
separate work in Bursac’s group has grown complex human muscles containing
macrophages, there is not yet a good lab or animal system to test the
regenerative powers that this approach may have in humans.

“Building a platform to test these results in engineered human tissues is a
clear next step,” said Bursac. “Along the same lines, we want to better
understand the potential roles that macrophages within engineered muscle play
in its vascularization and innervation after implantation. We hope that our
approach of supplementing lab-grown muscles with immune system cells will
prove to be a general strategy to augment survival and function of other lab-
grown tissues in future regeneration therapies.”

This research was supported by the National Science Foundation and the
National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases
(AR070543, AR065873).

CITATION: “Incorporation of Macrophages Into Engineered Skeletal Muscle
Enables Enhanced Muscle Regeneration.” Mark Juhas, Nadia Abutaleb, Jason T.
Wang, Jean Ye, Zohaib Shaikh, Chaichontat Sriworarat, Ying Qian and Nenad
Bursac. Nature Biomedical Engineering, October, 2018. DOI:
10.1038/s41551-018-0290-2

# # #

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

