

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# The Impact of Trash Burning on Air Quality

May 17, 2017

The Indian Institute of Technology - Gandhinagar teams up with Duke to
investigate health implications of common roadside fires in urban India

_Originally posted on theIITGN news blog_

With many cities in India getting to the point where air pollution outweighs
the benefits of exercising outdoors, every source of exposure needs all the
attention it can get. In some cities, such as Western India’s Ahmedabad with
its more than 5.5 million residents, entire mountains have been built out of
piles of trash.

In early May, 2017, the Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Services found itself
busy at their local trash mountain, dousing out flames. The (in)famously
gigantic pile of garbage has long posed a substantial health risk to several
thousand families who live in its close proximity, prompting plans to install
and operate an air quality monitoring network.

The city of Ahmedabad is no stranger to air pollution, clocking in at the
fifth position nationwide. In the recently released issue brief on air
pollution in the city, the burning of trash gets a passing mention as a
contributor to air pollution. However, it turns out that the smoke from
burning roadside trash piles can be at least as dangerous as the more obvious
culprits, including vehicular pollution and pollution from factories.

For instance, in tests conducted on samples of emissions from several garbage
fires in Bengaluru, Prof. Michael Bergin (Duke University) pointed out that
somebody standing near one of these fires is getting a dose of toxins 1,000
times greater than they would from the ambient air. In his research, Prof.
Bergin studies natural and manmade microscopic particles floating all around
the Earth’s atmosphere. His work has brought him to India on more than one
occasion, previously showing that emissions of particulate matter from sources
that included dung and garbage burning in nearby localities were among the
culprits that were turning the Taj Mahal yellow.

In January 2016, a local university, the India Institute of Technology -
Gandhinagar (IITGN), partnered with Duke University with support from the
Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD), Government of India and United
States Agency for International Development (USAID) to tackle some of the air
pollution issues in the area.

This partnership brought Prof. Bergin back to India, this time to the twin
cities of Gandhinagar and Ahmedabad. His initial visit to IITGN early last
year sparked a research collaboration with Prof. Chinmay Ghoroi. After some
exchanges, students from Duke University found themselves spending their
Winter break on the IITGN campus.

The project focused on quantifying the contribution of emissions from trash
burning in the city to the overall air pollution. The team featured four
students each from IIT Gandhinagar and Duke University, and two students from
IIT Kanpur. For more than three weeks, the team coordinated and planned
several site visits and lab experiments focusing on air quality and trash
composition.

“Duke and IITGN have expertise that are very complementary to each other,”
said Prof. Bergin. “While IITGN has experts in water resources, Duke has
knowledge and experience in air quality and related issues. This gives us a
good opportunity to work together and learn from one another.”

The team wasted no time settling in and got straight to work. During one of
the early days, the team was headed for Vatva and Bhaipura in Ahmedabad to
collect primary data to study the air quality around the area. Before heading
out, they carefully identified locations where trash burning was a routine
affair.

The first drive to the chosen spot at Vatva started at 9:30 AM and was more
than an hour long. But when they arrived, there was no burning trash on site.
Undeterred, the team made their own trash pile to set on fire, but not before
spending a good hour explaining what was going to a bunch of very bewildered
locals.

In due course, the team also visited Pirana and Kankaria lake, setting up
their equipment to measure the air quality while trash was burning. After the
measurements were recorded, the students collated the data and quickly
analyzed the information, thanks to some very convenient gadgets developed at
Duke. Sure enough, the graph showed carbon monoxide levels rising
significantly after the trash caught fire.

The project was an intense experience from the cultural standpoint for the
entire team. During their public site visits, the nerds with funky gadgets
taking on burning piles of trash in the heart of the city did not go entirely
unnoticed. Onlookers were mostly bemused, and the more curious ones wanted to
know what exactly was going on and what might be eventually achieved.

For many of the people that the team encountered, the smoke from these burning
trash piles is a part of their daily grind. In some of the more intensely
affected areas, the residents are effectively choking and are desperate for
solutions—someone paying attention brings them hope.

The long-term goals of this project are ambitious, involving putting the
burning trash to good use by generating energy that can be captured and
converted for tangible use. In the shorter term, the team hopes that their
analysis and reports will draw some much-needed attention to the extent to
which trash burning contributes to air pollution and exposure to toxins.

For future updates on this project and others from IITGN – Duke collaboration,
stay tuned to their website.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

