

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Inkjet-Printed Tool Enables Sensitive Diagnostic Testing in Point-of-Care
Settings

August 8, 2017 | By Michaela Kane

New portable platform can show results in 15 minutes, allowing for rapid and
sensitive diagnostic testing in resource-limited settings

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have created a portable diagnostic
tool that can detect telltale markers of disease as accurately as the most
sensitive tests on the market, while cutting the wait time for results from
hours or even days to 15 minutes.

Created by inkjet-printing an array of antibodies onto a glass slide with a
nonstick polymer coating, the diagnostic tool, called the D4 assay, is a self-
contained test that can detect low levels of antigens, the protein markers of
a disease, from a single drop of blood. By creating a sensitive, easy-to-use
“lab on a chip,” the researchers plan to bring rapid diagnostic testing to
areas that lack access to standard lab-based diagnostic technologies.

The platform is described August 7, 2017 in the _Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences._

Beyond detecting diseases, healthcare workers use diagnostic tools to assess
the severity of an illness, plan an effective treatment strategy, and track an
individual’s response to treatment. While some tests, like the lateral flow
test, are fast, portable and easy to use, they aren’t usually sensitive enough
to provide information beyond the presence or absence of a particular
biomarker, so healthcare workers often need to use quantitative methods to
determine how severe an infection is.

Currently, the gold standard for quantitative diagnostic tests is the enzyme-
linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), which identifies how many specific
antigens are present in a biological sample. While ELISA is among the most
sensitive immunoassay tools on the market for detecting diseases like Zika and
HIV or tracking hormone levels in the blood, it requires trained researchers
or liquid handling robotic devices to follow a series of time-consuming steps
to ensure that no unwanted proteins stick to the assay and muddy the results.
The test also requires bulky laboratory instruments for data analysis, making
it ill-equipped for use in resource-limited settings.

As an added complication, the ELISA platform can take up to 24 hours to show
test results --which often means a delay in treatment even as the disease
continues to spread.

The D4 assay allows clinicians to avoid these problems without sacrificing
sensitivity or accuracy. The new assay can identify a disease biomarker in as
few as 15 minutes, and results can be read using a tabletop scanner or 3-D
printed smartphone attachment that uses the phone’s camera to read the
results, enabling the tool to be used in point-of-care settings for rapid
diagnosis.

Like the ELISA platform, the D4 assay uses a matched pair of antibodies to
detect and capture a target protein in a blood sample. The array contains two
types of antibodies ––immobilized capture antibodies and soluble detection
antibodies --which are tagged with a fluorescent marker to allow the
researchers to identify how much of the antigen is present. When a drop of
blood is placed on the slide, the detection antibodies dissolve, separate from
the array and bind to the target proteins in the blood. These fluorescing
antibody-protein pairs then attach to the capture antibodies that are still on
the slide.

But unlike other diagnostic tests like the ELISA or lateral flow test, D4
assay’s antibody array is printed on a novel polymer brush coating. When a
sample is placed on the slide, the coating works like Teflon to prevent the
non-target proteins from attaching to the surface of the slide. By preventing
unwanted proteins from binding to the assay, the polymer brush makes it easier
to detect low levels of target proteins by getting rid of the ‘background
noise’ on the chip.

“The real significance of the assay is the polymer brush coating,” says
Ashutosh Chilkoti, chair of the Department of Biomedical Engineering (BME) at
Duke and senior author on the paper. “The polymer brush allowed us to store
all of the tools we need on the chip while maintaining a simple design.”

Using the D4 assay, researchers don’t need to follow a complicated workflow to
clear non-target proteins from their slide, as with the ELISA test. Instead,
they simply need to wash the slide in a buffer solution to remove any
extraneous particles.

As a proof-of-concept for the accuracy of their assay, the research team
conducted a clinical trial to measure the serum leptin levels in patients at
Duke University Medical Center and compare them to those observed with the
clinical ELISA platform. A previous study from Michael Freemark, a professor
of pediatrics at Duke University School of Medicine and a senior author on the
paper, showed that low serum leptin levels could predict mortality and
complications in severely malnourished children. Leptin levels are typically
measured using ELISA, but the researchers recognized that if they could use
the D4 assay to accurately test for leptin levels, the tool could be used to
plan better treatment for those suffering from malnutrition in resource-
limited settings. The study found that the results from the D4 assay were on
par with those from the ELISA test.

“What’s cool is that our assay can achieve comparable sensitivity to the ELISA
within 15 minutes, and if further sensitivity is needed, longer incubation
times can be used,” says Daniel Joh, an MD-PhD student in the Chilkoti lab and
co-author of the paper. “This device can also be compared to a lateral flow
test, which is quite fast as it takes less than five minutes to get a reading,
but that test isn’t as sensitive. This is really the best of both worlds.”

Unlike the ELISA, the D4 assay is a highly portable tool, as the dry slides
don’t need to be refrigerated during transport. The design is also cost-
efficient––Joh and his collaborators estimate that the D4 chips will cost less
than one dollar and the mobile phone attachment developed at the University of
California, Los Angeles will be less than $30 when they are produced in bulk.

Next, Joh and Angus Hucknall, co-author of the paper and a senior researcher
in the Chilkoti lab who previously developed the polymer brush technology with
Chilkoti, will also conduct a field test of the prototype tool in Liberia,
screening participants’ serum leptin levels to gain a better understanding of
how diagnostic results from the D4 assay can be used to monitor and plan
treatment strategies for malnutrition. The team also plans to study how they
can use the tool to perform a wider array of diagnostics.

“The D4 assay enables us to conduct high-performance diagnostic testing with
minimal resources, making it a promising platform for increasing access to
sensitive and quantitative diagnostic tools,” says Hucknall.

The research was funded by the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, the
National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences of the National Institute
of Health, the Wallace H. Coulter Endowment at Duke University, the Duke
Global Health Institute, Elrha's Humanitarian Innovation Fund and the European
Commission.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

