

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# From Innovation to Impact

October 19, 2018

Duke researchers are taking their discoveries from the research lab into the
marketplace

When four Duke researchers developed an innovative technique for exploring the
non-coding genome—the 98 percent of our DNA that does not encode protein
sequences, often called the genome’s “dark matter”—the implications were
clear. Their approach, using technologies including CRISPR gene editing to
shed new light on gene regulation, has enormous potential to guide development
of new drugs to combat a host of genetic diseases.

The question the researchers then faced was: How best to develop those new
therapies in order to make them available to patients? The answer: Take the
work beyond the academic lab and into the world of commercialization.

The four researchers—Greg Crawford, PhD, associate professor in the Department
of Pediatrics; Charlie Gersbach, PhD, Rooney Family Associate Professor of
Biomedical Engineering; Tim Reddy, PhD, associate professor of biostatistics
and bioinformatics; and Kris Wood, PhD, assistant professor of pharmacology
and cancer biology—launched a startup company called Element Genomics. Last
spring, Element made big news when a global pharmaceutical firm, UCB, acquired
it for $30 million.

Element Genomics is emblematic of the growth of academic entrepreneurship,
increasingly the path of choice to move innovative new biomedical
technologies, devices, techniques, and other advances from the lab to the
marketplace, where they can be deployed to benefit patients.

“We all want our work to have impact in the world,” says Wood. “And it’s great
to see that, increasingly, faculty at Duke are able to take discoveries in
their labs and not only publish those results to advance scientific
understanding, but also leverage those discoveries to start companies that
ultimately connect the science to consumers and patients.”

## Navigating the Maze

Scientists are experts at doing science. They tend to be less conversant in
matters like raising capital, negotiating industry contracts, and navigating
commercial licensing and regulatory requirements.

Fortunately, Duke has a number of people who are experts in those areas, and
they are on hand to help. Element Genomics benefitted greatly, for example,
from the Duke- Coulter Translational Partnership, directed by Barry Myers,
which supports translational research collaborations between the Duke
Department of Biomedical Engineering and clinical units of Duke Health. John
Oxaal, the Pratt School of Engineering’s first entrepreneur-in-residence, also
played a key role in bringing Element Genomics to market, and served as the
company’s CEO.

The main conduit between academic innovation and commercial enterprise at Duke
is the Office of Licensing & Ventures (OLV), the university’s technology
transfer office. OLV partners with faculty and staff, industry, and investors
to help discoveries and innovations birthed in Duke labs reach the marketplace
for the benefit of society, and to enable future investment in Duke research
and innovation. That means guiding innovators through the complexities of
analyzing the market and competition, securing patents, connecting with
potential industry partners, raising capital, exploring options for licensing
or launching a startup, negotiating deals, managing expenses and revenue, and
more.

While Element Genomics was one of the quickest faculty startups to move from
lab to launch to sale, it was far from the first. Last year alone, OLV
received nearly 350 invention disclosures from Duke faculty, staff, and
graduate students interested in moving their innovations from the lab to
market. The majority of these inventions— about two-thirds—are related to
improving health care through biomedical therapeutics, medical devices and
diagnostics, and other innovations.

OLV was instrumental in the launch and acquisition of Element Genomics.

“Even before we knew we wanted to start a company, OLV was diligent in
ensuring that we were properly ling new inventions, so when we were ready to
start a company, we were able to transfer that technology,” Gersbach recalls.
“OLV was incredibly helpful and responsive in getting the licensing deal
complete, which was essential to our fundraising efforts and played a key role
in the negotiation with the acquirer.”

## Galvanizing Opportunities

At Element Genomics, the acquisition is helping the founders realize the
potential of technologies they developed at Duke to create new medicines. It’s
also helping create jobs—Element employs a number of Duke alumni—and stimulate
biotech activity in Durham. The company will remain based in the newly
renovated Chesterfield Building on West Main Street, a former tobacco factory
that Duke has transformed into a gleaming hub of biotech and advanced science.

Most Duke startups remain in this area, providing opportunities for employment
and growth throughout the Triangle. “These companies need the type of
expertise that Duke alums have, whether it’s clinical, professional, or
scientific leadership,” Hallford says. “There are real opportunities here for
people who have the right skill set to take things forward and really make a
difference.”

This expertise is particularly needed, because most faculty stay at Duke even
after their companies launch.

“Taking those first steps was frightening, but also exhilarating,” Wood
remembers. “We hope that our success galvanizes other scientists at Duke to
think similarly about how they can convert their discoveries into commercial
opportunities.”

More about Element Genomics

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

