

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Interdisciplinary Teams Take a Hands-on Approach to Energy Innovations

November 30, 2015

Bacteria that eat methane and turn themselves into cattle feed. A solar-
powered pressure cooker that sterilizes medical equipment in rural clinics. A
fleet of FedEx trucks powered by natural gas.

_Originally published onInterdisciplinary Studies at Duke_

Bacteria that eat methane and turn themselves into cattle feed. A solar-
powered pressure cooker that sterilizes medical equipment in rural clinics. A
fleet of FedEx trucks powered by natural gas that would have been burned off
through flare stacks and wasted.

Duke students working with Emily M. Klein and Josiah Knight are coming up with
innovative approaches to pressing energy challenges, and gaining the skills
and experience to play leadership roles in a rapidly evolving energy future.

  
Klein is professor of earth and ocean sciences at the Nicholas School of the
Environment. She is also deeply engaged in work on campus that furthers
diversity and inclusion, including as the founding faculty director of the
Baldwin Scholars program for female undergraduates. Klein and Knight, who is
associate professor of mechanical engineering and materials science, serve on
the Duke Energy Initiative’s faculty advisory committee and are codirectors of
the Certificate in Energy and the Environment, designed to help students
understand the energy system as a whole and the interconnections among policy,
markets, technology and the environment.

“The certificate program was a joint Nicholas School-Pratt School effort that
was supported in part by a wonderful, visionary donor, Jeff Gendell,” says
Klein. “A certificate is like a minor, but it crosses departments—and in this
case, it crosses schools.”

The certificate is only for undergraduates, though. “So when Bass Connections
came along with the Energy theme, it was wonderful,” Klein says. Bass
Connections project teams are designed to include graduate and undergraduate
students as well as faculty and outside experts. Since Fall 2014, she and
Knight have led a Bass Connections project to identify, design and prototype
new energy technologies, systems or approaches.

“We put together teams of Pratt and Trinity undergraduates, as well as
graduate students, to come up with their own ideas of what they’re interested
in working on in the realm of energy and the environment,” she explains. “Last
year one project was driven by a student who did DukeEngage in Nicaragua and
was working with an NGO. They have clinics in rural areas, and they’re off-
grid. These people needed an inexpensive, solar-powered autoclave that would
sterilize small instruments.”

  
A group of mechanical and civil engineering students, an environmental science
student and a public policy student researched many approaches. “They
determined that a pressure cooker gets up to the temperature needed to
sterilize medical equipment. So they built this reflector, a solar
concentrator, and did all the calculations on heating time, weather conditions
in Nicaragua…it almost got there by the end of the year. The first-year
student worked on it further over the summer and figured out where the heat
was being lost.”

Among this year’s projects are stationary bikes that can run a filtration
system to clean water from the Baltimore Harbor through artificial wetlands,
an energy-efficient small vehicle and use of novel materials like grapheme for
energy-saving applications.

“Being involved in this experience has made me want to delve more into energy
in my own research,” says Klein. “It’s made me want to make a connection to
resource availability and impacts on people, communities and the environment.
That led to my beginning to work on another Bass Connections project, The
Effects of Unconventional Shale Gas Development on Rural Communities. It’s
giving me a forum to begin to work with students and my colleagues on this
incredibly important area of fracking and its human impact.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

