

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Integrated Design Challenge Restores Balance to the Force

April 14, 2023 | Miranda Volborth

Student teams in ECE 110L build and program small robots that collect and
process data, on a Star Wars-themed field of play

**“That’s no moon.”**

The aging R-2 units that guide the Rebel Alliance’s X-wing Starfighters are
ready to be retired. They’ll be replaced with shiny new CX-B droids built and
programmed by an elite team of ECE 110L engineers. Once installed, the new
droids will work together to intercept pieces of code broadcast by the
Imperial fleet and use the code to coordinate an attack on the Empire’s
hulking battle station.

The fate of the galaxy now rests in the hands of Duke Engineering students.

The death star is, of course, a theoretical concept represented by a
3D-printed model the size of a baseball. The ventilation shaft through which
the starships will attack is marked in black tape. But the intensity with
which the students approach the challenge could rival Luke Skywalker’s.

“After nearly two decades of teaching, I’ve found that the best way to connect
with and engage a student is to connect their learning to something they
likely enjoy,” said Adam Davidson, the lab administrator for electrical and
computer engineering. “It helps to provide something topical and, if possible,
relevant to pop culture—right now, Star Wars is both of those.”

ECE 110L is a foundational course for students majoring in electrical and
computer engineering, and it’s required for biomedical engineering students as
well. That’s because the core concepts covered in this lab—sensor data
acquisition and processing—provide a foundation of knowledge and skills upon
which every subsequent course will build.

Central to the course is the “integrated design challenge,” or IDC, which is
the framework that helps sequence and structure all the topics that students
will master over the course of the semester: using servos with QTI sensors to
navigate dark paths against light backgrounds and RGB color sensors to
differentiate among colored objects, displaying data on LCD screens, and
transmitting and receiving information via wireless XBee devices.

From year to year, the theme of the IDC changes. Other recent challenges have
hinged on Quidditch and the Olympic games. Teaching assistant Michaela Harris,
a student studying ECE and BME, took the class last semester when the theme
was “Mission to Mars.”

“My own semester started out rough because I had no experience with the
programming language that we use, so I had a hard time completing some of the
checkpoints,” said Harris. “I put in some time outside of class to learn a
little more about C/C++ and learned the syntax of the language, which helped
me enjoy lab more as the semester progressed.”

Harris said she feels lucky that she had a fun lab with great teaching
assistants who helped keep the stress level down. She said she became a TA
herself to “pay that experience forward.” Because of her own initial
difficulty understanding C/C++, Harris created slides for her section that
introduced them to the language and gave examples to refer to in the early
labs—which she noticed they frequently did. “They also worked super hard to
get through this challenge—they talked to each other, consulted the internet a
bunch and asked super awesome questions when they were stuck,” said Harris.

One issue that she didn’t foresee, though, was prevailing problems with the
bots’ power supply. “The robots had a lot of commands to run for a long period
of time and the batteries of their bots drained quickly,” explained Harris.

Despite the fact that a couple of teams were still debugging their code in the
minutes before their final runs, it was only the power supply issues that
caused problems for Harris’s section— the buggy code proved to have been fixed
and those bots completed their tasks flawlessly.

“Power management is a pain, a real pain,” said Davidson. “In STEM education
we are often taught at a young age to think outside of the box, and that you
have an unlimited budget and all the supplies you want or need. Reality is in
stark contrast to this.”

> “Our students leave ECE 110L with a higher degree of knowledge about how to
> deploy microcontrollers, servos, and a smattering of sensors and displays,
> all of which they’ll continue to have access to and be expected to use in
> their advanced design courses."
>
> ECE lab manager Adam Davidson

It’s great to shoot for the pie-in-the-sky scenario, said Davidson, but
students also have to work with changing conditions and constraints—like being
handed an older lithium-ion battery. “Students sometimes have to account for
conditions on the fly,” said Davidson. “We want our students to develop a
mentality of resilience and to learn from a failure, even if that failure may
sting a little. In the real world of engineering, this will happen more often
than not.”

After the IDC concludes, each student participates in an oral defense. (Or, in
this semester’s case, a “final run debrief.”) During the defense, lab
administrators and teaching assistants will quiz students on their code and
ask questions about the choices they made in their builds. This ensures that
they’ve got a solid grasp of the concepts before they move on to more advanced
classes.

“After they finish ECE 110L, our students are more prepared to take courses on
microelectronic devices and circuits, fields and waves, signals and systems,
and a variety of BME courses as well,” said Davidson. “Our students leave ECE
110L with a higher degree of knowledge about how to deploy microcontrollers,
servos, and a smattering of sensors and displays, all of which they’ll
continue to have access to and be expected to use in their advanced design
courses. They’ll be comfortable with standard benchtop equipment, too, like
oscilloscopes, waveform generators, digital multimeters and DC power supplies,
which they’ll use in courses and labs throughout their time here at Duke.”

More News from Duke ECE

## Related News

April 09, 2019

### First Year, First Patent Pending

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

