

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# The Intersection of Electrical Engineering and Materials Design

February 18, 2021

In this Q&A, professor Adrienne Stiff-Roberts explains how electrical
engineering and materials research intersect, and talks about the
multidisciplinary approach that makes Duke special

Adrienne Stiff-Roberts is the Jeffrey N. Vinik Professor of Electrical and
Computer Engineering and the Director of Graduate Studies for the University
Program in Materials Science and Engineering at Duke University.

## 1\. Can you tell us a bit about your research interests, and what goes on
in your lab at Duke?

My research interests are in thin film deposition of hybrid materials for
optoelectronic devices, meaning I’m interested in making devices based on the
interaction of light and matter.

**optoelectronics:** (äp-tō-i-lek-ˈträ-niks) a branch of electronics that
deals with electronic devices for emitting, modulating, transmitting, and
sensing light

There are some everyday applications that you might be familiar with—things
like light-emitting diodes (LEDs) that are used for lighting, and in consumer
products like televisions. Solar cells are used to convert sunlight into
electricity. Photodetectors that sense light and lasers are other important
applications. The materials that I’m interested in using to make these devices
are hybrid materials, meaning they’re made of organic and inorganic materials.

Inorganic materials are things like semiconductors, that are very good at
conducting charge and offer a high level of control. Organic materials are
things like plastics, which have properties like flexibility and transparency.
Combining the two is interesting because of the properties you then get in the
final device. But it’s very challenging, because the two are inherently
different.

Sometimes people wonder why you would want to put plastic in something that is
used to make these devices, because plastics are typically thought of as
insulators—but there’s a very special class of organic materials that have a
configuration of carbon bonds that allow them to behave as semiconductors.

So, how do you make a thin film of this hybrid material so you can turn it
into one of these devices?  That’s the work we do in my group—we develop a
novel type of thin-film deposition technique that enables control over these
hybrid materials. I’m interested in using my deposition technique,  RIR-MAPLE,
to deposit such hybrid materials. One specific example is the class of
materials known as hybrid perovskites, especially those with a large organic
component.

**RIR-MAPLE:** Resonant Infrared Matrix-Assisted Pulsed Laser Evaporation,
developed by Duke professor Adrienne Stiff-Roberts over the past decade.

## 2\. Why is your research important? How will it advance the field?

In general, when we talk about hybrid devices that are based on the
interaction of light and matter, one reason they’re important is because of
the types of future systems they could enable. Think about your smartphone or
your tablet—it’s full of these optoelectronic devices. You have a display
that’s emitting an image, that’s based on some type of optoelectronic device.
These are based on traditional semiconductor materials. If you can make the
device hybrid, though, there’s the possibility that you could have devices
that are flexible, or transparent, or more transportable, or deployed in our
everyday lives in fundamentally different ways. They might be integrated into
clothing and other fabrics or building materials. They could open up
fundamentally different types of systems.

One material I’m working with right now, that I’m very excited about, is
hybrid perovskites. Hybrid perovskites are cool because they have a
crystalline structure--an inorganic crystalline framework that fits organic
molecules inside of it. That’s important because when we know exactly where
all the atoms are that make up a material, we can make predictions about how
the material will behave and we can better describe its behavior—which means
we can design and fabricate better devices because we understand the materials
so well.

> "When we know exactly where all the atoms are that make up a material, we
> can make predictions about how the material will behave and we can better
> describe its behavior—which means we can design and fabricate better
> devices."
>
> Adrienne Stiff-roberts, Jeffrey N. Vinik Professor of Electrical and
> Computer Engineering

Hybrid perovskites are exciting because of their potential to improve the
efficiency of solar cells. To give you a frame of reference—silicon solar
cells were first demonstrated in 1954, and from that time to today, these
single devices reach around 25 percent efficiency, more or less. We’re losing
75 percent of that energy from the sun. These hybrid perovskite solar cells
were first demonstrated around 2009, and they’re already up to that same 25
percent efficiency. When you think about the development of that technology,
it’s extremely exciting that these materials could give us more efficient
conversion of solar energy to electricity—that would obviously have a big
impact on reducing carbon emissions.

## 3\. What makes Duke strong in the area of materials?

Its strength really is that it’s multidisciplinary. You can find materials
research in ECE, in BME, in chemistry, physics—materials touch a lot. After
all, whatever you want to make, you have to make it out of something! And in
order to have that product work well, you first have to understand the
materials.

**multidisciplinary:** (məltēˈdisəpləˌnerē) combining or involving several
academic disciplines or professional specializations in an approach to a topic
or problem.

As you can imagine, the organic materials that I’ve been talking about are
something that chemists often study, and the inorganic materials, especially
semiconductors, are something that electrical engineers like to study. Having
people interested in different aspects of these materials is inherently
multidisciplinary, and the problems we face today, more and more often, demand
that we bring these different areas together to solve them.

## 4\. Can you give me an example of how this kind of collaboration plays out
in your own work?

I’m working in a center called CHOISE—the Center for Hybrid Organic-Inorganic
Semiconductors for Energy. This is a DoE Energy Frontier Research Center led
by the National Renewable Energy Lab (NREL). I belong to that project along
with two other engineers from Duke—David Mitzi and Volker Blum—and others from
the University of Utah, UNC Chapel Hill, and other organizations. We’re
looking at hybrid materials like perovskites, trying to understand those
materials as their own semiconductor technology.

When we talk about semiconductor technology, the one we’re familiar with is
silicon. But what if you had a semiconductor technology that was hybrid
organic-inorganic? What are all the different devices we could make from it,
to control electrons, photons, or spin?

That’s what the center is about. And it’s a huge, multifaceted problem: how do
you make the materials? How do you characterize the materials to understand
what they do? How do you model the materials so you can make predictions? What
kinds of device demonstrations can you do to show that they are meaningful?
All of that is very broad and spans chemistry, physics, electrical engineering
and materials science. My part is answering the question, “How do we make thin
films of these materials and what special properties does a particular
technique give to the materials as a result?”

## 5\. For students who share your interest in materials and want to learn and
study more, when would one apply to ECE versus the University Program in
Materials Science?

It’s really about how a student views themselves, and how they want to present
themselves. When you’re thinking about graduate education, particularly at the
master’s level, there are a few things I think you should think about. One is,
what is your own background and what is the goal for this degree? Do you want
to do a deep dive into material that you learned as an undergraduate? Do you
want to change direction or change your field to broaden your perspective? Or
do you want to be able to precisely tailor your curriculum? Each of those, I
think, has a different path.

If you’re interested in materials, ECE is a good fit for master’s education,
particularly if you’re especially interested in electronic and photonic
materials. Or, if you want to supplement your studies of materials with things
that are relevant to ECE because of their applications. Maybe you want to
learn more about computer engineering or semiconductor devices, or
circuits—photonic materials directly relevant to communication systems or
computer systems. Then, ECE makes a lot of sense. And at Duke, the ECE
master’s degree is flexible so you can augment ECE training with electives in
other departments that are materials-related.

As far as the University Program in Materials Science, for which I am the
director of graduate studies, it makes a lot of sense to take that route if
you want a strong foundation in materials science and engineering—maybe
because you’re coming from a different field. And there, you have the ability
to do research with faculty in the eight participating departments. There’s a
common curriculum, but you can diversify in terms of the research you do.

## Related News

January 03, 2018

### Laser Evaporation Technology to Create New Solar Materials

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

