

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Drone Expertise Integral to Intrepid Museum Exhibit

May 10, 2017

The first large-scale exhibit on drones features equipment, co-curators from
Duke engineering

There’s only one place to see flying formalwear alongside early visions of
tomorrow’s flying cars—a new exhibition at the Intrepid Sea, Air &Space Museum
in New York City.

Opening on Wednesday, May 10, 2017, _Drones: Is the Sky the Limit?_ is the
first major museum exhibition on unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs). Appearing in
a 6,000-square-foot custom-designed pavilion, the technology showcase was
shaped in part by co-curators from Duke engineering Mary “Missy” Cummings,
professor of mechanical engineering and materials science and director of Duke
Robotics and the Humans and Autonomy Laboratory, and Alexander J. Stimpson,
senior research scientist in Cummings’s laboratory and cofounder of
Autonometrics, LLC.

“In 1903 with the Wright brothers’ first flight at Kitty Hawk, people were
fascinated with the idea of simply sharing the sky with birds. In just a
little more than 100 years, we are again capturing this spirit of aviation
adventure by harnessing pilotless aircraft to augment humans in ways never
envisioned by the Wright brothers,” said Cummings. “This exhibit truly
captures our new transformative golden age of aviation, and will leave
visitors amazed and excited by the future of autonomous flight.”

The Intrepid Sea, Air &Space Museum already features the aircraft carrier
_Intrepid_ , the space shuttle _Enterprise_ , the world’s fastest jets and a
guided missile submarine. For the next six months, the museum will also
explore the history of drone technology, from its modern origins in World War
I and its military development to its current applications in solving complex
humanitarian and commercial challenges.

Of particular interest to Cummings, visitors will be able to watch the
dizzying first-person viewpoint of a drone racing, get a sneak peek of a full-
scale conceptual aircraft that may become the personal autonomous
transportation system of the future, and marvel at _Volantis_ , the world’s
first “flying dress” on display to the public for the first time, designed by
global superstar Lady Gaga, in collaboration with the technology development
division of her Haus of Gaga (known as TechHaus).

The Duke connection to the exhibit also extends to the installations
themselves, as the Duke Marine Lab provided the images, video and hardware for
a case study on drones in conservation that they have used for supporting a
variety of conservation missions.

“The advancement of pilotless aircraft over the past few decades is truly
astonishing,” said Susan Marenoff-Zausner, president of the Intrepid Museum.
“This exhibition showcases the far-reaching impact of drones on countless
human endeavors—from wildlife conservation and space exploration to artistic
expression and our daily lives. _Drones: Is the Sky the Limit?_ gives visitors
amazing insight into how far we have come and how this technology will shape
the future.”

The Intrepid Museum will also offer related programs for students, educators
and the general public that explore this growing technology and its
controversial and ethical implications. Programs will incorporate lively
dialogue, demonstrations of drones in flight, installations and social gaming.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

