

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Invisibility Cloak Lands Duke Engineers on ‘Scientific American 50′

December 1, 2006

Two researchers at Duke University's Pratt School of Engineering have been
named to the "Scientific American 50" for their work on developing an
"invisibility cloak."

Compiled by _Scientific American_ magazine, the roster of leaders in research,
business and public policy appeared in the December 2006 issue, which hit
newsstands on Nov. 21. The complete list of honorees is also available online.

David R. Smith, Augustine Scholar and associate professor of electrical and
computer engineering, and David Schurig, research associate in electrical and
computer engineering, were selected for what the magazine calls "outstanding
acts of leadership in science and technology from the past year."

"I am thrilled that our group has been chosen to be part of Scientific
American's group of fifty," Smith said. "Our invisibility cloak has helped
illustrate in a spectacular manner what is possible using artificially
engineered materials. I expect that there will be many more remarkable
demonstrations to come."

"I never expected to be so honored for hiding something," Schurig added.

The Duke team, along with Sir John Pendry of Imperial College London, reported
the first demonstration of a working invisibility cloak in October in _Science
Express_ , the advance online publication of the journal _Science_. Fabricated
from advanced "metamaterials," the cloak deflects microwave beams so they flow
with little distortion around a copper cylinder "hidden" inside, making it
appear almost as if nothing were there at all.

Metamaterials are artificial composites that can be made to interact with
electromagnetic waves in ways that natural materials cannot reproduce.

The team produced the cloak according to electromagnetic specifications
determined by a new design theory proposed by Pendry in collaboration with the
Duke scientists. The team reported its theoretical work in Science earlier
this year, alongside another report on invisibility theory by Ulf Leonhardt of
the University of St. Andrews, in Scotland.

Both Pendry and Leonhardt also were named to the Scientific American 50.

"The Scientific American 50 pays tribute to individuals and organizations who,
through their efforts in research, business and policy-making, are driving
advances in science and technology that lay the groundwork for a better
future," the magazine's editor-in-chief, John Rennie, said in an advance
announcement. "Not only does our list honor these prime movers, it shines a
spotlight on the critical fields that are benefiting from their achievements."

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

