

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Joel Collier: Nudging Immunological Responses

September 23, 2015

Synthetic materials tip the immune system toward better patient outcomes

Joel Collier will join the faculty in Duke University’s Department of
Biomedical Engineering in the spring semester of 2016. With a long history of
designing self-assembling synthetic peptides and proteins, Collier will bring
his foundation in basic science to Duke with the hopes of making an impact in
a clinical setting.

Collier’s primary interest is in nudging the body’s immune system to produce
favorable responses in a variety of diseases. While the immune system is a
marvel of biological evolution that protects us from a vast array of
pathogens, it can miss particular invaders and sometimes do more harm than
good.

For example, many infectious diseases such as malaria, influenza, HIV and
others lack highly protective vaccines. Other non-infectious diseases such as
cancer may be treatable via the immune system if it can be harnessed to reject
cancer cells or make the tumor environment unsuitable for the cancer’s growth.
Still other conditions such as chronic inflammation or chronic wounds may be
treatable if the immune system can be co-opted to work against the
inflammation.

“We are working to design nanomaterials out of various peptides and proteins
that tip the immune system to behave in a way that is uniquely suited for each
disease and condition,” said Collier, who joins Duke from the University of
Chicago. “This is challenging because the immune system is complicated. Every
type of immunological cell that interacts with these materials does so in a
different manner. So we try to build our materials in a way that stimulates
the right combination of cells to behave the right way.”

Collier’s group is currently working on fighting chronic inflammation, such as
in Crohn’s disease and rheumatoid arthritis. One of the hallmarks of these
diseases is overproduction of an inflammatory signaling protein called TNF.
Currently, the best way to lower its level is by taking antibodies that target
it. This method, however, requires patients to continually take the
medication, which is expensive and can eventually stop working.

Collier wants to spur the body’s immune system to make these anti-TNF
antibodies itself. But this is easier said than done, as overproduction of the
antibodies could send the body spiraling into an autoimmune disorder.

“You want to be able to adjust the strength and the characteristics of the
immune response and also turn the response off if needed,” said Collier. “It’s
a very specific kind of immune response that you have to hit. Your immune
system is composed of many different cell types with different roles, and
mixing and matching how each one responds is the whole trick.”

Outside of immunotherapies, Collier’s group also works in areas such as tissue
repair, 3-D cell culture and wound healing. In the latter, his group is
creating synthetic extracellular matrices to promote tissue repair. They also
conduct research into resurfacing biomedical devices, like vascular grafts, so
that they integrate well within the body.

Collier’s interest in applying his research in a clinical setting is a key
part of what brought him to Duke.

“Duke’s biomedical engineering department and Duke Medicine have a fantastic
environment for translational research,” said Collier. “I want to fill my lab
with engineers whose driving force is a desire to bring an idea into actual
practice. Our group is primed to move strongly in that direction.”

Collier will also have a secondary appointment in Duke’s Department of
Immunology, which he says will be vital to his laboratory’s success.

“I’m an engineer and my lab will be filled with engineers, so we’ll need help
making use of the most current and innovative immunological techniques and
concepts. Using the right techniques and interpreting them in the right way is
critical,” said Collier. “And I hope to have immunology graduate students in
my lab, because there’s no better way to have that expertise and crosstalk
than to have people in multiple degree programs in the group.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

