

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Kaganov Gift Fuels Collaborations in Pulmonary Medicine Research

November 26, 2019

A 2017 gift from Alan and Carol Kaganov has jumpstarted new research and
collaborative initiatives aimed at improving lung disease outcomes

A single road separates Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering from the
ever-growing Duke University Medical Center, and according to Google Maps, the
walk between the two locations typically takes less than eight minutes. Duke
engineers and physicians have long capitalized on this proximity, pursuing
collaborative research on topics including cardiology, medical device design
and even cancer research.

But in 2017, a generous gift from the late Duke Engineering alumnus Alan L.
Kaganov, E’60, MBA, MS, ScD and his wife, Carol, provided support for
physician-engineer teams to pursue a new avenue of research
projects––specifically those involving the diagnosis, treatment and outcomes
of lung diseases.

The Kaganovs’ $3 million commitment launched two programs: The Kaganov
Research Initiative in Pulmonary Medicine and Engineering and the Alan L. and
Carol M. Kaganov BioDesign Fellowship.

Launched in Fall 2017, the Kaganov Research Initiative supported
collaborations targeting lung diseases, with a particular focus on pulmonary
fibrosis, which affects more than 100,000 people in the United States each
year. Pulmonary fibrosis occurs when lung tissue becomes injured; as the
damage increases the lungs become scarred and stiff, making it harder for
patients to breathe. There is currently no cure for pulmonary fibrosis, and
physicians often have difficulty identifying the underlying cause of the
illness. In these cases, the disease is labeled idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.

Since the initiative’s launch, it has supported numerous research projects,
including two led by Brent Hoffman, an assistant professor in biomedical
engineering, and Dr. Scott Palmer, a professor and vice chair for research in
the Department of Medicine.

A pioneer in the new field of mechanobiology, Hoffman studies how physical
forces affect cell behavior, while Dr. Palmer is an expert in fibrosis and
transplant research. Combining their respective knowledge, their first project
involved the development of sensors that glow in response to mechanical
forces, allowing the measurement the force on cells in a model airway. Their
second project used similar sensors to explore the effects of the chemical
diacetyl, which triggers the generation of specific molecules, called DAMPs,
on cell contractility. These DAMPs, or damage-associated molecular patterns,
are commonly seen in airway diseases like fibrosis.

“It has been a pleasure to collaborate with Brent and bring his expertise in
biophysical chemistry and engineering background to bear on the problem of
lung fibrosis,” said Palmer. “Together we are growing the understanding of how
cell activation by biological mediators and mechanical forces works
synergistically to drive the development of lung fibrosis.”

“Dr. Palmer and I had not met before the Kaganov Initiative, but the program
really catalyzed us into bringing together our two very disparate areas of
expertise,” said Hoffman. “That led to the generation of these exciting new
ideas about the mechanics behind the disease and how fibrosis works, and I
don’t think that would have happened without the impetus of the Kaganov
grant.”

“The Kaganov gift has been very successful at initiating new collaborations
between faculty in the Schools of Engineering and Medicine,” said George
Truskey, senior associate dean in the Pratt School of Engineering and the
Goodson Professor of Biomedical Engineering. “Prior to this gift there were
few interactions with pulmonary medicine. Now we have a number of faculty
taking some exciting approaches to treat pulmonary diseases, particularly
idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.”

In addition to these research opportunities, the Kaganov Initiative sponsors
symposia that highlight Duke efforts to combat pulmonary diseases, bringing
together experts to discuss topics spanning lung biomechanics, therapeutic
advances, transplant research and regenerative medicine.

“Dr. and Mrs. Kaganov’s gift was very thoughtful. Not only has the gift
enabled new research collaborations, it has also allowed us to hold events
that build awareness of the unmet needs in pulmonary medicine,” said Donna
Crenshaw, executive director of Duke MEDx, an initiative to enhance the ties
between engineering and medicine. “These events – symposia, and seminars by
visiting speakers – also grow the research community at the intersection of
pulmonary medicine and engineering by creating opportunities for students,
staff and faculty from the different disciplines to meet and share ideas.”

Supported by a $1 million endowment, the Kaganov BioDesign Fellowship partners
undergraduates in Duke Engineering with clinicians in the School of Medicine
to design biomedical tools that can address issues with respiratory function,
disease diagnosis and treatment.

“Thanks to Alan and Carol’s support, our students have a chance to develop
solutions to real clinician-derived problems, which increases their awareness
of health care issues in the field and creates a pipeline of future leaders in
biomedical engineering design,” said Ravi Bellamkonda, Vinik Dean of the Pratt
School of Engineering.

“The gift from the Kaganov family was innovative in its focus and has already
led to great insights into engineering solutions to greater discovery of the
biology of pulmonary disease as well as opportunities for improved diagnostics
for idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, a particular interest of Dr. Kaganov,” said
Dr. Geoff Ginsburg, the director of Duke MEDx. “We are grateful for the
opportunity it has provided for MEDx to support the deep exploration of lung
diseases and believe this is an important paradigm to catalyze new ideas for
investigation between Duke Engineering and Duke School of Medicine.”

The Kaganovs have a record of generosity to Duke Engineering, with previous
gifts that include an endowed professorship in engineering currently held by
Duke BME Chair Ashutosh Chilkoti, a scholarship that offers more than $300,000
in support for nearly 20 BME undergraduates over the last twenty years, and a
conference room in the Fitzpatrick Center for Interdisciplinary Engineering,
Medicine and Applied Sciences, as well as continued support through the
Engineering Annual Fund.

Dr. Kaganov passed away at the age of 80 on February 2, 2019 after a long
battle with pulmonary fibrosis. Over the course of his career, Kaganov helped
develop treatments for conditions including heart, peripheral vasculature,
spine and urologic disease, and he was granted 15 US patents. In addition to
his role as a successful venture capitalist in health care for two decades,
Kaganov worked as a project engineer, research and development director, CEO
and board chairman. He served on Pratt School of Engineering’s Board of
Visitors, and he was named a Distinguished Alumnus in 2005.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

