

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Kam Leong Named a Fellow of the National Academy of Inventors

December 10, 2013

Kam Leong, the James B. Duke professor of biomedical engineering at Duke
University’s Pratt School of Engineering, has been named a fellow of the
National Academy of Inventors (NAI).

Founded in 2010, the NAI recognizes academic inventors for their prolific
spirit of innovation in creating or facilitating outstanding inventions that
have made a tangible impact on the quality of life, economic development and
the welfare of society. This year’s list includes 143 innovators, representing
94 universities and governmental and non-profit research institutes, who
together hold more than 5,600 U.S. patents.

The invention that Leong is best known for stems from his time as a post-
doctoral fellow at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). Together
with his mentor Robert Langer, the David H. Koch Institute professor of
chemical engineering, Leong was instrumental in developing the brain cancer
treatment Gliadel, a controlled-release therapy that delivers the drug
carmustine directly into a tumor site after surgical removal. The invention
evolved from the lab’s work in developing biodegradable polyanhydrides as a
novel drug carrier—only the second class of biodegradable polymers approved by
the Food and Drug Administration.

While at Johns Hopkins University, where he served on the faculty from 1986 to
2006, Leong developed a controlled-release tumor vaccine that uses paraffin-
embedded tissue fragments made from a patient’s own cancer and
immunoadjuvants. This personalized “self-vaccine” causes no side effects.
Known as AFTVac (autologous formalin-fixed tumor vaccine), the technology is
licensed to Cell-Medicine, Inc. in Japan, and has treated more than 300
Japanese patients with glioblastoma multiforme tumors since 2007. While the
invention is not a cure, it provides patients with invaluable additional
months of life, given that the median survival rate for the disease is only
around one year.

In total, Leong is the holder of 39 patents, including inventions such as
biodegradable foams for cell transplantation, electroactive scaffolding for
growing organic tissues, and a method for delivering nucleic acid vaccines by
mouth. For the latter invention, recent experiments have demonstrated the
possible treatment of hemophilia in a mouse model by inducing cells in the
body to produce coagulation factor through orally delivered DNA nanoparticles.

Leong, along with the other NAI fellows, will be inducted by Deputy U.S.
Commissioner for Patents Andy Faile from the United States Patent and
Trademark Office during the 3rd Annual Conference of the National Academy of
Inventors on March 7, 2014, in Alexandria, Va. Academic inventors and
innovators that were elected fellows by the NAI Fellows Selection Committee
were nominated by their peers for outstanding contributions to innovation in
areas such as patents and licensing, innovative discovery and technology,
significant impact on society, and support and enhancement of innovation.

Included in the 2013 class are 26 presidents and senior leadership of research
universities and non-profit research institutes, 69 members of the National
Academies (IOM,NAS,NAE), five inductees of the National Inventors Hall of
Fame, six recipients of the U.S. National Medal of Technology and Innovation,
two recipients of the U.S. National Medal of Science and nine Nobel Laureates,
among other major awards and distinctions.

This honor is the second such distinguished award that Leong has earned this
year, having been elected to the National Academy of Engineering this past
February.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

