

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Kathy Nightingale Receives Joseph H. Holmes Basic Science Pioneer Award

March 22, 2022

Award recognizes individuals who have significantly contributed to the growth
and development of diagnostic ultrasound

Kathy Nightingale, the Theo Pilkington Distinguished Professor of Biomedical
Engineering at Duke University, received the Joseph H. Holmes Basic Science
Pioneer Award from the American Institute of Ultrasound in Medicine at their
2022 annual convention.

The special award was established to recognize researchers who have
significantly contributed to the growth and development of diagnostic
ultrasound. The award was created in 1982 to honor Joseph H. Holmes who
studied how ultrasound could be used to characterize tissue and to diagnose
polycystic kidney disease and orthopedics.

As a key figure in Duke Biomedical Engineering’s ultrasound group, Nightingale
was a pioneer of the development of Acoustic Radiation Force Impulse (ARFI)
imaging, which uses ultrasound to assess the elasticity of target tissues. As
a graduate student at Duke, Nightingale showed how high-intensity ultrasound
pulses could be used to differentiate solid lesions from cysts. Nightingale
and her team also designed the algorithms and pulse sequences that form the
basis of shear wave elasticity imaging (SWEI).

Although Nightingale initially explored how this technique could be used to
characterize breast lesions as benign or malignant, her lab was a fundamental
driver of the development of shearwave imaging to quantify liver stiffness.
Her team was the first to demonstrate SWEI quantification of liver stiffness
in humans _in vivo_ , a technique that is now used for staging liver fibrosis.
These imaging tools have been so successful that they have been able replace
invasive and uncomfortable liver biopsy procedures for many patients.
Nightingale is now pursuing projects that explore how the imaging modality
could be used to guide prostate cancer biopsies and focal therapies, and to
diagnose muscular dystrophies and myopathies and to assess these patient’s
responses to treatments.

Nightingale is a fellow of the National Academy of Inventors and the American
Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering.

“I am truly honored and humbled to have been selected for this award,” says
Nightingale. “To have our work recognized in this way supports the impact that
it has had which is both gratifying and highly motivating. It would not have
been possible without the support and effort of the many people comprising the
research team in the Duke Ultrasound group and our wonderful clinical
collaborators in the Duke Medical Center.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

