

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Kenneth Hall Named Editor of ASME Journal of Turbomachinery

June 26, 2015

The journal publishes the best technical papers worldwide that advance the
state-of-the-art of turbomachinery technology related to gas turbine engines.

Professor Kenneth C. Hall, the Julian Francis Abele Professor of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science in the Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School of
Engineering at Duke University, has been named the Editor of ASME¹s Journal of
Turbomachinery for a five-year term beginning July 1, 2015.

The journal publishes the best technical papers worldwide that advance the
state-of-the-art of turbomachinery technology related to gas turbine engines.
The broad scope of the subject matter includes the fluid dynamics, heat
transfer and aeromechanics technology associated with the design, analysis,
modeling, test and performance of turbomachinery.

Emphasis is placed on axial and centrifugal compressors, turbines, and their
related gas-path technologies. Some specific topic areas include: compressor
and turbine blading design, film cooling and heat transfer phenomena,
compressor stall, surge and operability issues, computational fluid dynamics,
aeromechanical instabilities, boundary layer development, measurement
techniques, and cavity and leaking flows to name just a few.

Hall is an expert in computational unsteady aerodynamics and aeromechanics of
turbomachinery, with additional research interests in helicopter aerodynamics,
flapping flight, and dynamics. He is a Fellow of both the American Society of
Mechanical Engineers and the American Institute of Aeronautics and
Astronautics.

"This is the most significant journal in turbomachinery," said Earl Dowell,
the William Holland Hall Professor and chair of mechanical engineering. "There
is a turbomachine, better known as a jet engine, in virtually every commercial
airplane and in every power plant in the world. This selection of Kenneth
reinforces the claim that Duke MEMS arguably offers the best place in the
world for research on these essential machines, particularly in unsteady
aerodynamics, aeroacoustics and aeroelasticity."

Learn more at aeroelasticity.pratt.duke.edu.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

