

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Laser Love

February 6, 2019 | by Miranda Volborth

ECE student Aditi Dighe’s lifelong fascination with photonics may lead to a
patent as well as a PhD

Aditi Dighe’s eyes sparkle and she beams a megawatt smile as she remembers how
she fell in love—with lasers.

She was first introduced to lasers by India’s Department of Atomic Energy, as
part of a “Science Days” event at her primary school. Dighe was one of lucky
handful of students who got to look behind the scenes at a research facility
where scientists demonstrated some of the many uses for lasers. She saw how
they were used in welding, and how they could cut beautiful, intricate
patterns in different materials. To young Dighe, lasers were as close to magic
as anything she had ever seen. And when she was nine years old and suffered a
chlorine infection across her face that left her skin devoid of pigment, the
laser treatment that she later underwent to restore her skin tone wasn’t
scary. She didn’t mind the shallow furrows the lasers engraved on her skin, so
entranced was she by the way the newly grafted skin pigments, activated by UV
light, blossomed and spread across her face over the course of several months.

“My laser love grew stronger,” Dighe laughs. “I know that sounds silly, but it
was super cool, that my skin changed colors because of the laser. It changed
my life.”

As a college student, Dighe was accepted for a summer internship in the lab of
Duke ECE professor Steven Cummer. Her perception of Duke ECE—small and
friendly, and competitive in the field—was one part of what spurred her to
apply to its PhD program after she finished her undergraduate degree in
electrical engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)
Gandhinagar. The other part was the reputation of Professor Nan Jokerst, whose
fascination with photonics equals Dighe’s.

Now a sixth-year PhD candidate in Jokerst’s lab, Dighe has channeled her
passion into a project that could result in a patent as well as a PhD.

Dighe works on lab-on-a-chip applications, which, as their name suggests, move
traditional lab processes onto the surface of a chip. Apart from their use in
medical diagnostics, the devices hold potential for applications like rapid
chemical analysis and environmental monitoring.

Duke ECE professor Richard Fair has been working on these devices since the
early 2000s, and has learned to control microdroplets with electric currents,
directing them to specific points on a silicon chip. But at that point the
characteristics of the resulting configuration and constitution of droplets
still must be observed using cameras, microscopes or other bulky lens setups.

Dighe’s lab-on-a-chip design is different. A tiny fluorescence detector of her
own creation is bonded to one of the two plates between which Fair’s system is
sandwiched; the detector senses light emitted by fluorescent tracking
particles called fluorophores in the solution, and eliminates the need for
extra optical equipment for sensing.

> The detector senses light emitted by fluorescent tracking particles called
> fluorophores in the solution, and eliminates the need for extra optical
> equipment for sensing.

The photodetector produces a current that corresponds with that level of
intensity of light emitted by the fluorophores—high current for a high
intensity light, low current for a low intensity light.

When Dighe has hammered out a predictive model for how different
concentrations of solution emit different levels of light, a single
measurement of current should be able to tell her the concentration of the
sample she’s investigating. It takes only a tenth of a millisecond to get the
necessary measurement; it’s essentially instantaneous. And in addition to
saving time, the tiny scale of the lab-on-a-chip platform saves money on
reagents used for testing.

The remaining challenge, said Dighe, is designing the experimental setup
necessary to automate the entire process. She’s still figuring out exactly how
to both direct the droplets and measure the fluorescence intensity for
predictable, repeatable performance.

When she manages those tasks, Dighe said, they’ll have taken another step
towards a true lab on a chip.

Dighe presented her first, long-awaited paper on her project at IEEE Sensors
2018 in Delhi in November, then followed up by presenting a poster on her work
at IIT Mandi, where her mentor was delivering a keynote at the International
Workshop on Nano/Micro 2D/3D Fabrication.

Jokerst, who directs the Shared Materials Instrumentation Facility (SMIF) at
Duke, teaches a course on nanotechnology via a free online platform called
Coursera, which has proven to be hugely popular with young people in India—an
outcome that Dighe, who has done video demonstrations of a plasma-enhanced
chemical vapor deposition system and electron beam evaporation for the
course—finds quite gratifying.

“As a student I did not have easy access to a cleanroom,” said Dighe. “For
many students who are taking introductory courses in chemical engineering or
electrical engineering, to see a video like that—it’s a great learning
opportunity.”

If they’re as lucky as Dighe, the simple introduction could grow into a great,
career-shaping love.

More News From ECE

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

