

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Fungal Spores Harness Physics to Launch Themselves

July 26, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

Evolution has shaped fungal spores to aim and power their launch with merging
water droplets

Researchers from Duke University have uncovered the detailed mechanics of the
way fungal spores have evolved to harness the power of merging water droplets
to launch in a uniform manner.

Fungal spores grow on the ends of long, thin tethers called sterigmas. Once
mature, the spores must break away and be transported to a new location to
grow. Some spores rely on animals or their own power to travel. Others—called
ballistospores—are actively ejected from the surface of the parent organism.
And in the case of some fungi, water droplets provide the liftoff.

More than a century ago, Reginald Buller discovered that a spherical drop of
water that forms close to a spore is crucial to the spore’s dispersal. Dubbed
the “Buller drop,” its merging with another lens-shaped drop on the spore
causes the spore to break away from its tether.

“The spores are launched with a massive amount of force in a specific
direction, almost like a cannon,” said Chuan-Hua Chen, associate professor of
mechanical engineering and materials science at Duke. “And the ballistospore
cannon has evolved to shoot directly away from the fungus to give the spores
the best chance of escape.”

While this phenomenon had been explained energetically, the detailed
mechanisms—particularly the nearly uniform direction of the spores’
launches—have remained a mystery. In a paper published in the Journal of the
Royal Society Interface on July 26, Chen and his colleagues use high-speed
cameras and an inkjet printer to solve the riddle.

The major hurdle to uncovering the details of how water droplets launch these
spores has been the speed of the action. While it takes several minutes for
water droplets to grow large enough for takeoff, the event itself takes less
than a microsecond.

“And unfortunately a microsecond is also the time resolution for most high-
speed cameras,” Chen said. “So while researchers made some progress in
capturing the overall coalescence process, the detailed mechanism was still
not clear.”

The problem was one of scale and timing, as the duration of the launch is
proportional to the size of the Buller drop, which is tiny when it comes to
fungal spores.

To sidestep this issue, Chen and his team constructed their own larger
“spores” by cutting a polystyrene sphere into a spore-shaped particle and
carefully orienting the model spore on a flat surface. Then they used an ink-
jet printer to build a larger Buller drop directly next to their artificial
spore. With the ability to precisely control the drop’s size, and thus its
takeoff speed and timing, the team could catch the launch with high
resolution.

When they looked at the film, the details of the launching mechanism became
apparent. When the spherical Buller drop joins the second drop that is spread
on the spore, the drops lose surface area and release surface energy,
providing the momentum for the launch.

As the newly merged drop moves along the flat face of the spore, the drop
motion quickly aligns with the orientation of the spore’s flat face. The
merged drop exerts friction on the spore, pulling it away from the sterigma.
The direction of launching is guided by the spore’s flat face, which is along
the same direction as the slender sterigma.

“The release of energy is so rapid that it accelerates the entire system with
a million Gs, but there’s so much air drag that the spore still only travels a
few millimeters at most. That’s why it’s so important for the spores to shoot
directly away from the fungus,” Chen said. “By explaining the mechanism
underlying the nearly perfect launching directionality, our work has finally
shed light on this century-old puzzle.”

This work was supported by the National Science Foundation (CBET-1236373,
DMR-1121107) and the National Institute of Health (T32-GM008555). Additional
support came from the National Science Foundation (IOS-1439850), the Human
Frontier Science Program and the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research
Council of Canada.

“Asymmetric drop coalescence launches fungal ballistospores with
directionality.” Fangjie Liu, Roger L. Chavez, S. N. Patek, Anne Pringle,
James J. Feng and Chuan-Hua Chen. Journal of the Royal Society Interface,
2017. DOI: 10.1098/rsif.2017.0083

###

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

