

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Lessons from the Great American Eclipse

August 23, 2017 | By Michaela Kane

CEE’s Mark Borsuk discusses how the 2017 eclipse challenged our engineered
systems

On August 21, millions of people across the United States turned their
attention skyward to watch as the moon eclipsed the sun, bringing cities
stretching from Salem, Oregon to Charleston, South Carolina into two minutes
of darkness.

This was the first time since 1918 that a total eclipse has crossed the
continental US, and the historic event also drew an historic migration of
people, causing massive traffic jams and travel delays as people scrambled to
get to and from their viewing destinations.

Although traffic from the rush to view the eclipse was an expected issue for
those within the path of totality, other less-discussed problems were also
anticipated: in the arid environments of the West Coast, park rangers were
wary of an increased incidence of forest fires as people set up camp in
Oregon, Idaho and Wyoming after a particularly dry summer. Solar energy
production also dipped on Monday, requiring states to rely on other energy
sources to make up the difference, and cell phone service was spotty or even
nonexistent as people congregated together.

For Mark Borsuk, an associate professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering
(CEE) at Duke University, the logistical issues underscored the importance for
our engineered systems to be able to adapt to the demands from sporadic,
atypical events like the eclipse. A new _Risk and Resilience program_ offered
through the CEE department aims to address these issues by teaching students
to anticipate and design for extreme events, like natural disasters, public
health crises, or even social gatherings such as those occurring this past
year in association with marches on Washington or the eclipse. As a co-creator
of the program, Borsuk answered a few questions about what engineers can learn
from the Great American Eclipse.

**How do the logistical issues surrounding the eclipse relate to your field of
risk and resilience engineering?**

The eclipse represented an unprecedented shock to our infrastructure system.
The mass movement of people from all over the country toward the path of
totality created a set of traffic patterns that were distinctly different from
both the usual daily commuting routes as well as from typical seasonal or
holiday migrations. And unlike for other focused gatherings, such as a
sporting event or concert, it was unpredictable how many people would travel,
where exactly they would go, or what route they could take. Thus, emergency
management needed to make preparations that were robust to different emerging
patterns and situations. This is very similar to how engineers need to develop
designs that are robust for a future rendered largely unpredictable by a
changing climate, emergent technology, and a changing political landscape.

More predictable, but equally unprecedented, was the impact of the eclipse on
solar energy production. California, for example, lost about 3,400 megawatts
of output according to the California Independent System Operator (ISO).
Fortunately, they had planned ahead and were able to tap into natural gas-
fired power plants and hydroelectric dams to make up the difference.

**What can engineers learn from this event to better prepare for the future?**

The eclipse provided a kind of dress rehearsal for the California ISO in how
to handle problems that may arise as they attempt to integrate an increasing
number of intermittent renewable energy sources into the state’s power supply.
Similarly, the handling of unpredictable traffic patterns as people traveled
to the path of totality may provide some practice for coastal evacuations that
are likely to become increasingly common under climate change.

**Is there an event that challenges our infrastructure/ engineered systems in
a way that is comparable to the 2017 eclipse?**

The Women’s March in Washington earlier this year was somewhat similar in the
unpredictability of the turnout, timing, and transport of participants.
Fortunately, in both cases, a combination of advanced planning and participant
goodwill allowed each to proceed without major incidents or problems.

**Do engineers incorporate the data from these large events into their
modeling for future projects? Is this something you would address in your new
risk and resilience program?**

> Too often, our limited experience causes us to be overconfident in our
> predictions for the future, and extreme events serve to remind us that we
> may be missing important factors or the possibility of multiple factors
> coinciding.

The occurrence of rare events can infrequently be handled like typical data.
They are essentially outliers that have no precedent and very little specific
information for future prediction. Their main value is in expanding the scope
of what planners and engineers consider to be within the realm of possibility.

In the context of quantitative risk assessment, this translates to wider
probability distributions on model variables and more careful consideration of
correlations. We will be considering such issues in my new fall course, CEE
690: Risk and Resilience in Engineering.

The next solar eclipse to cross the United States won’t occur until 2024, but
until then engineers will have plenty of time to prepare for any logistical
issues that may arise. To see how students, staff and visitors at Duke
University observed the eclipse from Durham, check out more photos below!

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

