

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Let's Learn Quantum

June 21, 2019

A week-long summer school led by Duke ECE professor Kenneth Brown explored
topics in quantum information for beginners and experts alike

Over the course of a week at Duke University, participants in the Software-
tailored Architectures for Quantum Co-design (STAQ) Summer School reviewed
quantum computation basics, learned about advanced circuit models and trapped
ion technology, and still managed to carve out time for a scavenger hunt in
Duke Gardens.

The 75 participants represented more than 40 different institutions of higher
education, government and industry. Lecturers from Duke, the University of
Chicago, Tufts University, the University of New Mexico and IBM ensured that
all summer schoolers came away with a deeper knowledge of the field of quantum
computing, regardless of their level of experience.

> “The goal of the summer school is to provide an introduction to students who
> are unfamiliar with quantum computation and to broaden the perspective of
> graduate students working in the field.”
>
> KENNETH BROWN, Duke eCE professor and STAQ director

“The goal of the summer school is to provide an introduction to students who
are unfamiliar with quantum computation and to broaden the perspective of
graduate students working in the field,” said electrical and computer
engineering associate professor and STAQ director Kenneth Brown. The STAQ
project and Summer School are supported by the National Science Foundation.

David Ariyibi, who just graduated from Williams College with a double major in
mathematics and computer science, plans on applying to graduate school in the
next few years. His advisor recommended exploring quantum computing and
quantum information because of the field’s potential for growth—and its
potential to attract funding.

“As I was considering his advice, I saw the application for the summer school
in a department email, so I decided to apply,” said Ariyibi. “The lectures
have given me a lot of perspective and insight into the field and how to
continue learning after the program is over. While there is still a lot for me
to become familiar with, especially due to my lack of background in physics, I
feel really grounded in what is possible and where I can see myself going
forward.”

> "I was excited to learn, especially from experts in these areas.”
>
> NICOLE GREENE, PhD Candidate in physics, UC Berkeley

Nicole Greene, a STAQ collaborator and a PhD student in physics at the
University of California, Berkeley, came to the program with more knowledge
than Ariyibi, but said she still learned a lot from her experience. “I've
already had exposure to basic quantum information concepts, and also to the
different platforms people use—trapped ions, super conducting qubits, et
cetera,” said Greene. “I haven’t, however, taken any coursework in near-term
algorithms like QAOA or error correction, so I was excited to learn,
especially from experts in these areas.”

Program administrator Margo Ginsberg said that the number of applicants—300 of
them—was both surprising and encouraging to the event’s organizers, who were
able to scale the program up to accommodate 50 percent more participants than
were originally planned for.

Duke plans to host a STAQ Summer School again next year with a similar
introductory track and a new advanced track on noise and algorithms, said
Brown. Registration is expected to open in January 2020, and those interested
should watch STAQ's website for details.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

