

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Lighting Up Plants’ Metabolisms for a Better Energy Future

August 24, 2015 | By Ken Kingery

New grant will use tagged nanoprobes for monitoring plants’ behavior to help
researchers optimize biofuel production

Researchers from disparate corners of Duke University are joining forces to
peer into the most basic processes of life to discover what makes plants be
all that they can be for our nation's energy future.

With the support of a three-year, $2 million grant from the Department of
Energy (DOE), researchers will literally shine light on the molecules that
help increase plant growth into biofuels.

In the past, researchers have had to guess and check to discover what
nutrients and environmental conditions different plants need to function at
their highest levels of production. With the support of the new grant, they
will be taking a more active approach by detecting relevant nucleic acids
(mRNA, microRNA), using light-emitting nanoparticles.

These nanoparticles will tag nucleic acids and shine so that researchers can
monitor and image the expression of genes relevant to plant biomass production
at high spatial and temporal resolution. The knowledge provided by this
nanoprobe technology will provide critical insights into novel ways to
influence plant growth to increase biomass for renewable energy sources.

“These nanoprobes only light up when they find the molecule they’re designed
to attach to,” said Tuan Vo-Dinh, the R. Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Professor
of Biomedical Engineering, director of the Fitzpatrick Institute for Photonics
at Duke and lead investigator of the project. “This will give us the
submicron-scale resolution and real-time tracking capabilities needed to
better understand the cellular factory mechanisms in plants. This will help
improve production of biomass so that bioenergy sources of fuels may become a
larger part of America’s drive toward energy independence.”

When scientists use plants to achieve a goal, they’re taking advantage of the
plants’ molecular factories. By tracking the flow and activity of the
biological cogs and gears that make these cellular systems work, researchers
can investigate what variables make them most active and productive.

The project draws on many Duke strengths, including the Pratt School of
Engineering’s work in photonics and nanobiotechnology and the Trinity School
of Arts and Science’s research in molecular biology and plant genomics.
Joining Vo-Dinh as co-investigators on the grant are Zhen-Ming Pei, associate
professor of biology, and Tai-Ping Sun, professor of biology.

Also joining the team is Kenneth Kemner, molecular environmental science group
leader at Argonne National Laboratory, making the team multi-institutional
between academia and the Federal laboratory system as well as
multidisciplinary.

“The proposed molecular nanoprobe technology represents a major innovation
that has a strong transformative potential in the investigation of plant cells
for biofuels,” said Vo-Dinh. “It will lead to a new type of multifunctional
biosensing and imaging that will produce multiplex and quantitative outputs to
help us better understand and improve the prediction of cellular function in
plant growth critical to the nation’s bio-energy research programs. This
project will be of great benefit to DOE biofuel research and development and
has a great potential to be scalable and translatable to many other areas
including medical and environment applications.”

The project will contribute to the continuing expansion of the Duke University
Energy Initiative, a university-wide, interdisciplinary collaboration focused
on advancing an accessible, affordable, reliable and clean energy system. The
Initiative reaches across business, engineering, environment, law, policy, and
the arts and sciences to educate tomorrow’s energy innovators, develop new
solutions through research, and improve energy decisions by engaging business
and government leaders.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

