

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Lighting Up Energy Savings

April 5, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

Duke Engineering student's bright idea could save university millions

It’s not every Duke student who has an opportunity to save the university tens
of millions of dollars. That is, however, exactly what Anuj Thakkar is trying
to do.

And he’s doing it with light bulbs.

“I’ve always been passionate about saving energy and protecting the
environment,” said Thakkar, a first-year student in the Pratt School of
Engineering who received a coveted Benjamin N. Duke Scholarship. “I did a
project in high school to analyze all the different ways we could save energy,
and light bulbs turned out to have the best return on investment by far.”

LED lighting is a relatively new technology that uses less energy than the
traditional fluorescent lights found in the ceilings of most schools and
office buildings. Thanks to a few grants Thakkar secured with his team, his
high school installed new LED lighting throughout the building for an
estimated savings of $60,000-$70,000 over 13 years.

When Thakkar set foot on campus last fall, he wasn’t surprised to see that
Duke’s buildings still have fluorescent tube lighting as well. LED tubes are
not always compatible with existing infrastructure, and few facilities have
looked into making the change.

> Read "Solar Shouldn't Be Businesses' First Priority," an op-ed by Anuj
> Thakkar, on Medium

It took Thakkar less than a week to ask to lead a team to analyze the
possibility of making the switch. With support from Lauren Shum, president of
the Duke Smart Home, Thakkar organized fellow first-year students Lara
Breitkreutz, Yutao Gong and Gouttham Chandrasekhar and sophomore Aashna
Aggarwal to do just that.

“President Brodhead was very supportive of the idea,” said Thakkar. “So was
Executive Vice President Trask—a few days after our conversation, he had LED
lights installed in his own office.”

A pilot project began to take shape with the help of Smart Home Director Jim
Gaston, Energy Data Analytics Lab Managing Director Kyle Bradbury at the Duke
University Energy Initiative and Associate Chief Information Officer John
Board.

Over Spring Break, the Duke Facilities team outfitted several classrooms in
Hudson Hall with new lights. Some classrooms have only a few new bulbs, with
slightly different shades of bulbs on the yellow-to-white spectrum. Other
rooms have had a complete switch. The goal is to make sure they provide
adequate lighting—and to see if anybody even really notices the change.

The pilot program will help narrow the choice down between a handful of
manufacturers and types of LED lights, as they range in compatibility, energy
use, light output, cost and color. Depending on the final choice, and thanks
to financial support from the Facilities Management Department, switching all
of Hudson Hall should save at least $180,000 in electricity costs over the
next 15 years.

Thakkar hopes to complete the pilot project before this summer. If it’s
successful, he hopes to work with Duke’s Facilities Management Department to
expand it campus-wide.

“It’s hard to give an accurate estimate on that kind of a scale with the
limited information I have available,” said Thakkar. “But if we did this
campus-wide, I think we could potentially save up to $55 million over the next
15 years.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

