

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Light and Nanoprobes Detect Early Signs of Infection

June 20, 2013 | by Richard Merritt

Duke University biomedical engineers and genome researchers have developed a
proof-of-principle approach using light to detect infections before patients
show symptoms.

The approach was demonstrated in human samples, and researchers are now
developing the technique for placement on a chip, which could provide fast,
simple and reliable information about a patient. A diagnostic device based on
this chip also could be made portable.

The researchers developed a silver-based nanoparticle that homes in on a
specific molecular marker that spills into the bloodstream at the first stages
of an infection. When light is aimed at the sample, the nanoparticle attached
to a molecular marker will reflect a distinct optical fingerprint.

"We have demonstrated for the first time that the use of these nanoprobes can
detect specific genetic materials taken from human samples," said Tuan Vo-
Dinh, the R. Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Distinguished Professor of Biomedical
Engineering at Duke's Pratt School of Engineering and director of The
Fitzpatrick Institute for Photonics at Duke. He is also a professor of
chemistry.

The results of the Duke experiments appear online in the journal Analytica
Chimica Acta. Hsin-Neng Wang, a post-doctoral fellow in Vo-Dinh's laboratory,
was the first author of the paper.

In this interdisciplinary project, the Vo-Dinh team collaborated closely with
scientists at Duke's Institute for Genome Sciences & Policy (IGSP) who have
developed a method of measuring the host's response to infection through RNA
profiling.

The research is supported by the National Institutes of Health, the Defense
Advanced Research Projects Agency, the Department of Defense and the Wallace
H. Coulter Foundation.

In the Duke experiments, the nanoprobes are used in conjunction with a
phenomenon first described in the 1970s known as surface-enhanced Raman
scattering (SERS). When light, usually from a laser, is shined on a sample,
the target molecule vibrates and scatters back in its own unique light, often
referred to as the Raman scatter. However, this Raman response is extremely
weak.

"When the target molecule is coupled with a metal nanoparticle or
nanostructure, the Raman response is greatly enhanced by the SERS effect –
often by more than a million times," said Vo-Dinh, who has been studying the
potential applications of SERS for decades.

"This important proof-of-concept study now paves the way for the development
of devices that measure multiple genome-derived markers that will assist with
more accurate and rapid diagnosis of infectious disease at the point of care,"
said Geoffrey Ginsburg, director of genomic medicine at the IGSP, executive
director of the Center for Personalized Medicine at Duke Medicine, and a
professor of medicine and pathology.

"This would guide care decisions that will lead to more effective treatment
and improved outcomes of antimicrobial therapy," Ginsburg said. "Point-of-care
diagnostics holds great promise to accelerate precision medicine and, more
importantly, help patients in limited-resource settings gain access to
molecular testing.”

Other members of the team were Pratt's Andrew Fales and IGSP's Aimee Zaas,
Christopher Woods and Thomas Burke.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

