

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Litchinitser, Collaborators Win Aspen Institute Italia Award 2020

May 8, 2020

Duke professor of electrical and computer engineering Natalia Litchinitser
belongs to a US-Italy team that has produced a “revolutionary” microlaser that
twists light

An international team of seven researchers from the US and Italy, including
Duke professor of electrical and computer engineering Natalia Litchinitser,
has won the fifth annual Aspen Institute Italia Award.

The Aspen Institute Italia Award honors scientific research in applied or
theoretical natural sciences, produced jointly by researchers from the US and
Italy, in keeping with the organization’s commitment to encouraging and
developing international leadership and transatlantic relations.

The winning team’s research, originally published in Science in 2016, created
an orbital angular momentum microlaser for use in next-generation, high-speed
optical communications systems.

The team developed a micrometer-sized semiconductor laser that exploits an
“exceptional quantum point,” and allows light to be twisted a number of times
at multiple frequencies. The resulting twisted beams of light can be used to
encode information sent via optical fiber and allows for a significant
increase in the amount of information transmitted at individual frequencies.

The collaborative research represents important progress in the physics and
technology of integrated semiconductor lasers, and has the potential to
revolutionize optical communication systems, according to a statement from
Aspen Institute Italia.

Litchinitser, a member of Duke ECE’s metamaterials research group, is noted
for her expertise in optical metamaterials, which manipulate the visible part
of the electromagnetic spectrum. Her current research focuses on topological
photonics, which seek to direct light around tight corners using tiny
waveguides that prevent photons from scattering.

## Related News

November 19, 2018

### Bending Light Around Tight Corners Without Backscattering Losses

March 27, 2018

### Natasha Litchinitser: Structuring Materials to Control Light

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

