

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Metastatic Cancer Gorges on Fructose in the Liver

April 26, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

Discovery of metabolic reprogramming in metastatic cancer could lead to new
therapies

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have demonstrated that metastatic
cancer cells can reprogram their metabolism to thrive in new organs.
Specifically, the research shows that cells originating from colorectal cancer
change their dietary habits to capitalize on the high levels of fructose often
found in the liver.

The finding offers both general and specific insights into new ways of
fighting metastatic cancer. It appears April 26 in the journal Cell
Metabolism.

Cancer becomes much more deadly once it spreads to different parts of the
body, yet treatments don’t take their location into account.

“Genetically speaking, colon cancer is colon cancer no matter where it goes,”
explained Xiling Shen, associate professor of biomedical engineering at Duke.
“But that doesn’t mean that it can’t respond to a new environment. We had a
hunch that such a response might not be genetic, but metabolic in nature.”

In the study, Shen and his colleagues found that certain metabolic genes
became more active in liver metastases than they were in the original primary
tumor or lung metastases. One group of metabolic genes stood out in
particular, those involved in the metabolism of fructose. This struck the
researchers because many Western diets are rich in fructose, which is found in
corn syrup and all types of processed foods.

“When cancer cells get to the liver, they’re like a kid in a candy store,”
said Shen. “They use this ample new energy supply to create building blocks
for growing more cancer cells.”

To feed on fructose, cancer cells need to produce more of an enzyme that
breaks down fructose, called ALDOB, a trick they can quickly learn from the
liver itself. Once the cancer cells figure out how to rewire themselves to
gorge on the fructose, they proliferate out of control and become unstoppable.

Besides providing an insight into how cancers thrive after metastasizing, this
discovery can lead to new therapies specifically targeting metastatic cells.
For example, Shen says that avoiding fructose by eating natural, non-processed
foods and providing drugs that block fructose metabolism could potentially
halt the growth of cancer that has spread to the liver from other organs. And
because new drugs targeting fructose metabolism have recently been developed
by pharmaceutical companies to treat metabolic diseases, such crossover
treatments may not be far away.

“Doctors can usually cut the primary tumor out,” said Shen. “What we need is a
way to stop cancers from growing in new locations, and understanding how
cancer cells adapt to their new home may add new weapons to our arsenal.”

This work was supported by (institution?) R21CA201963, the National Institutes
of Health (R35GM122465, U01 CA214300) and the National Science Foundation
(1511357, 1350659).

CITATION: “Aldolase B-Mediated Fructose Metabolism Drives Metabolic
Reprogramming of Colon Cancer Liver Metastasis.” Pengcheng Bu, Kai-Yuan Chen,
Kun Xiang, Christelle Johnson, Scott B Crown, Nikolai Rakhilin, Yiwei Ai,
Lihua Wang, Rui Xi, Inna Astapova, Yan Han, Jiahe Li, Bradley B Barth, Min Lu,
Ziyang Gao, Liwen Zhang, Mark Herman, David Hsu, Guo-Fang Zhang, Xiling Shen.
Cell Metabolism, 2018. DOI: 10.1016/j.cmet.2018.04.003

# # #

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

