

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Inexpensively Locating Friendly (and Unfriendly) Radio Waves

May 11, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

Passive method for locating and characterizing radio waves could lead to
cameras that can capture images using ambient radio waves

Electrical engineers at Duke University have devised a low-cost method for
passively locating sources of radio waves such as Wi-Fi and cellular
communication signals.

Their technique could lead to inexpensive devices that can find radio wave
devices like cellular phones or Wi-Fi emitters, or cameras that capture images
using the radio waves already bouncing all around us.

The results appear online on May 12 in the journal Optica.

“In this paper we achieved spectral images of microwave noise sources
themselves, which means we can locate radio and microwave sources, like
antennas, while simultaneously characterizing what frequencies they are
emitting over,” said Aaron Diebold, an electrical and computer engineering
research assistant at Duke, who led the research. “At optical frequencies,
that would be like getting a color image of a hot object like a stove burner.
While that is pretty simple optically, it takes different techniques in the
radio and microwave regime.”

Locating sources of these types of waves is already possible, but the
techniques and equipment required are complex. Such devices traditionally use
an array of many small, power-hungry antennae that cause these devices to
become bulky and expensive. And because radio waves are so much larger than
light waves, the methods used in optical frequencies are prohibitively complex
and would result in extremely large detectors and other machinery.

In the new paper, the researchers turn to metamaterials instead. Metamaterials
are synthetic materials composed of many individual engineered features, which
together produce properties not found in nature through their structure rather
than their chemistry. In this case, the metamaterial is a collection of
squares containing inlaid wires in specific shapes that can be dynamically
tuned to interact with radio waves passing through them.

By having some squares allow radio waves to pass through and others that block
them, the researchers can create what is known as a coded aperture.

“We use the different patterns to encode data into a single measurement, which
boosts the signal strength relative to what you would get with just a single,
small antenna,” said Mohammadreza Imani, a research scientist at Duke who will
be joining Arizona State University as an assistant professor in electrical
and computer engineering later this year. “We also use the metamaterials to
‘stamp’ the different frequencies of the data, which allows us to tease them
apart.”

To understand how a coded aperture boosts signal, consider the grade-school
experiment of looking at a solar eclipse by using a hole punched in cardboard
to create an image on the sidewalk. As anyone who has ever done this knows,
the smaller the hole, the sharper the detail of the eclipse. But a smaller
hole also makes it dimmer and harder to see.

The solution is to make many tiny pinholes to create an array of eclipses, and
then to use a computer to reconstruct them into a single image. This way you
get the sharpness of the tiny pinhole with the brightness of a large pinhole.
The key is in knowing the pattern of the holes—also known as the coded
aperture—which the researchers control with the metamaterials.

The metamaterials also modulate various frequencies differently as they pass
through the coded aperture, which allows the researchers to deduce the
frequencies of the waves being detected.

The researchers demonstrated the usefulness of this approach in the paper.
They first showed that they can “see” and identify the shape of radio waves
emitted by a smiley-face-shaped antenna. They then showed that their system
can work in the real world by locating radio wave sources in three dimensions
relative to one another.

The researchers plan to continue to refine their methods in the hope of
eventually being able to take “pictures” of objects and scenes with nothing
more than the radio waves bouncing off of them.

“Passive imaging occurs in situations where you don’t control the source, like
taking a photo using light from the sun or light bulbs,” said David R. Smith,
the James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer
Engineering at Duke. “At microwave frequencies, there are lots of signals
bouncing around constantly. These ambient RF waves could provide enough
illumination for a metasurface imager to reconstruct images using the
techniques described in this research.”

This research was supported by the Air Force Office of Scientific Research
(FA9550-18-1-0187).

CITATION: “Passive Microwave Spectral Imaging With Dynamic Metasurface
Apertures,” Aaron V. Diebold, Mohammadreza F. Imani, Thomas Fromenteze, Daniel
L. Marks, and David R. Smith. Optica, May 2020. DOI: 10.1364/OPTICA.386516

## Related News

August 06, 2018

### Ricocheting Radio Waves Monitor the Tiniest Movements in a Room

March 26, 2018

### Beyond Materials: From Invisibility Cloaks to Satellite Communications

May 28, 2015

### A Look Back on the Discovery of Metamaterials

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

