

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Historic $261 Million Distribution to Benefit Education, Research, Financial
Aid at Duke

November 13, 2019

Four-decade relationship with LORD Corporation leads to support for Duke
Engineering, student financial aid

_From Duke Today_

A four decade-long relationship with a foundation has led to a historic
distribution of $261 million to Duke University that will support science and
technology education and research at the Pratt School of Engineering as well
as financial aid for undergraduate students.

The recent sale of LORD Corporation, a privately-owned global manufacturing
company based in Cary, N.C., has triggered the distribution of more than $1
billion to foundations that support Duke and three other institutions, which
will share equally in the proceeds of the sale.

The foundations were established in the early 1980s as part of a visionary
estate plan developed by Thomas Lord, who led the family-owned company until
his death in 1989. The plan created a holding company, Jura Corporation, which
owned all of the voting stock and most of the non-voting stock of the LORD
Corporation, as well as four foundations that, in turn, owned a significant
part of Jura: the Lord Foundation of California, which supports the University
of Southern California; the Lord Foundation of Massachusetts, which supports
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; the Lord Foundation of North
Carolina, which supports Duke; and the Lord Foundation of Ohio, which supports
Cleveland Clinic.

With the acquisition of LORD Corporation by Parker Hannifin Corporation for
$3.675 billion, the four foundations each received a distribution of the
proceeds that will be used for education and research in science and
technology, and related purposes.

"The Lord Foundation's exceptional support for Duke will transform our efforts
to address the world's most intractable problems," said Duke President Vincent
E. Price. "From the foundation's earliest investments in our Pratt School of
Engineering to this truly visionary distribution, Tom Lord has left a lasting
legacy on Duke's campus, one that will continue to improve the lives of our
students, faculty, staff and those who benefit from their work, for many
decades to come."

Duke's $261 million distribution has been designated for the university's
endowment to provide a permanent source of support. It will be the largest
single outside contribution to the fund since the founding of the university
in 1924. The resulting income from that endowment will be allocated to several
strategic priorities: financial aid for Duke undergraduate students, interim
funding while private philanthropy is sought for the new Pratt School of
Engineering building under construction on West Campus, new unrestricted
support for programs and initiatives at the Pratt School, and continuing the
ongoing annual contributions that had come from the Lord Foundation, also to
the Pratt School.

"This is a transformative moment for Duke, for the Pratt School of Engineering
and for generations of students to come," said Ravi V. Bellamkonda, Vinik Dean
of Engineering. "In addition to expanding access to Duke's world-class
education, the Lord contribution will provide a powerful boost to engineering
research and our ambitious vision for reimagining engineering education. By
leveraging this investment to cultivate future engineering leaders and fuel
cross-campus research initiatives in health, computing, new materials and
environmental resilience, Duke will accelerate its leadership in engineering,
science and technology on a national and international scale."

Since its creation in 1984, the Lord Foundation of North Carolina has
contributed nearly $47 million toward the Pratt School’s education and
research initiatives. Its most recent awards of approximately $1.5 million a
year have supported Duke Engineering’s efforts to transform undergraduate
education by immersing students in real-world design projects from their first
year, providing extensive research and entrepreneurship opportunities, and
introducing co-curricular programs focused on ethical engineering and personal
resilience.

The foundation has also supported recruitment of new faculty in high-impact
research areas ranging from quantum computing to genomics to materials
science, contributing to a 30 percent increase in the school’s faculty and a
116 percent increase in research expenditures over the past decade. In 2019,
Duke Engineering posted $96 million in new research awards and its highest
national rankings in biomedical engineering, environmental engineering and
other fields.

Investing in Duke Engineering: The Lord Foundation of North Carolina

Read more »

## Related News

November 13, 2019

### Investing in Duke Engineering: The Lord Foundation of North Carolina

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

