

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Machine Learning Finds New Metamaterial Designs for Energy Harvesting

September 25, 2019 | By Ken Kingery

Design would enable thermophotovoltaic devices that convert waste heat to
electricity

Electrical engineers at Duke University have harnessed the power of machine
learning to design dielectric (non-metal) metamaterials that absorb and emit
specific frequencies of terahertz radiation. The design technique changed what
could have been more than 2000 years of calculation into 23 hours, clearing
the way for the design of new, sustainable types of thermal energy harvesters
and lighting.

The study was published online on September 16 in the journal Optics Express.

Metamaterials are synthetic materials composed of many individual engineered
features, which together produce properties not found in nature through their
structure rather than their chemistry. In this case, the terahertz
metamaterial is built up from a two-by-two grid of silicon cylinders
resembling a short, square Lego.

Adjusting the height, radius and spacing of each of the four cylinders changes
the frequencies of light the metamaterial interacts with.

Calculating these interactions for an identical set of cylinders is a
straightforward process that can be done by commercial software. But working
out the inverse problem of which geometries will produce a desired set of
properties is a much more difficult proposition.

Because each cylinder creates an electromagnetic field that extends beyond its
physical boundaries, they interact with one another in an unpredictable,
nonlinear way.

“If you try to build a desired response by combining the properties of each
individual cylinder, you’re going to get a forest of peaks that is not simply
a sum of their parts,” said Willie Padilla, professor of electrical and
computer engineering at Duke. “It’s a huge geometrical parameter space and
you’re completely blind -- there’s no indication of which way to go.”

One way to find the correct combination would be to simulate every possible
geometry and choose the best result. But even for a simple dielectric
metamaterial where each of the four cylinders can have only 13 different radii
and heights, there are 815.7 million possible geometries. Even on the best
computers available to the researchers, it would take more than 2,000 years to
simulate them all.

To speed up the process, Padilla and his graduate student Christian Nadell
turned to machine learning expert Jordan Malof, assistant research professor
of electrical and computer engineering at Duke, and Ph.D. student Bohao Huang.

Malof and Huang created a type of machine learning model called a neural
network that can effectively perform simulations orders of magnitude faster
than the original simulation software. The network takes 24 inputs -- the
height, radius and radius-to-height ratio of each cylinder -- assigns random
weights and biases throughout its calculations, and spits out a prediction of
what the metamaterial’s frequency response spectrum will look like.

First, however, the neural network must be “trained” to make accurate
predictions.

“The initial predictions won’t look anything like the actual correct answer,”
said Malof. “But like a human, the network can gradually learn to make correct
predictions by simply observing the commercial simulator. The network adjusts
its weights and biases each time it makes a mistake and does this repeatedly
until it produces the correct answer every time.”

To maximize the accuracy of the machine learning algorithm, the researchers
trained it with 18,000 individual simulations of the metamaterial’s geometry.
While this may sound like a large number, it actually represents just 0.0022
percent of all the possible configurations. After training, the neural network
can produce highly accurate predictions in just a fraction of a second.

Even with this success in hand, however, it still only solved the forward
problem of producing the frequency response of a given geometry, which they
could already do. To solve the inverse problem of matching a geometry to a
given frequency response, the researchers returned to brute strength.

Because the machine learning algorithm is nearly a million times faster than
the modeling software used to train it, the researchers simply let it solve
every single one of the 815.7 million possible permutations. The machine
learning algorithm did it in only 23 hours rather than thousands of years.

After that, a search algorithm could match any given desired frequency
response to the library of possibilities created by the neural network.

“We’re not necessarily experts on that, but Google does it every day,” said
Padilla. “A simple search tree algorithm can go through 40 million graphs per
second.”

The researchers then tested their new system to make sure it worked. Nadell
hand drew several frequency response graphs and asked the algorithm to pick
the metamaterial setup that would best produce each one. He then ran the
answers produced through the commercial simulation software to see if they
matched up well.

They did.

With the ability to design dielectric metamaterials in this way, Padilla and
Nadell are working to engineer a new type of thermophotovoltaic device, which
creates electricity from heat sources. Such devices work much like solar
panels, except they absorb specific frequencies of infrared light instead of
visible light.

Current technologies radiate infrared light in a much wider frequency range
than can be absorbed by the infrared solar cell, which wastes energy. A
carefully engineered metamaterial tuned to that specific frequency, however,
can emit infrared light in a much narrower band.

“Metal-based metamaterials are much easier to tune to these frequencies, but
when metal heats up to the temperatures required in these types of devices,
they tend to melt,” said Padilla. “You need a dielectric metamaterial that can
withstand the heat. And now that we have the machine learning piece, it looks
like this is indeed achievable.”

This research was supported by the Department of Energy (DESC0014372).

CITATION: “Deep Learning for Accelerated All-Dielectric Metasurface Design,”
Christian C. Nadell, Bohao Huang, Jordan M. Malof, and Willie J. Padilla.
Optics Express, Vol. 27, Issue 20, pp. 27523-27535 (2019). DOI:
10.1364/OE.27.027523

# # #

## Related News

May 01, 2018

### Dielectric Metamaterial is Dynamically Tuned by Light

January 27, 2017

### Absorbing Electromagnetic Energy While Avoiding the Heat

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

