

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Machine Learning Platform Identifies Activated Neurons in Real-Time

May 21, 2021 | Michaela Kane

Streamlined AI immediately and accurately maps activated neurons to help learn
how the brain works

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have developed an automatic process
that uses streamlined artificial intelligence (AI) to identify active neurons
in videos faster and more accurately than current techniques.

The technology should allow researchers to watch an animal’s brain activity in
real time, as they are behaving.

The work appears May 20 in Nature Machine Intelligence.

One of the ways researchers study the activity of neurons in living animals is
through a process known as two-photon calcium imaging, which makes active
neurons appear as flashes of light. Analyzing these videos, however, typically
requires a human circling every burst of intensity they see in a process
called segmentation. While this may seem straightforward, these bursts often
overlap in spaces where thousands of neurons are imaged simultaneously.
Analyzing just a five-minute video this way could take weeks or even months.

“People try to figure out how the brain works by recording the activity of
neurons as an animal does a behavior to study the relationship between the
two,” said Yiyang Gong, the primary author on the paper. “But manual
segmentation creates a big bottleneck and doesn’t allow researchers to see the
activation of the neurons in real-time.”

Gong, an assistant professor of biomedical engineering, and Sina Farsiu, a
professor of biomedical engineering, previously addressed this bottleneck in a
2019 paper, where they shared the development of a deep-learning platform that
maps active neurons as accurately as humans in a fraction of the time. But
because videos can be tens of gigabytes, researchers still have to wait hours
or days for them to process.

Now, the team is making their platform work in real-time.

“Our goal was to improve our approach to be more intelligent so it can target
and learn from the important data in the videos rather than parse through all
of the extra noise,” said Gong.

To make their approach more intelligent, the team developed signal processing
algorithms that pre-process the data before being analyzed by the neural
network. These algorithms help improve the signal-to-noise ratio and remove
the background fluctuations in the video, highlighting active neurons while
obscuring inactive neurons and other unneeded data.

The team also adapted their neural network to scan fewer layers, because it
doesn’t need as much data to learn how to accurately identify and segment the
activated neurons.

The result is a system that features an unusual upgrade. Not only is it an
order of magnitude faster than their previous work, it’s also slightly more
accurate.

Because their platform can highlight active neurons so quickly, researchers
can use the tool to detect neurons in real-time and examine how certain
activation patterns match animal behavior. Due to the tool’s usefulness in
neuroscience experiments, the team has made a version of the network available
online. (LINK PLS)

“Rather than wait until the end of an experiment, the speed of our network
allows us to learn things during the experiment,” said Gong. “We now have a
new potential to explore how different kinds of stimulation can affect
neuronal activation and animal behavior.”

The team is already exploring new ways to continue to improve their tool for
wider use.

“The algorithm can always use further optimization,” said Gong. “We’ve shown
that this works really well for the two-photon calcium imaging, but there are
a lot of different optical microscopes in neuroscience, and ultimately we’d
like to make a neural network that works for all of these imaging modalities.”

This work was supported by the BRAIN Initiative (NIH 1UF1-NS107678, NSF
3332147), the NIH New Innovator Program (1DP2-NS111505), the Beckman Young
Investigator Program, the Sloan Fellowship, and the Vallee Young Investigator
Program. The team also acknowledge Zhijing Zhu for early characterization of
the SUNS.

CITATION: “Segmentation of Neurons from Fluorescence Calcium Recordings Beyond
Real Time,” Yijun Bao, Somayyeh Soltanian-Zadeh, Sina Farsiu, Yiyang Gong.
Nature Machine Intelligence, May 20, 2021. DOI: 10.1038/s42256-021-00342-x

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

