

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Marcus Center for Cellular Cures at Duke to Tackle Autism, MS, Stroke

May 8, 2018

The center will expand upon past and current work at Duke funded by The Marcus
Foundation, including a recent study that used children's own cord blood cells
as an experimental therapy for autism and cerebral palsy

The Marcus Center for Cellular Cures at Duke University School of Medicine has
been established to bring together physicians and faculty across medicine and
engineering at Duke to develop cellular and biological therapies for autism,
cerebral palsy, stroke, and related brain disorders. The center is named to
recognize the generous support over a number of years from The Marcus
Foundation, an Atlanta-based philanthropic organization.

Mary E. Klotman, MD, dean of the School of Medicine, announced the launch of
the new center today and named Joanne Kurtzberg, MD, Jerome S. Harris
Professor of Pediatrics and director and chief scientific officer of the
Robertson Clinical and Translational Cell Therapy Program at Duke, as director
of the center. Ravi Bellamkonda, PhD, Vinik Dean of the Pratt School of
Engineering, and Geraldine Dawson, PhD, professor of Psychiatry and Behavioral
Sciences and director of the Duke Center for Autism and Brain Development,
were named associate directors of the center.

The center, in partnership with the Pratt School of Engineering at Duke, will
expand upon past and current work at Duke funded by The Marcus Foundation,
including a recent study led by Kurtzberg and Dawson that used children's own
cord blood cells as an experimental therapy for autism and cerebral palsy.

The new Marcus Center will focus on four areas:

  * Clinical trials to develop and evaluate cellular and tissue-based
    therapies
  * Learning to harness the body's own mechanisms used for cellular repair
  * Manufacturing and delivery of cells, tissues, and biomaterials
  * Creation of non-invasive imaging to monitor cell distribution and function
    inside the body.

“This center, enabled by the generosity of The Marcus Foundation, will allow
us to bring cellular therapies into 21st century medicine,” said Dr.
Kurtzberg. “It represents the culmination of over three decades of work at
Duke in transplantation and cellular biology, and it will be a catalyst to
continue to accelerate the translation of these discoveries into the clinic.”

Dawson noted, “There currently are no FDA-approved biomedical treatments for
autism. Our goal is to develop effective treatments that can significantly
improve outcomes for individuals with autism and other developmental
disorders.”

Bellamkonda added, “Duke engineers are excited to be a part of the new Marcus
Center and will help develop novel technologies for cell manufacturing and
scale-up, co-transplantation biomaterials designed to enhance cell survival
and phenotypic stability, and novel non-invasive imaging techniques to monitor
and optimize cell therapies and cures.”

Established by Bernie Marcus, the co-founder of The Home Depot, The Marcus
Foundation has a long-established interest in autism, stroke, cerebral palsy
and other neurological conditions, and in stem cell research. The foundation
focuses on biomedical research projects that are close to clinical application
that may bring novel therapies to bear on disorders without existing
treatments.

Visit the Marcus Center website

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

