

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Mechanical Engineering Student Named Gates-Cambridge Scholar

February 18, 2019

Jack Myhre's scholarship covers tuition and living expenses while completing a
graduate degree at the University of Cambridge

From _Duke Today_

Duke University senior and University Scholar Jack Myhre is among 34 U.S.
recipients selected for a Gates-Cambridge Scholarship, the university
announced Friday.

The scholarship covers a student’s tuition and living expenses while
completing a graduate degree at the University of Cambridge. Myhre, of
Buckhannon, West Virginia, is Duke’s 13th Gates-Cambridge Scholar.

> The Gates-Cambridge Scholarship program began in 2000 with a grant of $210
> million from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. The scholarships enable
> students from around the world to pursue a full-time postgraduate degree in
> the subject of their choosing.

The Gates-Cambridge Scholarship program began in 2000 with a grant of $210
million from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. The scholarships enable
students from around the world to pursue a full-time postgraduate degree in
the subject of their choosing. Scholars are chosen on the basis of their
intellect, leadership potential, commitment to improving the lives of others
and the academic fit with scholarship at Cambridge.

At Duke, Myhre is majoring in mechanical engineering with a minor in energy
engineering. He plans to pursue a master of philosophy in engineering for
sustainable development in the Department of Engineering at the University of
Cambridge.

Myhre has been active as Duke Engineering senior class president and
Engineering Student Government vice-president, a team leader for Duke
Motorsports and as captain of the rugby team. He studied abroad in both France
and New Zealand and spent two summers in Burundi interning as an engineer in a
hospital.

“I have known Jack for a while now—even before he came to Duke—and his
intellect, character, humility and devotion to others have equipped him to be
a formidable force for good in the world,” said Alex Hartemink, faculty
director of the Office of Undergraduate Scholars and Fellows and professor of
computer science and biology. “These are qualities all of us aspire to
demonstrate, and he will be an excellent representative of Duke University and
its Pratt School of Engineering."

Long term, Myhre hopes to bring sustainable energy engineering solutions to
areas of rapid development and growth, particularly sub-Saharan Africa where
he was raised and still considers home despite “a life characterized by travel
and shifting residences.”

Myhre hopes to use his time at Cambridge to develop skills that allow him to
make a difference in East Africa, making its growth be sustainable and not
detrimental to the people and land he loves.

More News from MEMS

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

