

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# MEDx Spurs Discovery at the Intersection of Medicine and Engineering

July 23, 2018 | By Mara Catherine Shurgot

Thanks to an innovative initiative now entering its third year, the proximity
between Duke University School of Medicine and the Pratt School of Engineering
is closer than ever

_From the Spring 2018 issue of Duke Med Alumni News_

_Photographs by Bruce Deboer_

According to Google Maps, the walking distance between Duke University School
of Medicine and the Pratt School of Engineering is 0.8 miles, or about 1,800
steps. You can cover it in less than 15 minutes.

Thanks to an innovative initiative now entering its third year, in terms of
collaboration, joint research, and shared goals, the proximity between the two
schools is even closer than that. The result is a fast-growing growing synergy
between medicine and engineering that is producing dramatic new advances on a
wide range of fronts.

Aristotle's aphorism "The whole is greater than the sum of its parts"
describes the impetus behind MEDx—an initiative launched in 2015 by then-
School of Medicine Dean Nancy Andrews and then Pratt School of Engineering
Dean Tom Katsouleas, with support by Provost Sally Kornbluth, to further
increase collaboration between the schools of medicine and engineering.

They understood that the School of Medicine and the School of Engineering
could innovate more nimbly, translate discoveries into clinical practice more
quickly, and have a much greater positive impact on patient care if they
worked together.

"Duke has a number of existing strengths, and MEDx was created to build upon
those strengths by creating an ecosystem that would support engineering and
medicine activity at all levels across the university," says Geoffrey S.
Ginsburg, MD, PhD, professor of medicine, biomedical engineering, pathology
and nursing.

Ginsburg co-leads the initiative along with Ken Gall, PhD, chair of mechanical
engineering and materials science and professor of biomedical engineering, and
executive director Donna Crenshaw, PhD, MHA.

## MATCHMAKING OPPORTUNITY

MEDx builds on a long-established culture of collaboration at Duke that has
resulted in an impressive track record of biomedical innovation, including new
technologies for ultrasound, the cochlear implant, artificial vasculature, and
bio-absorbable stents. The program is built on four "pillars" of activity —
creating communities, energizing education, inspiring and enabling innovative
science, and embracing entrepreneurship—and directs the expertise of both
schools in those areas.

> "When interviewing around the country, I couldn't find any other place like
> Duke, where collaboration is so seamless. The doctors here love new
> technology, and you have talented students and engineers who want to make a
> real difference in the world."
>
> Junjie Yao  
> assistant professor of biomedical engineering

"Rather than starting at the department level, this is a school-to-school
collaboration," says Gall. "We have more than 2,000 faculty in the School of
Medicine and more than 110 faculty in the School of Engineering. With the
breadth and size of the medical school and the various fields of engineering,
there is enormous potential."

Ginsburg envisions the initiative as a zipper: the twin disciplines of
engineering and medicine uniting at multiple points, starting at the
undergraduate level and running all the way up through joint faculty hires and
distinguished lecturers, and ultimately out into the world of clinical
application and commercialization.

"What's been surprising is just how many new opportunities we're finding
through MEDx, how many people there are who didn't know they should be working
with each other," says Ginsburg. "We have developed insights into which
connections could be very productive. We're an effective matchmaking
opportunity."

That opportunity to bridge the disciplines attracts attention.

"I came here enthusiastically for the marriage of engineering and medicine,"
says Junjie Yao, PhD, assistant professor of biomedical engineering, who
joined Duke in 2016. "When interviewing around the country, I couldn't find
any other place like Duke, where collaboration is so seamless. The doctors
here love new technology, and you have talented students and engineers who
want to make a real difference in the world."[MS1]

## CREATING COMMUNITIES

One of the first steps in bringing the two fields together is creating
opportunities for busy people to meet, learn, and brainstorm.

"There are natural areas where engineers have interacted with clinicians and
physicians and basic scientists for a while," says George Truskey, MD, PhD, R.
Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Professor of Biomedical Engineering and senior
associate dean of Pratt School of Engineering. "But MEDx has opened up
opportunities beyond the traditional areas."

For example, in the School of Medicine, an active group of more than 140
medical students initiated and formed the Medicine Engineering Interest Group
[MEIG] to facilitate such interaction. With additional support from MEDx, they
have created a lunchtime seminar series for engineering faculty to share
information with medical students about topics such as 3D printing, devices,
implants, software, and applications. This is a chance for medical students to
learn about engineering research happening at Duke in advance of choosing how
they want to spend their third year. In some cases, the exposure to these
ideas changes a student's trajectory.

Other MEDx-sponsored events include MEDx Café—informal coffee shop office
hours where people can meet and bat around ideas. Targeted research
collaboration dinners, seminars, and speaker series designed to attract
attendees from both engineering and medicine also bring people with
collaboration potential together.

"It's easy to imagine, but it can be hard to do," says Liping Feng, MD,
assistant professor of obstetrics and gynecology. "Generally, clinical
scientists care about improving medicine and basic scientists care about
developing technology. MEDx has been able to bridge the two sides, and
everyone hopes this leads to better patient care in the future."

## ENERGIZING EDUCATION

A second focus is re-imagining education. At the undergraduate level,
engineering students now travel to the medical center to shadow surgeons.
Surgeons, in turn, explain their "pain points" or bottlenecks. The engineering
students then return to the classroom to brainstorm possible solutions to the
real-world problems.

Undergraduate senior design courses are another avenue of collaboration.
"We've connected students and faculty from the School of Medicine to the
biomedical engineering and mechanical engineering and materials science design
courses," says Gall. "Individuals can pitch their project to the students in a
reverse 'Shark Tank' scenario. If the students like the project, they can take
it on. We'd like to extend this to other design courses, too. We want to give
people multiple paths to connect with the right resource."

One path is the InnovateMD Fellowship,- a competitive one-year program for
clinical trainees who are interested in medical device development. Co-founded
in 2016 by **David Ranney, MD, HS'13-Present** , and Gall, the program pairs a
trainee with engineering students to design a solution for an identified
clinical need. The program involves project-based coursework and includes
access to mentors, industry experts, and networking. Upon completion, trainees
have a prototype or design they can continue developing. InnovateMD also
provides educational resources, events, and seminars to faculty, residents,
and fellows who wish to tackle a project or challenge in their specialty with
an entrepreneurial perspective.

For other students, the right path might involve pursuing an additional
degree. **Joshua D'Arcy, MD'19** is the first recipient of the Barr-Spach
Medicine and Engineering Scholarship. He is spending his third year of medical
school pursuing a master's degree in biomedical engineering.

"Medicine is very present-oriented: physicians try to solve the problem that
is directly in front of them," says D'Arcy. "Engineering is very future-
oriented: what can be improved? The two are wonderfully complementary. I
wanted to have a future-oriented mindset while practicing medicine."

## INSPIRING AND ENABLING INNOVATIVE SCIENCE

Innovation lies at the heart of MEDx and is being nurtured through
competitively funded interschool colloquia and interdisciplinary seed grants.

MEDx also provides biomedical research seed funding. Recent award winners read
like a roll-call of science fiction plot lines: tissue engineering, the brain
machine interface, artificial intelligence and machine learning, robotics,
microfluidics, body-on-a-chip, and miniaturized diagnostics.

"We are trying to do something that is totally different than what currently
exists. It is entirely outside of the box and in some ways moving in a
different direction than our field, but I think taking those risks is really
important, both in the context of science and engineering," says **Kafui
Dzirasa, MD'09, PhD'07, HS'10-'16** , associate professor of psychiatry and
behavioral sciences.

Dzirasa and Nenad Bursac, PhD, professor of biomedical engineering, are co-
principal investigators of an ambitious 2017 MEDx biomedical research grant
involving six different labs. The project is exactly the type of collaboration
MEDx embraces: innovative, audacious, and interdisciplinary – research that
more traditional funders might shy away from. Ideally, with early success,
these projects will grab the attention of much larger funders such as the
National Institutes of Health.

"There's definitely a palpable hunger among the faculty and students to do
this cross-cutting work," says Ginsburg. "Innovation is proportional to
diversity in terms of bringing different ways of thinking to a problem.
Diversity of thought and diversity of backgrounds leads to much more
accelerated innovation. People are less afraid to step out of their own
disciplines to seek others' viewpoints. MEDx has contributed to this culture
of innovation at Duke."

And the inspiration stemming from these collaborations is far-reaching.

"We are a group of creative engineers working in the lab," says Yao. "We
encourage each other by imagining about how our work might be useful in the
future. But after we started our project, the distance between technology and
human health care decreased: not just physically, but mentally. It
dramatically motivated the team, including me, to say, 'Here is a big problem
in the real world, and many people are suffering, and we could potentially
help.' It is very exciting for all of us."

## ENHANCING ENTREPRENEURSHIP

Beyond promoting collaboration and research, MEDx is also working to support
entrepreneurship. Students not only design prototypes, but can meet with
potential investors or others who may want to support continued research and
development.

"As projects move up this ladder, MEDx wants to help find a pathway to the
clinic and commercialization," says Ginsburg.

With the Duke Innovation and Entrepreneurship Initiative, the Duke Office of
Licensing and Ventures, and MedBlue—a medical school incubator that provides
funding—MEDx works with numerous programs to help students and faculty
understand commercialization and launch companies. MEDx co-sponsors workshops
on topics such as the legal landscape of entrepreneurism; how to file
intellectual property, patents, and licenses; and how to secure follow-on
funding. In sum: how to be serious, strategic, and smart about starting a
company.

To date, three start-up companies have been formed, or are in the process of
being formed, based on work directly supported by MEDx.

## BLUE SKIES AHEAD

As MEDx continues to grow, the focus will be on finding new areas of
collaboration and sustainability. Mary E. Klotman, MD, dean of the School of
Medicine, and Vice Chancellor for health affairs at Duke University appointed
Ginsburg and Kathryn Nightingale, PhD, James L. and Elizabeth M. Vincent
Professor of Biomedical Engineering, to co-chair a joint medicine and
engineering task force. Their charge was to investigate what opportunities and
strategic gaps may still exist between the two schools, and then to explore
what programs and resources may need to be amplified to address those gaps.

"I'm totally excited about the science and the translational and
commercialization opportunities," says Ginsburg. "It's about creating a model
that allows us do even more crazy things—a model that allows people to escape
current boundaries that exist because of resource constraints."

Several paths lead toward sustainability: one approach is through public and
private philanthropy and another is through industry partnerships.

"If you look at the Big 5—Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Google, and
Microsoft—they're all doing something in the health care space," says
Ginsburg. "MEDx is in a really good position to seek out strategic
partnerships with those who are aligned with the work we're doing here. Those
partnerships could also lead to our expansion into new areas and provide
internship opportunities for students to work in new and different types of
research environments."

There is also tremendous interest in finding the $100 million idea.

"There are a lot of blue-sky opportunities," says Ginsburg. "In physics, we
talk about potential energy. There is a lot of potential energy at Duke. You
need just a small catalyst, and the fire will grow from there."

**GET INVOLVED**

Do you have an idea for a MEDx project? Is there a challenge you see in your
own clinical setting? Would you like to become involved with a MEDx team as a
mentor? Contact Geoffrey.ginsburg@duke.edu.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

