

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# MEDx Reflections: Q&A with Robert E. Fischell, Recipient of the National
Medal for Technology and Innovation

October 12, 2016

One of Duke’s most lauded alumni, Robert E. Fischell E’51, returns to campus
for the first MEDx Distinguished Lecture

_One of Duke’s most lauded alumni,Robert E. Fischell E’51, developed more than
50 spacecraft for the United States Navy and NASA before turning his attention
to biomedical devices in 1969. Since then, he has launched 14 private
companies, and holds more than 200 US and foreign patents that have been the
basis for medical devices including heart pacemakers, defibrillators and
coronary stents that have been implanted in more than 20 million patients
worldwide. _

_Among his many honors are Inventor of the Year for the USA (1984); election
to the National Academy of Engineering (1996); Discover Magazine’s Technology
for Humanity award (2004); the TED award for contributions to medical
technology (2005); and the White House’s National Medal for Technology and
Innovation (2013)._

_Just ahead of delivering the first Duke MEDx Distinguished Lecture in fall
2016, Fischell talked with us about his career at the intersection of medicine
and engineering._

**How did you get interested in science and engineering to begin with?**

I was brought up in the Bronx by a father who didn’t finish the 8th grade—he
was an immigrant from Lithuania. My mother was an immigrant from Minsk, and
she was the family hero because she went to high school. My father was a shoe
salesman, and my mother ended up being a bookkeeper. But there was a love for
learning in the family. It was always told that the best thing you can do in
life if you want to make something of yourself is to get a good education.

**Why did you choose to go to Duke and what was it like?**

When I finished high school, the time had come to go to college, and I noted
that Duke had a very good reputation. Not nearly as good as it has today,
though, and some people say it got much better after I left and that there was
a correlation. But I deny it.

Duke was great for me. It was beautiful. It was friendly. I enjoyed the
intellect and the sports. I loved everything that there was. I studied
Mechanical Engineering, but I found that the easiest course for me was
physics. I thought it was such an easy field that I’d try to make a living at
it.

**Where did you go after graduation?**

I loved physics so much that I went on to the University of Maryland where I
got my master’s in it, and I finished all the coursework for my doctorate, but
I got so busy that I didn’t write a thesis. They granted the degree to me
though many years later as an honorary degree.

I didn’t have any specialty in physics, but I’ve applied it as an inventor. I
worked at the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory for 32 years
designing spacecraft for the United States. I have 30 patents on spacecraft,
and I even taught at the University of Maryland in the graduate school, where
I taught the elements of space technology.

**What are some of your most memorable achievements in spacecraft?**

You’ve heard of the GPS satellites? Well, the precursor was called Transit. It
was a navigation satellite that just does exactly what GPS does, but it does
it using about four different satellites that go around the planet. I probably
had 20 patents on the design of those satellites, and many are still in orbit
being used for research.

I also did a lot of research in magnetism. I convinced NASA to spend tens of
millions of dollars on MagSat, which precisely defined the Earth’s magnetic
field. I was the first one to invent aligning the axis of a satellite along
the Earth’s magnetic field so that one side wouldn’t get too hot while the
other got cold. Then I invented how to remove the last bit of spin out of a
satellite by using magnetic rods that rub against the Earth’s magnetic fields.
It’s interesting how much I’ve dabbled in magnetism.

**But at some point you got into biomedical devices. How did that come
about?**

I was reading an electrical engineering magazine and saw an advertisement for
a heart pacemaker. It said that the batteries were so good that they last as
long as two years.

Well I looked at that and said, “It only last two years? And you have to put a
new one in through surgery every two years?” So I called Johns Hopkins and
asked a doctor if it does really last only two years. He said no, that’s not
true. It only lasts 14 months.

So I said I’ll tell you what I’ll do. In one week’s time I’ll bring you a
working, rechargeable heart pacemaker one-quarter of the size that will last
the patient’s lifetime. So I got my engineers, who are brilliant satellite
engineers, and they made the first rechargeable heart pacemaker.

That’s how I accidentally got into medical devices. You never can tell what
will happen if you don’t mind your own business.

**So you pivoted into the biomedical realm for the past three decades. What
are some of your most memorable achievements?**

I was co-inventor of the heart defibrillator and coronary stents. I invented a
device (approved two years ago by the FDA) that senses epileptic seizures
before they happen and turns them off. I invented a device that tells that
you’re having a heart attack before you have any symptoms. It alerts you and
sends heart data to the nearest hospital and registers you there. I invented
another device that creates intense magnetic pulsations onto the brain, which
erases migraine headaches. That one is now FDA-approved and is already in use
by a few thousand people and growing.

Now I’m working on a technique putting intense magnetic pulsations into the
human body, where they turn into electrical pulses. We’ve discovered that
electrical pulses on pain neurons prevent them from sending the exact message
for pain to the brain, so the body thinks there is no pain.

At the moment, the medical school at the University of Maryland in Baltimore
is conducting clinical trials to use this magnetic pulsing technique to
relieve lower back pain. We’re also going to use it for relieving the foot
pain from diabetic neuropathy and cancer chemotherapy. My goal is to use these
intense magnetic pulsations to erase or at least reduce most human pain with
no drugs or side effects. I think there’s an opportunity there to have a great
company that can help millions of pain patients throughout the world.

**It sounds like you’ve worked with licensing technology and starting
companies a lot in your decades of work. Is that difficult?**

I’ve started 14 companies and my patents have been licensed through Medtronic,
Johnson & Johnson, Abbott Laboratories and Boston Scientific. That names a few
of them. So I guess they got around.

But every time, they will not give you any support until you have absolutely
proven that it works and you have FDA clearance. So it is a very difficult
thing to succeed in the medical device business today. I saw a statistic
recently that said that 9 out of 10 startups fail, and that doesn’t surprise
me. It’s not an easy field.

**But it’s an important field?**

Engineering in medicine can provide some of the greatest advances in medicine.
In my opinion, an incredible part of the future of medical care for human
beings will be by joining advanced engineering with medicine. One hundred
years ago there were essentially no medical devices, and now I’m sure there
are at least 100 that are having a dramatic effect at improving human life
every day. Also, medical devices act locally as opposed to drugs that permeate
the entire body and have many adverse consequences. Medical devices do not
have those adverse consequences, and so they can be extremely effective.

**You’ve had a tremendous impact on human life. What is it like, at 87 years
of age, looking back on your ongoing career?**

It has to make you feel extremely good, after a lifetime of work, to make new
medical devices and spacecraft to help mankind. Of course, to me it is always
an opportunity that can create truly satisfying results. I hardly ever have to
“work.” All I do is create inventions, make companies and design new things
for people. And to me it’s a great game.

It’s a great game.

If one can apply the knowledge that one gained at Duke University to benefit
mankind and yourself, that’s as good as it gets. You might quote me on that.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

