

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Mimicking the Human Placental Barrier

July 30, 2018 | By Mara Catherin Shurgot

George Truskey teams with Duke School of Medicine researchers to create a
novel placenta model to better understand the dynamic organ

_From the Duke University School of Medicine Alumni News Magazine_

The United States has one of the highest rates of preterm birth—up to 10
percent of all pregnancies—in the world. And many pregnancy complications,
such as pre-eclampsia, which contributes to preterm birth, are associated with
abnormal placenta development.

"One of the reasons we don't understand pregnancy well is that we don't
understand the human placenta, which is extremely complex," says Liping Feng,
MD, assistant professor of obstetrics and gynecology, who studies pregnancy
complications and improving pregnancy outcomes. "The placenta is one of the
most under-studied organs because we lack a model for research."

Nutrients, oxygen, immunoglobulins, and waste all pass through the placenta.

Researchers have been stymied by the absence of an effective placental
research model. Attempts to develop an in vitro model of the placenta that
mimics its unique cellular properties have been unsuccessful, and ethical
considerations prevent researchers from using the placenta in vivo. And
because it's a dynamic organ, developing throughout gestation, placentas
collected after birth can't be used to model placental dynamics.

To address this challenge, Feng aimed to create a novel placenta model that
would enable researchers to better understand the organ, the cellular
interface, and the transport of nutrients and foreign components from the
mother to the fetus. Sallie Permar, MD, PhD, professor of Pediatrics, was also
interested in the idea for her research in the transfer of both protective
maternal antibodies and harmful pathogens to the fetus.

Permar's team researches maternal and infant immune systems and strategies to
prevent the transmission of viral and environmental pathogens between mother
and child.

Feng approached George Truskey, MD, PhD, the R. Eugene and Susie E. Goodson
Professor of Biomedical Engineering, because of his expertise in
microfluidics—the manipulation of small amounts of fluid—and his pioneering
research in engineering model tissues and blood vessels.

Truskey's lab has developed a polycarbonate membrane that is seeded with
placental cells drawn from patients who have had a C-section and given consent
for a research donation of the placenta. A channel above and below the
membrane allows the researchers to draw fluid across at a very low rate,
mimicking blood flow through an active placenta. Ultimately, they wish to
dissect the route that molecules and virus particles take as they travel
between mother and fetus.

A placenta model would serve multiple purposes. Researchers could study both
normal function and disease states; better understand the mechanism of viral
transmission, such as Zika, cytomegalovirus (CMV), and HIV; study immune
regulation and nutrient transfer; and environmental toxicology. "A system such
as this "microfluidic placenta on a chip" is critical for researchers to
understand how to optimally protect and nurture a developing fetus, and the
design of strategies to avoid some of the perils of pregnancy, including
congenital infections, adverse exposures, and preterm birth" says Permar.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

