

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Building a Better Brain

August 2, 2018 | By Mara Catherin Shurgot

Nenad Bursac is working with MEDx colleagues to build a biological brain that
can monitor, activate, and potentially repair or enhance cell function in
various parts of the brain

_From the Duke University School of Medicine Alumni News Magazine_

Like a team in a science fiction movie, the six-lab squad funded by a 2017
MEDx Biomedical research grant is striking in its combination of diverse
skills and duties.

The project is led by Kafui Dzirasa, MD'09, PhD'07, HS'10-'16, associate
professor of psychiatry and behavioral sciences and assistant professor in
neurobiology and neurosurgery; and Nenad Bursac, PhD, professor of biomedical
engineering and associate professor in medicine. Their team includes: Marc
Caron, PhD, James B. Duke Professor of Cell Biology, professor in neurobiology
and medicine; Fan Wang, PhD, professor of neurobiology; Christopher Kontos,
MD, HS'93-'97, professor of medicine and associate professor of pharmacology
and cancer biology—all at Duke University School of Medicine—and Jennie Leach,
PhD, associate professor of chemical, biochemical, and environmental
engineering at the University of Maryland Baltimore County, along with a cadre
of committed graduate students, postdocs, and technicians.

Dzirasa's background in engineering informs his approach to the study of
neuropsychiatric illness and disease. In the summer of 2016, he and members of
his lab were discussing the challenge of precisely monitoring brain activity.

"We do not have the technology to monitor individual neurons interacting with
each other on a large scale in real-time," says Dzirasa. "All of our existing
tools have limitations. We wanted to fundamentally change the paradigm of how
information is taken out of—and put back into—the brain."

Their question was: what is the best type of sensor to more accurately assess
brain activity? Their answer: the brain. Their quest: build a biological brain
that can monitor, activate, and potentially repair or enhance cell function in
various parts of the brain.

"What we imagine is a framework made of biological material that's powered by
blood, nutrients, and oxygen, and this framework will connect to the brain and
to the outside world," Dzirasa says. "It will be like a brain connection
patch."

> "As it stands now, our brains interact with computers all the time, but
> we're limited by pressing the buttons on our cell phone or typing on a
> keyboard. What if we could speed up the information transfer so that
> information can go directly into the brain, bypassing the eyes and ears?
> That's a little bit more on the sci-fi side, but that future is not far
> off."

Bursac's experience using proteins to transfer electricity from one cell to
another will inform the creation of the base, or "substrate" of the brain.
"How cells electrically communicate within this system will be very
important," says Bursac.

Wang has experience in calcium imaging, which allows visualization of a large
number of cells simultaneously, and Caron's experience altering genes informs
the understanding of neuronal communication. Kontos studies how blood vessels
create new extensions, and his job is to explore how to vascularize the brain
sensor to keep it alive. Last but not least, Leach was brought in for her
expertise in building biomaterial frameworks that can keep cells that sense
electricity alive.

Elizabeth Ransey, PhD, a postdoc with a background in biochemistry,
coordinates the teams' efforts.

Dzirasa imagines their project primarily in the context of understanding and
treating disease and injury. Patients with psychiatric disorders and
neurological illnesses such as depression and Alzheimer's would be ideal
candidates.

But another possibility involves the question of how human brains interface
with computers.

"As it stands now, our brains interact with computers all the time, but we're
limited by pressing the buttons on our cell phone or typing on a keyboard,"
Dzirasa says. "What if we could speed up the information transfer so that
information can go directly into the brain, bypassing the eyes and ears?
That's a little bit more on the sci-fi side, but that future is not far off."

The hope is to have a fully functioning prototype within the next two to three
years. What will it look like?

"We haven't figured that part out yet," Dzirsa admits. "We're bringing in the
designers next. Nobody wants two heads."

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

