

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Melissa & Doug Senior's Company Facilitates Investing in Africa

May 3, 2017

Senior Uzoma Ayogu is helping the country where he was born in by connecting
investors with small to medium enterprises in Nigeria

_Originally published by Duke Innovation and Entrepreneurship_

In his application essay for Duke, Uzoma Ayogu ’17 wrote that he wanted to
help improve the country where he was born.

Now, he’s a senior and doing just that through his company Releaf, a platform
that helps connect investors with small to medium enterprises (SMEs) in
Nigeria.

Ayogu is a member of the 2017 class of Melissa & Doug Entrepreneurs, a student
entrepreneurship program administered by Duke I&E that helps students build
their own ventures.

Although Ayogu had already been working on Releaf independently of the
program, he said his membership in the program pushes him and his team to
perform better because they have to set goals and meet them on deadline.

Ayogu’s two co-founders, who attend MIT and Yale, are also members of their
respective schools’ student entrepreneurship programs.

“It’s been interesting because there is additional pressure from so many
different directions,” he said.

Not only has the program helped connect him to potential customers, Ayogu
said, but it’s also helped him build his entrepreneurial skills, such as
learning more efficient and effective ways to conduct customer interviews.

Releaf began to form in summer 2015. Ayogu and his co-founders all had parents
who lamented the state of things in Nigeria, and the young men wanted to make
a change. Initially, they thought that a skills gap might be stifling
Nigeria’s economy, so they set Releaf up as a platform for remote consulting.
This meant they could crowdsource specific skills that SMEs needed, whether it
was marketing, web development, or grant proposal writing.

While attending the African Christian Fellowship, they pitched the idea to the
president of the African Development Bank, who gave them $10,000 to test the
idea on the ground in Nigeria.

That approach worked for about a year, Ayogu said, and they helped a few
companies get funded. But soon, they realized the model wasn’t sustainable.

Ayogu said his team knew that investors putting away capital to invest in
Africa – but even though the interest was there, investments in African
companies weren’t increasing.

The problem was something the team saw as an opportunity – lack of access to
information about the companies.

“We said, ‘We’ve been working with these SMEs for a year, and we’ve been
working with people interested in helping them,’” Ayogu said. “‘Let’s see if
we can pivot to people interested in financing them and build a platform to
give people the information they need to make investment decisions.’”

The platform tells investors how companies are performing in the market
compared to other companies so that even those with limited knowledge of the
market can be informed before they invest. With a subscription to Releaf,
investors can avoid paying for expensive reports from consulting companies,
Ayogu said.

Releaf is now a team of eight people. More than 400 SMEs in Nigeria have
agreed to have their information shown on the platform, a service that is free
for the businesses. Releaf plans to monetize through investors subscribing to
the platform, and the company aims to have its first 10 paying customers by
the end of April.

Although Releaf is primarily a tool for investors, Ayogu said, “we envision it
as capital infrastructure that can make doing business in Nigeria easier
overall.”

If it’s easier to do business, Ayogu said, it will be easier for others to
start businesses, thereby creating more jobs and lifting more people out of
poverty. Eventually, he hopes Releaf will expand beyond Nigeria to other
African countries.

“If we can improve the ease of doing business, hopefully there is some impact
community-wide,” he said.

Ayogu got an offer to work at Microsoft after graduation but asked for a
deferment so he can focus on Releaf. The decision to ask for the deferment was
both risky and scary, Ayogu said, but he was sure that Releaf was worth it.

Now, Ayogu plans to move to Nigeria after graduation with his co-founder
Ikenna Nzewi, where he will pursue a goal he set for himself as an incoming
freshman at Duke.

“Releaf aligns so perfectly with what I feel called to do, which is technology
to help the over 1 billion people that are underserved,” he said. “I feel so
strongly about using technology to make life more livable and not just more
convenient.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

