

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Message from the Duke President and Provost on Federal Immigration
Restrictions

January 30, 2017

Duke University is committed to, and is greatly enriched by, the open exchange
of students, scholars and ideas from all over the globe.

_This message originally appeared onDuke Today._

Dear Colleagues,

The new restrictions on immigration to the United States by residents of Iran,
Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen that were announced on Friday by
President Trump are both confusing and disturbing. We want to assure you that
Duke has reached out to our students, faculty and staff from the affected
countries to offer support and guidance during this difficult time. We are in
constant contact with immigration experts, other universities and national
associations to understand the implications of the new policies, parts of
which have already been successfully challenged in Federal court. While the
circumstances and implementation appear to be changing with great frequency,
at this point, we have advised individuals from the affected countries avoid
all international travel for the immediate future.

Duke University is committed to, and is greatly enriched by, the open exchange
of students, scholars and ideas from all over the globe. We are deeply
concerned about the well-being of students, faculty and staff who may be
impacted by the policies that have now been put in place, and will join with
the rest of higher education to bring these concerns to the attention of
policymakers and the public.

To that end, we want to restate our fundamental commitment to ensuring that
all students and faculty can focus on what brought them here in the first
place: to get a world-class education and pursue scholarship in an environment
that supports them regardless of their background. While the current
environment remains unsettled, we want to restate (see
https://today.duke.edu/2016/12/message-president-brodhead-immigration-issues)
that Duke University cannot and will not share confidential student records
with law enforcement agencies—local, state, or federal—without a subpoena.

In the meantime, we encourage all members of the Duke community to utilize the
university’s support services, including Duke Reach, Duke Visa Services and
the International House if you have questions.

We expect there will continue to be changes and new developments over the next
several days and will keep the campus updated as we learn more information.

**Richard Brodhead, President**  
 **Sally Kornbluth, Provost**

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

