

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# For This Metal, Electricity Flows, But Not the Heat

February 3, 2017 | by Sarah Yang

Law-breaking property in vanadium dioxide could lead to applications in
thermoelectrics, window coatings

_Adapted from apress release from Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory  
_

There's a known rule-breaker among materials, and a new discovery by an
international team of scientists adds more evidence to back up the metal's
nonconformist reputation. According to a study led by scientists at the
Department of Energy’s Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (Berkeley Lab),
the University of California, Berkeley, and Duke University, electrons in
vanadium dioxide can conduct electricity without conducting heat.

The findings, published in the Jan. 27 issue of the journal _Science_ , could
lead to a wide range of applications, such as thermoelectric systems that
convert waste heat from engines and appliances into electricity.

Olivier Delaire, associate professor of mechanical engineering and materials
science and of physics at Duke, and his colleagues at Berkeley Lab have been
trying to unlock the mysterious material’s secrets for the better part of a
decade. By simulating the fundamental behaviors of the material’s electrons,
they’ve managed to get a better understanding of vanadium dioxide’s stability,
structure and functional properties.

For most metals, the relationship between electrical and thermal conductivity
is governed by the Wiedemann-Franz Law. Simply put, the law states that good
conductors of electricity are also good conductors of heat. That is not the
case for metallic vanadium dioxide, a material already noted for its unusual
ability to switch from an insulator to a metal when it reaches a balmy 67
degrees Celsius, or 152 degrees Fahrenheit.

“There’s been this conundrum about vanadium oxide,” said Delaire, who also has
an appointment at Oak Ridge National Laboratory. “When vanadium oxide switches
to a metal, its electrical conductivity increases by 1000 times, but its
thermal conductivity changes little when it should increase in a similar way.
This study was meant to probe and answer some of those lingering questions by
looking at its atomic vibrations.”

Using results from simulations and X-ray scattering experiments, Delaire and
his colleagues were able to tease out the proportion of thermal conductivity
attributable to the vibration of the material's crystal lattice, called
phonons, and to the movement of electrons.

To their surprise, they found that the thermal conductivity attributed to the
electrons is ten times smaller than what would be expected from the Wiedemann-
Franz Law.

"The electrons were moving in unison with each other, much like a fluid,
instead of as individual particles like in normal metals," said study
principal investigator Junqiao Wu, a physicist at Berkeley Lab’s Materials
Sciences Division and a UC Berkeley professor of materials science and
engineering. “For electrons, heat is a random motion. Normal metals transport
heat efficiently because there are so many different possible microscopic
configurations that the individual electrons can jump between. In contrast,
the coordinated, marching-band-like motion of electrons in vanadium dioxide is
detrimental to heat transfer as there are fewer configurations available for
the electrons to hop randomly between."

Notably, the amount of electricity and heat that vanadium dioxide can conduct
is tunable by mixing it with other materials. When the researchers doped
single crystal vanadium dioxide samples with the metal tungsten, they lowered
the phase transition temperature at which vanadium dioxide becomes metallic.
At the same time, the electrons in the metallic phase became better heat
conductors. This enabled the researchers to control the amount of heat that
vanadium dioxide can dissipate by switching its phase from insulator to metal
and vice versa, at tunable temperatures.

Such materials can be used to help scavenge or dissipate the heat in engines,
or be developed into a window coating that improves the efficient use of
energy in buildings. Imagine a window that automatically blocks ultraviolet
radiation when the sun heats it a few degrees. Vanadium oxide could
potentially also be used as a transistor in computer processers, as it
switches from conductor to insulator in less than 100 femtoseconds—about 100
times faster than silicon transistors on the market today.

"This material could also be used to help stabilize temperature," said study
co-lead author Fan Yang, a postdoctoral researcher at Berkeley Lab's Molecular
Foundry, a DOE Office of Science User Facility. "By tuning its thermal
conductivity, the material can efficiently and automatically dissipate heat in
the hot summer because it will have high thermal conductivity, but prevent
heat loss in the cold winter because of its low thermal conductivity at lower
temperatures."

Vanadium dioxide has the added benefit of being transparent below about 30
degrees Celsius (86 degrees Fahrenheit), and absorptive of infrared light
above 60 degrees Celsius (140 degrees Fahrenheit).

Yang noted that there are more questions that need to be answered before
vanadium dioxide can be commercialized, but said that this study highlights
the potential of a material with "exotic electrical and thermal properties."

While there are a handful of other materials besides vanadium dioxide that can
conduct electricity better than heat, those occur at temperatures hundreds of
degrees below zero, making it challenging to develop into real-world
applications, the scientists said.

Other co-lead authors of the study include Sangwook Lee at Kyungpook National
University in South Korea, Kedar Hippalgaonkar at the Institute of Materials
Research and Engineering in Singapore, and Jiawang Hong at the Beijing
Institute of Technology in China. Lee and Hippalgaonkar started work on this
paper as postdoctoral researchers at UC Berkeley. Hong began his work as a
postdoctoral researcher at Oak Ridge National Laboratory. The full list of
authors is available online.

Additional support for this work came through the use of facilities supported
by the Electronic Materials Program at DOE's Office of Science.

###

Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory addresses the world’s most urgent
scientific challenges by advancing sustainable energy, protecting human
health, creating new materials, and revealing the origin and fate of the
universe. Founded in 1931, Berkeley Lab’s scientific expertise has been
recognized with 13 Nobel Prizes. The University of California manages Berkeley
Lab for the U.S. Department of Energy’s Office of Science. For more, visit
https://www.lbl.gov/.

DOE’s Office of Science is the single largest supporter of basic research in
the physical sciences in the United States, and is working to address some of
the most pressing challenges of our time. For more information, please visit
energy.gov/science/office-science.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

