

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Michelle Moffa: Providing Access to Clean Water

January 19, 2017

##### 2018 NAE Grand Challenge Scholar Profile

  * Major: Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * Grand Challenge: Provide Access to Clean Drinking Water
  * GC Advisor: Marc Deshusses
  * Research: Photocatalytic Enhancement of SODIS Using Immobilized TiO2 on
    3D-Printed Supports

**How did you get into engineering?**

I have wanted to be an engineer since I was 13 years old. It all started when
I was in middle school doing science projects on little water filters that I
could make in my kitchen. Eventually this grew into a passion, not just for
water and water access and water purification, but also for the science around
it. I realized going through high school and college that I loved science. I
think it’s fascinating, exciting and ever-changing, and I think engineering is
a way to use science to help improve society and make a difference in
communities throughout the world.

**How did you get involved with the Duke Grand Challenge Scholars Program?**

I think it was through one of the emails that we get about different programs
at Duke Engineering. It caught my eye because I’m interested in shaping my
educational experience here at Duke around clean water access, sanitation,
hygiene and development, and the Grand Challenge Program fit into my goals for
college to challenge myself on this single issue and look at it from a lot of
different perspectives.

**What is your project for the Grand Challenge Program?**

I’m working with Dr. Marc Deshusses and using photocatalysis for water
purification, disinfection technique to get rid of bacteria and viruses. I’m
also working with Dr. Marc Jeuland in the Duke University Sanford School of
Public Policy, where I’m creating a water-balance model of the Jordan River
Valley. We’re trying to use this model to understand both policy implications
and infrastructure changes and how they can change the water balance in
agricultural and urban areas. It’s a good combination of looking at larger
areas and policy changes, but the lab component is looking at the nitty-gritty
science of all of it.

**What did you learn through the Grand Challenge Scholars program?**

The Grand Challenge has global learning and service components, and that was
eye-opening for me. The summer after my freshman year I worked with two non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) in rural Kentucky. I did two main projects
with them – the first analyzed data about their waterways to see the impact of
coal-mining runoff and the second project involved working with a city that
had a wastewater treatment plant that was way over capacity, and I helped with
a funding report for the city. This past summer I also completed my global
experience, where I worked with an NGO in Uganda to help spread sustainable
water technologies and install bio-sand filters.

**What is your favorite experience from the Grand Challenge Program?**

Since middle school I’ve been fascinated with the problem of water as a global
issue, and I’ve taken so many courses and read so much about it. But finally
being able to talk to community members in Uganda and see how it was impacting
their daily lives and understand it from a new perspective was really eye-
opening for me. It just confirmed that this was the career path that I want to
be taking.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

