

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Michael Bergin: Studying Tiny Particles with a Giant Global Impact

January 27, 2015

How do pollution and particulate matter affect the global environment and
human health?

Michael Bergin joined the Pratt School of Engineering’s Civil and
Environmental Engineering Department in January 2015. An expert on aerosols,
Bergin studies the environmental and human health effects of natural and
manmade microscopic particles floating all around the Earth’s atmosphere.

Ranging in size from a few nanometers to tens of microns, particulate matter
can be released into the air through everything from the burning of fossil
fuels and biomass to the kicking up of mass quantities of dust through
industrial construction and agricultural activity. Although there are various
natural sources of these aerosols, human activity has caused their atmospheric
levels to skyrocket in recent decades.

“A lot of my work has been focused on trying to characterize the extent to
which this rise in particulate matter is having an impact,” said Bergin, who
joins Duke from the Georgia Institute of Technology. “But now I’m also
starting to work toward solutions for mitigating these impacts.”

Bergin earned both bachelor’s and master’s degrees in mechanical engineering
from the University of Minnesota before completing his PhD in civil and
environmental engineering at Carnegie Mellon University. Along the way he also
spent a year and a half as a Mombusho Scholar at Kyoto University in Japan and
worked at IBM in Rochester, Minnesota, before eventually joining the faculty
at Georgia Tech, where he’s been for 16 years.

Bergin’s work has taken him all over the globe. He studied the smog in Beijing
leading up to the 2008 Summer Olympics, and more recently determined that
nearby emissions of particulate matter including dung and garbage burning is
turning the Taj Mahal yellow—prompting the Indian government to take swift
action to outlaw several sources of nearby pollution. He also visits
supposedly pristine environments, such as high-elevation mountain ranges and
the top of the Greenland ice sheet, to study how the world’s pollution is
reaching even those remote locations.

But not all of Bergin’s research requires an airplane. He also works on
environmental and health concerns here in the United States, such as figuring
out how particulate matter may be protecting the southern states from the full
effect of climate change.

“The southeastern United States is a fascinating area because it has not
really been warming,” said Bergin. “Temperatures have been pretty flat, and
the reason is likely related to the haziness that scatters some sunlight back
into space so it doesn’t heat up the surface. There’s a real particulate
matter climate effect in the Southeast.”

In the future, Bergin wants to begin taking a more active role in translating
his research into policy. He also wants to develop inexpensive air-quality
sensors so everyone in the developing world can be more knowledgeable about
the quality of air surrounding them. For instance, as people in China become
more affluent, they are becoming more worried about their local air quality.
And in the United States, people have long been worried about the health
effects of air quality, especially as their children are having higher
incidents of asthma.

These ambitions are part of the reason for his move to Duke. Bergin sees the
university’s strengths in the social sciences and the engineering school’s
close ties with Duke Medicine as an opportunity to expand his horizons.

“I’m interested in the mental and physical aspects of air quality on human
health,” said Bergin. “I also want to work with social scientists to try to
understand why people make decisions—why the air quality is so bad in parts of
America but some people don’t care about it, or why people begin to worry
about the environment and start to take action.

“I’m really an engineer at heart, and Georgia Tech was full of
engineers—people who think like me. But here at Duke, because it’s a liberal-
arts university, I’m going to be pushed out of that box. I’m looking forward
to new collaborations that will take my work in different directions.

Meet our new 2014-2015 faculty members

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

