

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Michael Rizk: Personalizing Undergraduate Education

August 27, 2019

New faculty member Michael Rizk is the latest innovative mind to join Duke
Engineering’s design education “dream team”

Michael Rizk joined Duke University’s Department of Biomedical Engineering as
an assistant professor of the practice in July 2019. With a decade of teaching
complex engineering skills to undergraduate students at the University of
Pennsylvania, Rizk joins a growing team of engineering educators shaping both
Duke BME’s curriculum and Duke Engineering’s signature First-Year Design
Experience.

This new role is a homecoming for Rizk, who earned his PhD from Duke BME in
2008. After studying electrical and computer engineering as an undergraduate
at the California Institute of Technology, Rizk was interested in translating
his technical skills to a new arena.

“I knew I wanted to pursue grad school, but if I continued in electrical
engineering that would have likely involved building something like a faster
computer. I thought applying those same skills and background to better
understand the human body would be more fascinating,” says Rizk. “I reasoned
that building a faster computer could indirectly help a lot of people, but
building an electrical device like a pacemaker would have a more immediate
positive effect.”

This interest led him to the lab of Patrick Wolf in Duke BME. There, Rizk
helped build a fully implantable neural recording system. More recent
iterations of this device, Rizk said, can send information recorded from
neurons to a remote tool, like a neuro-prosthetic or other brain-controlled
device.

Although he found this research fulfilling, Rizk discovered that he also
greatly enjoyed working directly with students.

“I had never done any teaching before, but my time as a TA sparked an interest
in exploring the teaching side of biomedical engineering,” says Rizk. “As I
was finishing up my PhD in the fall of 2008, it turned out that there was a
need for someone to teach courses in BME that following semester, so I stayed
on as an instructor. That confirmed to me that teaching was a direction I
wanted to explore, and I ended up getting a position at the University of
Pennsylvania as a lecturer in the bioengineering program.”

During his decade at UPenn, Rizk taught a range of undergraduate courses,
including senior design and the introductory bioengineering course. Rizk is
looking forward to using his background as an engineering educator and Duke
alumnus to create a personalized engineering experience for undergraduate
students.

Rizk will hit the ground running as school begins in August, leading two
sections of the First-Year Design program and working closely with program
director, Ann Saterbak to guide students as they create their community-based
projects. His role will grow the following semester, where he’ll also teach a
course specifically for biomedical engineering students.

“In my previous position I was always reading feedback from engineering
students about how they wanted to get more hands-on design experience early
on, so it’s exciting to be able to fulfill that need through Duke’s first-year
design program,” says Rizk. “Beyond imparting technical skills, I’m looking
forward to the opportunity to help new students figure out where they belong
and what’s important to them as they explore college and the different career
paths they could follow as engineers.”

This new role seems like a full-circle moment for Rizk.

“I think it was always in the back of my mind to come back to Duke. My wife
and I loved it here, so when this opportunity came up we jumped on it,” says
Rizk. “This new role combines a lot of things that I’ve been interested in,
where I get to work with students to do something meaningful and create
solutions that can directly benefit large populations of people.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

