

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Newly Opened Innovation Hub Brings Together Duke and Microsoft in Downtown
Durham

January 30, 2019

New space brings Microsoft researchers together with inaugural Microsoft Data
Science Investigators from Duke

Leaders from Duke University gathered together with counterparts from
Microsoft from across the country in downtown Durham this month to celebrate
the opening of a new collaborative “Innovation Hub” in the Chesterfield
building. Initially announced in summer 2018, the 4,000-square-foot space is
the physical representation of a new type of collaboration between a
university and tech company that Duke and Microsoft are pioneering together.

Duke faculty will accelerate machine-learning research through the use of
Microsoft Azure to advance health care research, educational programs and
university operations. While researchers campus-wide will have access to these
resources, two Duke Engineering faculty members have been named inaugural
Microsoft Data Science Investigators and will thoroughly explore what the new
collaboration can offer researchers at Duke.

Guillermo Sapiro, the James B. Duke Professor of Electrical and Computer
Engineering and professor of computer science and mathematics, will
investigate multiple tools in Azure to help in his research in machine
learning, privacy, computer vision and computational photography. Vahid
Tarokh, the Rhodes Family Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering and
professor of computer science and mathematics, will use Azure to design brain-
inspired organic networks that can reorganize themselves and to figure out how
to get the most out of Internet of Things devices with limited computational
power.

While the furnishings in the new space are currently sparse—as is the precise
definition of a Microsoft Data Science Investigator—both are expected to
mature and expand as Sapiro and Tarokh bring both organizations closer
together.

“This collaboration between Microsoft Research and Duke is kind of a blank
slate, and it’s on us now to think creatively about how we can best use it,”
said Lawrence Carin, Duke’s vice provost for research and professor of
electrical and computer engineering, during the grand opening event.

“The engineering field in general has no equivalent to the Howard Hughes
Medical Institute, where collaboration between industry and nonprofit is
seamless, although one is much needed and overdue,” said Sapiro. “The
Microsoft Data Science Investigator is a modest but important pioneering step
in that direction. It is in part our responsibility as inaugural MDSIs to
shape this initiative and make it so successful that its expansion becomes
natural.”

Besides offering a place for Sapiro’s and Tarokh’s research groups to meet and
work, the new space will host experts from Microsoft Research on a regular
basis through a monthly seminar series—just one component of the partnership’s
educational mission.

“It’s important to note that a key aspect of this program is creating research
experience and educational opportunities for all of our students, from
undergraduates to doctoral students, so that they can innovate in machine
learning,” said Tarokh.

“One of the challenges facing our country is that if all of the great
artificial intelligence and machine learning minds go to work for the
Microsofts and Googles of the world, who is going to teach the next
generation?” added Carin. “One of the ideas behind this program is that
Guillermo and Vahid will be connected to Microsoft, but they’ll also stay at
Duke. Microsoft is the only tech company that has done something like this,
and I think it’s a model they can be very proud of.”

If the interest from other schools in pursuing similar collaborations is any
indication, it’s a model that Microsoft and Duke will soon help spread across
the entire country.

“This collaboration with Duke has created the vision and generated excitement
across higher education. My hope is that these innovative relationships spread
quickly so we all benefit when great minds come together to teach the next
generation and conduct research leveraging the cloud,” said Jamie Harper, vice
president of education for Microsoft US Education.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

