

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Heat and Light Create Never-Before-Seen Biocompatible Microparticles

March 12, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

Innovative manufacturing technique can create new types of microparticles for
applications such as drug delivery, diagnostics and tissue engineering

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have devised a method for making small
particles that are safe for living tissues that will allow them to create new
shapes attractive for drug delivery, diagnostics and tissue engineering.

The results appear online on March 12 in the journal Nature Communications.

“With nothing more than some heat and light, we can make some pretty bizarre
microparticles,” said Stefan Roberts, a biomedical engineering research
scientist at Duke. “The technique is simple enough that it could be scaled up
to make billions of microparticles in a matter of minutes.”

In the world of biocompatible microparticles, shape, size, internal
microstructure and type of material dictate their intrinsic properties.
Although companies and research labs can already fabricate many complex
microparticles, the process usually involves sophisticated manufacturing
techniques such as multiple-emulsion microfluidics or flow lithography. Both
have their disadvantages.

Multiple-emulsion microfluidics tediously controls a series of individual oil
droplets, but struggles to keep materials completely separate from one another
and cannot be used for large-scale production. Flow lithography shines light
through a patterned mask to etch shapes in soft materials and can make many
particles in short order, but the process is difficult to tailor to
complicated shapes and internal architectures.

Working with Ashutosh Chilkoti, the Alan L. Kaganov Distinguished Professor of
Biomedical Engineering at Duke, Roberts set out to try a completely new
approach -- biological materials. The research pair have a history of working
with elastin-like polypeptides (ELPs), which are disordered proteins that,
much like a ball of spaghetti, derive their stability from chaos and have no
true shape. More recently, the team began working with partially ordered
proteins (POPs), which retain many of the ELPs’ biologically useful properties
but have enough ordered segments to provide more stability than wet noodles.

Both types of proteins can be engineered to shift back and forth between phase
states at certain temperatures. While this is a useful feature for
applications such as slowly releasing drugs into the body or supporting tissue
growth in wounds, the researchers soon discovered that they could also create
various particle shapes by putting ELPs and POPs together.

“Disordered proteins are a hot topic in biology, with many researchers trying
to discover how proteins without shape can still have a biological purpose,”
said Roberts. “An undercurrent of our work is to instead think of these
proteins as a materials scientist would and see if we can engineer them for
our own biological functions in ways that can’t be achieved with current
materials.”

In the paper, Roberts and Chilkoti demonstrate some new microparticles made
with these two types of proteins. By tweaking the temperatures at which they
assemble and disassemble, and sweeping back and forth through a range of
temperatures at various rates, the researchers show that they are able to
create a suite of shapes such as a shell with a solid core, a shell with no
core, and a tangle of cords dotted with shells that they dubbed “fruits on a
vine.” Then, by incorporating photosensitive amino acids, they show that they
can freeze these shapes into solid microparticles with a flash of light.

The researchers say that the ability to create microparticles with precisely
separated regions is relevant for applications such as drug delivery and
tissue engineering.

Each set of parameters simultaneously creates millions of solid, biocompatible
microparticles slightly larger than an average cell. It only takes a few
minutes, and it all happens in a volume of liquid about the size of a drop of
water.

“This is a test case for a type of material that is flexible and simple enough
to create both commonly used shapes and architectures that aren’t seen using
current techniques,” said Roberts. “We’re using new biocompatible materials to
create never-before-seen shapes simply by heating, cooling and shining a light
on them.”

This research was supported by the National Institutes of Health (R35GM127042)
and the National Science Foundation’s Research Triangle MRSEC (DMR-11-21107),
Analytical Instrumentation Facility at NC State University (ECCS-1542015) and
Graduate Research Fellowship Program (1106401).

CITATION: “Complex Microparticle Architectures from Stimuli-Responsive
Intrinsically Disordered Proteins,” Stefan Roberts, Vincent Miao, Simone
Costa, Joseph Simon, Garrett Kelly, Tejank Shah, Stefan Zauscher, Ashutosh
Chilkoti. Nature Communications, 2020. DOI: 10.1038/s41467-020-15128-9

## Related News

October 15, 2018

### Biomaterials with "Frankenstein Proteins" Help Heal Tissue

January 30, 2017

### Engineered "Spaghetti-Ball" Proteins Provide Biomedical Insights

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

