

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Mining Data for All It's Worth

March 20, 2017 | By Scott Huler

Pratt graduate Winston Henderson E'90 partnered with Duke data scientists and
their students to examine diversity and inclusion online.

_This article first appeared in Duke Magazine._

"The Internet assumes everyone is white."

"A strong statement maybe, but Winston Henderson B.S.E. ’90, J.D. ’96 takes
out his phone to offer a simple demonstration.

“Let’s look up ‘female beauty,’ ” he says; he goes to Google and enters the
term. He turns the phone toward you as his finger flicks through gallery after
gallery, image after image of conventionally beautiful women. All of them
slim. And virtually all of them white, especially on the first pages. “There’s
nothing I typed in that said, ‘white, thin female beauty,’ ” Henderson says.
Point made. The culture has a bias, and the technology reflects it."

Henderson has created a start-up, Sankofa, to try to address that complex
intersection of technology and culture. Sankofa is in its earliest days, and
Henderson says it will work on multiple levels, addressing both cultural blind
spots (like those in his search-engine example) and the paucity of people of
color in tech industries. “If you take out sales and manufacturing,” he says,
“you have less than 2 percent black and Latino workers” in tech companies.

Henderson, vice president and general counsel at Nano Terra, a Cambridge,
Massachusetts, nanotechnology company, reached out to his alma mater to see
whether Sankofa could get some help addressing both of the problems he had
identified. He ended up working with Data+, a project of the Information
Initiative at Duke (iiD), an interdisciplinary program that focuses on
increasing student engagement in research into “big data” in various forms.

“iiD is trying to set up a place where all the Duke divisions that think
practically about big data can talk to each other,” says Paul Bendich,
associate director for curricular engagement of iiD and assistant research
professor of mathematics. It’s designed to get real data from Duke
departments, outside companies, and the community, and, from there, to get
students used to working with data, with a customer who has a specific need,
and with each other.

Duke has big-data needs, and outside organizations do, too. All that means
there’s money to get students involved in complex data problems. But starting
with some enormous, three-year funded study headed by a faculty member would
limit students’ opportunities to take chances and to get deeply involved in
the fundamental questions the work raises. So Data+ starts small. With a small
project the stakes are lower. “Having a small project is a way to get your
feet wet,” Bendich says. “We really conceptualize Data+ as a summer incubator
of ideas that might go further.”

> “How do you make sure you approach data with diversity?”
>
> Winston Henderson, E'90, founder of Sankofa

He describes the internships Data+ provides as “a hothouse community of about
seventy students” each summer. Those students come together in small teams of
two, three, or four and address practical issues raised by actual clients.
Projects might focus on the needs of campus departments (helping Duke Parking
and Transportation design an app identifying parking spots) or community
agencies (the Durham Crisis Intervention Collaborative needed to turn
statistical data into understanding of how various mental-health interventions
by the Durham police worked).

The Sankofa Data+ team approached the way Google’s algorithm underrepresented
minorities and minority-related products by choosing an example: hair care. A
quick Google search of hair-care products, once again, takes many screens
before it yields any products for the African-American market. “If you don’t
appear on the first page of Google, you don’t exist,” Henderson says, and he
wanted his Data+ students to reverse-engineer how what ended up on that first
page got there. Plus, Henderson took a step further. Rather than just funding
a project and receiving good work from Duke students on the problems his
nascent company would address, he helped spark a collaboration between Duke
and North Carolina Central University, its Durham neighbor. As the nation’s
first public liberal-arts institution for African Americans, Central had a
natural interest in such a collaboration.

“How do you make sure you approach data with diversity?” Henderson asked. Duke
had overwhelming strength in the data science, he says, “and you have a school
across town with a very diverse student population.” So it seemed like a
perfect meshing of interests and abilities.

Weiyao Wang, a Duke sophomore majoring in math and computer science with a
minor in political science, joined the project at the suggestion of one of his
political science professors, who knew of his interest in big data and steered
him toward Data+. In the group of four students on the Sankofa project, “I’m
basically the tech person,” he says. And using those technologies in social
science fit directly with his broad interests.

The project consisted of ten weeks spent cloistered in rooms in Gross Hall
with other Data+ teams. This closeness has purpose, says Bendich. The Sankofa
team shared a room with a group focusing on data topology and geometry and
another group gathering data on eye movement and food choice in a market—two
other groups, that is, doing serious math and statistics. “We want them near
other smart people working on other parts of the spectrum,” Bendich says.
“Getting a sense of the cultural-trade space—basically, what does it look like
to do that kind of work?”

> “We want to train students to do data science in the actual world.”
>
> Paul Bendich, associate director for curricular engagement of the
> Information Initiative at Duke (iiD)

Data+ worries less about teaching students specific technical skills than
teaching them to think like problem solvers. “Almost always the students will
try to dive deep into technical things they want to learn,” Bendich says, “and
need to be pushed back to look at the bigger problem.” That is, students
naturally want to master skills like scraping data from Twitter or Google
(using a program to turn images or words into data the team could then
analyze) or cleaning data (removing flawed data and rendering the remainder
more ready for analysis) once they’ve got it. Skills that make résumés shine.
“But we want to train students to do data science in the actual world,”
Bendich goes on. “There’s grownup, adult research that goes on there.” What
the students learn in Data+ is “not just being tech nerds but collaborating
with the social sciences and the natural sciences and the humanities.”

The students value that approach.

Wang describes the difficulty of trying to figure out how Google’s search
algorithm worked. He designed a Web-crawling program to perform search after
search and use machine learning to analyze the results directly from Google
and continue searching, but that didn’t work well at first. “Google doesn’t
like people hacking them,” he says, laughing. “It will return a lot of random
stuff when you try to get html from a bot.” Google can tell, that is, when a
particular machine makes repetitive searches, staying on each result for a
recognizable amount of time. Its machines know your machines are up to
something. So Wang had to teach his bot to use proxies for his IP address so
it looked like different users were generating searches, and to spend random
time on the images it was analyzing, so Google couldn’t tell so easily that a
bot was peeping in its windows.

Though the group could never quite crack Google’s algorithm, it was able to
begin figuring out how it worked. The members learned that keywords played an
important role, especially in domain information, as did the number of links
to a page. If highly ranked pages linked to a page, that page’s rank went up.
As Bendich says regarding page rankings, they follow the high-school model of
popularity: “You’re popular if the popular kids say you’re popular.” And
here’s where the collaboration with North Carolina Central really paid off.
“They identified better problems than us,” Wang says of Central students
Samuel Watson and Jarret Weathersby, who joined Wang and junior Jennifer Du of
Duke. In figuring out the algorithm they were designing, “I was thinking we
could manually assign higher scores to certain minority websites,” Wang says,
“because they’re not that popular.” That is, Wang would simply give higher
scores to certain pages and see whether that improved their ranking in
results.

> Data+ is a project of the Information Initiative at Duke (iiD), an
> interdisciplinary program that focuses on increasing student engagement in
> research into “big data” in various forms.

Not so much. “They said all these minority websites are closely linked,” he
says—so no matter how high a score he gave minority websites, they were
linking mostly to each other. The popular kids, in Bendich’s parlance, still
didn’t think those pages were popular.

Whereas the Duke students jumped on the technical issues, the Central students
saw that connection and offered a better understanding of the complexity of
the problem the team was trying to solve. “I mostly dealt with the cultural
aspect of it,” says Weathersby, a junior physics major at Central, “looking up
different hair products or finding out what the African-American community is
looking for in hair-care products.”

In the shampoo search, after getting Google results for its initial searches,
the team went to Twitter and performed sentiment analysis—finding people’s
opinions about shampoos by analyzing the words they use to describe them in
tweets—and found the results significantly changed, especially when they
seeded that information to increase relevance to minority searches. Their
resulting algorithm gave better results than simply adding minority-related
search terms to a Google search. As Wang puts it when describing a hypothesis
he’s continuing to investigate: “It’s not the algorithm itself that’s
discriminating. It’s just the result that reflects what society believes.”

That they didn’t crack Google’s code doesn’t worry Wang. “Our project was just
to give Winston a hint of ways his start-up can go,” he says. Bendich agrees.
“We never want to assure companies that they’re going to get commercial value
out of this,” he says. “It’s more exploration of an idea—and exploration of
potential hires.”

That element of preparing students for research seems to be working. A
discussion with one of his current political science professors has Wang
continuing his attempts to provide more statistically sound search results.
And Weathersby, according to Eric Saliim, director of the Fab Lab at Central,
“took all that wonderful information that he learned and brought that back to
campus and started an NCCU data program.” That model of exploration in
December 2016 netted Data+ the gold prize in the natural-sciences category at
the Reimagine Education Conference and Awards at the University of
Pennsylvania’s Wharton School, which recognizes innovative programs that
enhance both learning and employability.

As for Sankofa, Henderson says the results helped. Students learned a bit
about the problems in online results, and they prepared themselves for the
industry. “My hope is that it is the first step in an ongoing story,”
Henderson says. “How do you make the digital universe inclusive?”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

