

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Mitzi Named Inaugural Simon Professor

March 4, 2016

Materials scientist David Mitzi has been named the Simon Family Professor of
Engineering at Duke University.

Materials scientist David Mitzi has been named the Simon Family Professor of
Engineering at Duke University.

Support for the new professorship comes from Susie Simon in honor of her late
husband J. Stephen Simon (E’65), who was chair of the Board of Visitors for
the Pratt School of Engineering and a former director and senior vice
president of Exxon Mobil Corporation.

Mitzi, the inaugural holder of the professorship, is an expert in developing
new materials for solar cell and other energy applications. His research
focuses on making emerging photovoltaic materials more effective, cost-
efficient and competitive for the energy market.

Most recently, Mitzi was awarded a $1.3 million cooperative grant from the
U.S. Department of Energy SunShot Initiative. The award funds a collaborative
research project on solar cells based on hybrid perovskites—a combination of
organic and inorganic materials and functionalities within a specific
crystalline structure. The goal is to raise the amount of energy this emerging
class of thin-film solar cell materials can generate per dollar spent to
produce them, while at the same time improving the durability and
environmental friendliness of the technology.

His research also focuses on developing metal chalcogenides (materials that
contain sulfur, selenium or tellurium) for solar cells—an application that
multiple companies are already well into commercializing. Mitzi’s goal is to
replace the metals used in such materials—often indium and gallium—with zinc,
tin and other low-cost and abundant metals. Indium is one of the rarest metals
in the Earth’s crust and not uniformly distributed geopolitically, with
roughly 70 percent of the world’s production based in China.

Mitzi has published 192 peer-reviewed articles in top journals with over
16,457 citations. He has also published one book and has 29 patents awarded
with 41 patent applications pending.

“The Simon Family Professorship was designated for a scholar focusing on
solving grand societal challenges, and David has made significant
contributions to the broad field of energy conversion, transport and storage,”
said George Truskey, interim Vinik Dean of the Pratt School of Engineering.
“At this point in David’s career, his publication record coupled with his
scholarly reputation is extraordinary and serves to indicate the depth and
breadth of his impact on his field.”

Susie Simon also donated $1 million in 2009 in memory of her husband to fund
10 “Simon Scholars” each year, who pursue research, interdisciplinary
coursework, entrepreneurship training, service learning and global learning
experiences as a part of the Thomas C. Katsouleas NAE Grand Challenge Scholars
program.

“Duke has always been in our lives and giving back to Duke has always been
important to us,” said Simon. “Even though I didn’t go to Duke, Steve and I
shared a great love for the university throughout our married life, and I
wanted to find a way to stay involved and to honor him and all of the
wonderful memories.”

“I am truly thankful to the Simon Family for the opportunity to be named the
inaugural Simon Family Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science,” said Mitzi. “It is a particular honor to hold this professorship,
given Steve and Susie Simon's deep rooted involvement with Duke and Steve's
commitment throughout his career to the issue of energy resources, an area
that is near and dear to my heart as well. Indeed, the support provided by the
Simon Family will help to advance innovations and teaching in the area of new
sustainable energy materials and solutions.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

