

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Mitzi Awarded SunShot Initiative Funding to Improve Thin-Film Solar Cell
Materials

October 23, 2014

The award will fund a collaborative research project with Yanfa Yan, professor
of physics at University of Toledo, on solar cells based on hybrid
perovskites.

David Mitzi, a professor of mechanical engineering and materials science at
Duke University, has been awarded a four-year, $1.3 million cooperative award
from the U.S. Department of Energy SunShot Initiative. The award will fund a
collaborative research project with Yanfa Yan, professor of physics at the
University of Toledo, on solar cells based on hybrid perovskites—a combination
of organic and inorganic materials and functionalities within a specific
crystalline structure. The goal is to raise the amount of energy this emerging
class of thin-film solar cell materials can generate per dollar spent to
produce them.

Specifically, the project will seek to demonstrate power conversion efficiency
at levels above 20 percent, mostly or completely replace the heavy metal lead
currently used in the materials with environmentally benign alternatives, and
improve how the materials respond to moisture, air and temperatures in the
field. If successful on all three fronts, the low-cost methods available to
make solar cells with these materials should enable a disruptive solar
technology that ultimately successfully competes with entrenched technologies
on both performance and cost.

The U.S. Department of Energy SunShot Initiative is a collaborative national
effort that aggressively drives innovation to make solar energy fully cost-
competitive with traditional energy sources before the end of the decade.
Through SunShot, the Energy Department supports efforts by private companies,
universities, and national laboratories to drive down the cost of solar
electricity to $0.06 per kilowatt-hour. Learn more at energy.gov/sunshot.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

