

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Mikkelsen Wins Moore Inventor Fellowship to Pursue Hyperspectral Cameras

October 15, 2019 | By Ken Kingery

Small, inexpensive hyperspectral cameras could revolutionize precision
agricultural practices worldwide

Maiken Mikkelsen wants to change the world by developing a small, inexpensive
hyperspectral camera to enable worldwide precision farming practices that
would significantly reduce water, energy, fertilizer and pesticide use while
simultaneously increasing yields. While that goal sounds like a tall task for
a simple camera, it’s one that has now been greenlighted by a 2019 Moore
Inventor Fellowship.

“The Moore Inventor Fellowship is opening a new avenue of research to me,”
said Mikkelsen, the James N. and Elizabeth H. Barton Associate Professor of
Electrical and Computer Engineering at Duke University. “It is enabling me to
explore new applications for my technology that could benefit the environment
and mankind in a profound way, and I am grateful that the Moore Foundation
allows me to pursue those.”

The cameras most people think of and use every day only capture visible light,
which is a small fraction of the available spectrum. Other cameras might
specialize in infrared or x-ray wavelengths, for example, but few can capture
light from disparate points along the spectrum. And those that can suffer from
a myriad of drawbacks, such as complicated machinery that can break, slow
functional speeds, bulkiness that can make them difficult to transport, handle
by hand or place on drones, and costs that range from tens to hundreds of
thousands of dollars.

Mikkelsen, however, is working on an approach that can be implemented on a
single chip, can snap a multispectral image in a few trillionths of a second,
and produced and sold for just tens of dollars.

“It wasn’t obvious at all that we could do this,” said Mikkelsen. “It’s quite
astonishing actually that not only does this work in preliminary experiments,
but we’re seeing new physical phenomena that we did not expect that will allow
us to speed up how fast we can do this detection by many orders of magnitude.”

The physical phenomenon behind Mikkelsen’s technology is called plasmonics—the
use of nanoscale physical phenomena to trap certain frequencies of light.

Mikkelsen and her team fashion silver cubes just a hundred nanometers wide and
place them only a few nanometers above a thin layer of gold. When incoming
light strikes the surface of a nanocube, it excites the silver's electrons,
trapping the light's energy—but only at a certain frequency.

The size of the silver nanocubes and their distance from the base layer of
gold determines that frequency, while controlling the spacing between the
nanoparticles allows tuning the strength of the absorption. By precisely
tailoring these spacings, researchers can make the system respond to any
electromagnetic frequency they want.

To harness this fundamental physical phenomenon for a commercial camera,
Mikkelsen and her colleagues have demonstrated a sort of “superpixel” – a
pixel made from a grid of nine individual detectors each tuned to a different
frequency of light. When any spot on the pixel’s grid captures its specific
frequency, it heats up, which in turn creates an electric voltage in a layer
of pyroelectric material sitting directly below it. That voltage is then read
by a bottom layer of a silicon semiconductor contact, which transmits the
signal to a computer to analyze.

“Commercial photodetectors have been made with these types of pyroelectric
materials before, but they always suffered from two major drawbacks—they
haven’t been able to focus on specific electromagnetic frequencies and have
operated at very slow speeds due to the thick layers of the material needed to
absorbs enough incoming light,” said Mikkelsen. “But our plasmonic detectors
can be tuned to any frequency and trap so much energy that we only need a thin
layer of pyroelectric material, which greatly speeds up the process.”

While the first proof-of-concept experiments will use a three-by-three grid
capable of detecting nine frequencies, Mikkelsen plans on scaling up to a
five-by-five grid for a total of 25 frequencies. And there’s no shortage of
applications that are primed to take advantage of such a device.

Surgeons can use hyperspectral imaging to tell the difference between
cancerous and healthy tissue during surgery. Food and water safety inspectors
can use it to tell when a chicken breast is contaminated with dangerous
bacteria. But the application that Mikkelsen has set her sights on is
precision agriculture. While plants may only look green or brown to the naked
eye, the light reflected from their leaves and flowers outside of the visual
spectrum contains a cornucopia of valuable information.

“Obtaining a ‘spectral fingerprint’ can precisely identify a material and its
composition,” said Mikkelsen. “Not only can it indicate the type of plant, but
it can also determine its condition, whether it needs water, is stressed or
has low nitrogen content, indicating a need for fertilizer. It is truly
astonishing how much we can learn about plants by simply studying a spectral
image of them.”

Hyperspectral imaging could enable precision agriculture, allowing fertilizer,
pesticides, herbicides and water to be applied only where needed. This has the
potential to reduce pollution while saving water and money. Imagine a
hyperspectral camera mounted on a helicopter or drone mapping a field’s
condition and transmitting that information to a tractor designed to deliver
fertilizer or pesticides at variable rates across the fields.

It is estimated that the process currently used to produce fertilizer accounts
for up to two percent of the global energy consumption and up to three percent
of global carbon dioxide emissions. At the same time, researchers estimate
that 50 to 60 percent of fertilizer produced is wasted. Accounting for
fertilizer alone, precision agriculture holds an enormous potential for energy
savings and greenhouse gas reduction, not to mention the estimated $8.5
billion in savings each year, according to the United States Department of
Agriculture.

Several companies are already pursuing these types of projects. For example,
IBM is piloting a project in India using satellite imagery to assess crops in
this manner. This approach, however, is very expensive and limiting, which is
why Mikkelsen envisions a cheap, handheld detector that could image crop
fields from the ground or from inexpensive drones.

“Imagine the impact not only in the United States, but also in low- and
middle-income countries where there are often shortages of fertilizer,
pesticides and water,” said Mikkelsen. “By knowing where to apply those sparse
resources, we could increase crop yield significantly and help reduce
starvation.”

Launched in 2016 to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of Moore’s Law, the
revolutionary prediction that anticipated the exponential growth of computing
power, the program embraces the spirit of Gordon Moore’s passion for science
and penchant for inventing.

This year, the foundation considered more than 200 final-round nominations,
from which five fellows were selected to pursue innovative projects with the
potential to bring about significant change. Each fellow receives a total of
$825,000 over three years as well as networking and entrepreneurial support to
drive their invention forward.

“The Moore Inventor Fellowship recognizes the quality of the individual, as
well as the quality of the idea,” said Harvey V. Fineberg, president of the
Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation. “The ultimate goal is to convert the ideas
into inventions that can change the world.”

## Related News

March 08, 2017

### Mikkelsen, Pajic Receive Naval Young Investigator Program Awards

December 14, 2016

### Nanocubes Simplify Printing And Imaging In Color And Infrared

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

