

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Multidisciplinary University Research Initiative Tackles Synthetic Biology

November 3, 2020

BME's Ashutosh Chilkoti and Lingchong You receive a $7.5 million MURI award
from the Department of Defense

This story was originally published on the Duke Center for Genomic and
Computational Biology Website.

Lingchong You, Ph.D., and Ashutosh Chilkoti, Ph.D., are collaborating with
researchers at Washington University in St. Louis, Princeton University, and
University of North Carolina on a five-year, $7.5 million Multidisciplinary
University Research Initiative (MURI) award from the Department of Defense.

“For the longest time, the central dogma of biology was that structure equals
function,” Chilkoti said. “But some proteins lack that structure, so they had
been considered unimportant.” Research now, though, is showing that is not the
case.

These blob-like proteins have intrinsically disordered regions that go through
phase transitions and can form membraneless organelles – squishy, liquid-like
droplets that have defined phase boundaries but no delimiting membranes.
Researchers are finding more proteins with this phase behavior linked to their
function in cell.

The team wants to know how these droplets are controlled by the surface
properties of the droplet. The overall goal is to uncover the fundamental
design principles that will allow them to design and engineer novel, synthetic
and membraneless organelles.

First, they will investigate naturally occurring systems in the context of
their interfaces to learn the rules. Then they will be able to design
artificial systems. Next, they will take those artificial systems and put them
into cells as a new way to control cell behavior.

“What kind of inspiration can we draw such that we can create synthetic
systems that take advantage of phase transition to program cell behavior for
interesting circuits for practical applications?” You asked.

Chilkoti works with artificial proteins and polypeptides and can make proteins
go through phase behavior. You has been building circuits using existing parts
as part of his research, but now, Chilkoti wants to build You circuits using
new parts for gene circuits that are fueled by phase transitions. This will
allow them to make a cell do something better or new.

One example of its utility could be making bacteria more sensitive to
antibiotics, or in a world where climate change is going to impact the way we
live and grow crops, they could build a circuit that would make plant cells
more heat-tolerant. The opportunities seem limitless.

“This is one of the new frontiers in biology,” Chilkoti said. “This is going
to be a completely new way of doing synthetic biology.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

