

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# The Mystery of the Small Dimensionless Number with a Big Effect

December 22, 2021 | by Andrew Bragg, professor of civil and environmental
engineering

Theory and simulations reveal why seemingly weak effects sometimes play a
strong role in how particles move through the air close to the Earth’s surface

Non-dimensional numbers may sound like a scary, incomprehensible term reserved
for scientists in a laboratory, but you have more experience with them than
you know. The Mach number measures the speed of an object relative to the
speed of sound, so whether measuring in kilometers per second or miles per
hour, Mach 2 is always twice the speed of sound. With the COVID-19 pandemic
still raging worldwide, R0 is an important number constantly in the news that
measures how many people a person will infect over the course of an illness,
whether that time period is days, weeks or months.

In physics, applied mathematics and engineering, non-dimensional numbers are
incredibly important. Researchers use them to quantify the relative strengths
of competing effects in a system. For example, in fluid dynamics, the Reynolds
number is used to quantify the relative strengths of viscous and inertial
forces in pipe flow. Regardless of what units of density and speed are being
used, if its value is less than around 2300, the flow is smooth and regular,
whereas if it’s above 4000, the flow is turbulent and chaotic.

Recently, with colleagues from the University of Notre Dame and Twente
University, I have been looking at the problem of particle transport in the
atmospheric boundary layer. This region of air is the lowest part of the
atmosphere, and its contact with the Earth’s surface directly influences its
behavior. The physics that govern how it churns is of great importance due to
its role in atmospheric processes such as cloud formation and radiation
balances, and the impact on air quality and human health.

Two competing effects determine the vertical motion and concentration of
particles in this region—gravity pulling them down to the ground and turbulent
air that generates drag forces that can lift them up. Researchers often
quantify these competing effects by a non-dimensional settling number, Sv,
which is the ratio between how fast the particles settle in the absence of
turbulence and the characteristic speed of the turbulent air flow near the
surface. The conventional wisdom is that when Sv is very large, the effects of
turbulent winds on the particle motion can be ignored, while when Sv is very
small, the effects of gravitational settling can be ignored.

In a recent paper, our numerical simulations revealed something very
surprising; gravitational settling strongly affected the particle
concentration profiles in a turbulent boundary layer even when Sv was very
small. This perplexing result flies in the face of conventional wisdom. How
can the effect of gravity on the particle concentrations be very strong when
the non-dimensional number quantifying its strength is very small?

We needed to find a way to explain this striking result! To do this, we
constructed an exact mathematical equation for the particle concentration
using what are called phase-space probability density function methods.
According to this exact result, competition between distinct physical
mechanisms determines the particle concentration, and only one of them is
proportional to Sv.

We then performed an asymptotic analysis on the equations, and the analysis
showed that the other mechanisms in the concentration equation depend on
height in such a way that, in certain regions of the atmospheric boundary
layer, these other mechanisms become small compared with Sv. Therefore, even
if Sv is very small, it can still be much larger than the other factors in the
concentration equation in certain regions of the flow.

In fact, the analysis shows that no matter how small Sv is, as long as it is
not zero, there is always a region in the atmospheric boundary layer where its
effects cannot be ignored. This explained the perplexing results from our
numerical simulations.

There are significant implications that follow from this striking result.
First, almost all previous studies have ignored the effect of settling on
particle concentrations when considering the regime where Sv is small, and our
results show that this can lead to very large errors. These studies and their
conclusions therefore need to be revisited.

Second, and more generally, is that one needs to be very careful when
interpreting the meaning and implications of non-dimensional numbers in
physical systems. Our results show that in some cases, the use of non-
dimensional numbers to quantify the importance of a particular effect in a
system can be very misleading, and great care is required.

This work is published in Physical Review Fluids and was supported by a grant
from the Army Research Office, Grant number G00003613-ArmyW911NF-17-1-0366.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

