

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Nan Jokerst elected chair of Duke's Academic Council

February 25, 2015

This article originally appeared in Duke Today

In a competition among friends, Pratt School of Engineering Professor Nan
Jokerst defeated Emily Klein to earn a two-year term as chair of the Academic
Council.

Jokerst, the J. A. Jones Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer
Engineering, will succeed physicist Josh Socolar, beginning July 1. She will
lead the university's 94-member faculty council and chair the council's eight-
member executive committee.

Joining the Duke faculty in 2003 following 14 years of teaching at the Georgia
Institute of Technology, Jokerst has been a leader at Duke in research,
teaching and university service.

She has a long record of participation in university governance, including two
terms on the Academic Council and one two-year term on the council's executive
committee. Jokerst has also served on the Academic Programs Committee, the
executive committee of the Graduate Faculty and on several trustee committees.
She currently is co-chair of the Academic Council Task Force on Diversity,
which is reviewing university diversity policy and procedures. The task force
is scheduled to make recommendations later this year that could lead to new
diversity initiatives.

The Diversity Task Force Steering Committee includes Emily Klein, the faculty
member Jokerst defeated in the election. It was an unusual pairing of two
faculty friends who are working together on the council Task Force. But the
election, done by electronic voting, went off without a hitch.

In a statement, Jokerst said she expected faculty leadership to be active
during what will be a period of transition for the university.

"We have a new provost, a new chancellor of the health system, we are
searching for a new dean of arts and sciences, and we are beginning a
strategic planning process," Jokerst said. "Opportunities for faculty input
abound. In addition to the individual faculty who lead and are engaged in the
planning process, the Academic Council has a significant opportunity to
contribute to the strategic plan."

She also cited the need for faculty engagement in the continuing development
of Duke Kunshan University, discussions of the campus climate, study of
guidelines for the increasing number of proposals for new master's degree
programs and completion of the work started by the diversity task force.

"It is critical to include the faculty voice in the decision making processes
of the university," Jokerst said. "Universities have a tremendous impact upon
our nation and the world, and the faculty has a key responsibility to foster
the intellectual development of our community."

One of the nation's leading researchers of integrated optical systems,
Jokerst's lab has developed applications that are being used in imaging for
breast cancer margin assessment, integrated sensing for biomedical
diagnostics, optical connections for computational systems, and metamaterials.
Much of her research has been in collaboration with other Duke faculty, often
with multidisciplinary faculty in the biomedical sciences. She is a fellow of
the Institute of Electronics and Electrical Engineering and the Optical
Society of America and is the recipient of a Presidential Young Investigator
Award and the IEEE Rigas Teaching Award.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

