

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# NASA Climbs Aboard with Support for Robot Project

June 26, 2020 | By Elizabeth Witherspoon

The robot can autonomously place an IV in an astronaut’s arm for crewed space
missions and to improve access to healthcare on Earth.

Designing a robot to autonomously place an IV in an astronaut’s arm while in
zero gravity requires smart, passionate, persistent engineers. What better
team for the project than Duke physician-engineer Dan Buckland, who is both
assistant professor of mechanical engineering and materials science and an
emergency department physician, and mechanical engineering doctoral student
Siobhan Oca?

NASA is on board with the idea, recently funding their project, “Automated
Vascular Access for Spaceflight,” through its Human Research Program with a
one-year, $150,000 grant.

> “NASA needs to both expand the medical capabilities available on a Moon or
> Mars mission and reduce the number of trained medical personnel required to
> achieve mission objectives.”

Buckland said autonomous medical procedures can further those goals, and that
placing an IV autonomously would be particularly helpful as that’s the first
step of almost any medical procedure or diagnosis.  

This first step of the long journey toward sending the robot aboard crewed
Artemis missions to the Moon, and later Mars, will take place on the ground,
however. By the end of this grant, Buckland and Oca hope to have Institutional
Review Board approval to test the robot on human arms. Hopefully, that will
lead to funding to test the protype during spaceflight.

Robots that insert IVs into patients’ arms already exist, said Oca, but they
all require clinician oversight. The one Buckland and Oca are designing is for
use by someone without clinical training or even a clinician nearby. It uses a
noninvasive ultrasound probe to locate the correct vein—importantly
distinguishing it from an artery. Unlike other robots, though, for human
safety it must also have parts that remove easily for sterilization in an
onboard autoclave or are disposable. The motor, which cannot be superheated in
an autoclave, also needs protection from contamination along with calibration
to operate in zero gravity.

“The system must be easy to clean and easy enough to use that you don’t poke
yourself with the needle. Add to that, it must be lightweight, reliable and
inexpensive,” said Oca. “We’re actually using a fairly low-end, inexpensive
ultrasound—that’s the point.”

This project fits into an all-encompassing dream they both have, which is to
make medicine more accessible, especially in low-resource settings. Space,
with its many constraints and limited onboard supplies, is a low-resource
setting. Others here on Earth include the U.S. Indian Health Service with its
remote locations and shortage of clinicians.

Oca is no stranger to persistent pursuit of her passion amid constraints,
including those that occur without warning. When she was 11, her family fled
the devastation of Hurricane Katrina from their native New Orleans and
resettled in Richmond, Va. During her freshman year at a public high school
for academically gifted students, while on a path to become a doctor in the
footsteps of both her parents, she inexplicably lost a significant portion of
her vision.

With a still unwavering passion to help people through medicine, she pivoted
to undergraduate study of mechanical engineering at MIT and then earned a
master’s degree in translational medicine from a joint program at the
University of California–Berkeley and the University of California–San
Francisco. From there she joined a startup company using her newly acquired
know-how in regulation and marketing to help them commercialize a medical
device.

“I realized though that I want to be the person who helps to decide the
design, and so I decided to go back for my PhD,” she said. That decision
brought her to Duke’s PhD program in mechanical engineering and materials
science in 2018.

“It was such luck that I get to work with Dan, because he wasn’t on the
faculty when I applied to Duke. I kind of fell specifically into medical
robotics because of Dan, and I am very excited that I did,” she said.

This is where her persistence comes in—like a well-developed muscle
strengthened from daily use. She uses her cell phone to magnify documents for
reading and her spatial memory to memorize the layout of icons and commands in
software . She also uses many other effective workarounds that have enabled
her to mentor undergraduate students in making designs for the ultrasound
holder and angling mechanism of the robot using computer-aided design (CAD)
software.

“Every new software I have to use, I memorize where everything is. I know
where everything is in Microsoft Word,” said Oca. She also plays to one of her
strengths, which is coding and programming the human-robot interaction,
because she can more easily enlarge it on a screen.

“I’m passionate about building things to help people,” she said.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

