

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Leila Bridgeman: Controlling the Robots of Tomorrow

November 1, 2017

New faculty member Leila Bridgeman develops the theories underlying the
systems that control autonomous machines

Leila Bridgeman will join the faculty of the Department of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science at Duke University beginning in January
2018. An expert in control systems theory, Bridgeman will explore new insights
into old ideas while applying them to robots and autonomous vehicles in the
Duke Robotics group.

While it is intuitive that any machine making decisions on its own must have
programming that controls its actions, the theory that goes into that
programming is rarely straightforward. Knowing which aspects of a system’s
current condition are needed to keep it operating smoothly and how often they
must be checked requires careful thought and calculation.

Control systems are important to a variety of fields, including autonomous
vehicles, heating and cooling systems, chemical factories and fluid systems.
Even designing and maintaining a regimen of antibiotics to combat an infection
can be thought of in terms of control theory.

Bridgeman describes herself as a control theorist who does robotics. For a
robot’s arm to perform a certain task, it must know how much torque to apply
and how much electrical current that force will require.

“You might think that a good control engineer is primarily worried with
suppressing vibrations or not overshooting its target,” said Bridgeman, who
came to Duke after finishing her doctoral degree at McGill University in
Montreal. “But the first goal is to not destroy the system, especially in the
face of uncertainty.”

Designing such control systems requires a lot of mathematics—specifically
differential equations—to determine what inputs and feedback are needed. One
type of an especially difficult scenario is called open-loop unstable systems,
where the system being controlled gets further and further away from its goal
when nudged off course. Much of the theory in use today is not applicable to
such situations.

> “Duke Engineering really seems to do a lot to support their young faculty,”
> said Bridgeman. “I have also seen a real desire to encourage the recruitment
> of underrepresented groups, which made me feel like I could flourish here."

“But there’s a wealth of theory dating back 50 or 60 years that could
potentially be exploited to expand our existing toolbox,” said Bridgeman.
“Even for systems that are currently understood and work well, if we’re only
using a sliver of the theory available to us, we’re probably not doing as good
of a job as we possibly can.”

One example of control theory that Bridgeman works with is called model
predictive control. These systems attempt to take into account the limits on
the inputs that can be applied to the system—there is only so much power an
engine can provide a car. The controller takes into account where a system is,
determines the best sequence of actions to get to where it’s supposed to be,
takes the first step, and then repeats the process while predicting a little
further into the future.

Another example of control theory attempts to deal with discontinuity in a
system. For example, there’s a distinct difference in how your arm behaves
with an empty hand versus one holding full mug of scalding hot coffee, and
there’s but an instant in time separating the two situations. Designing
control systems that can deal with such sudden discontinuities is challenging.

And for any control system Bridgeman designs, there is always the question of
speed and efficiency. Software that finishes its computations for what a car
needs to do to avoid an accident a split second after the impact occurs is of
little use.

“We need controllers that are nimble, can be applied to lots of different
types of vehicles and account for lots of different variables,” said
Bridgeman.

Having completed her PhD in mechanical engineering in 2016, Bridgeman has
spent the past year at Duke in a postdoctoral role. Taking advice from her
mentor at McGill University, the short stint before beginning her tenure-track
faculty position will give her time to develop extensions of her doctoral
research and help ease her transition.

Duke’s willingness to work with Bridgeman on her timeline was one of the
reasons she chose the university to continue her career.

“Duke Engineering really seems to do a lot to support their young faculty,”
said Bridgeman. “I have also seen a real desire to encourage the recruitment
of underrepresented groups, which made me feel like I could flourish here.

“I have a lot of research interests that are distinct from others at Duke,
which makes me feel like I can make a real contribution to the department,”
continued Bridgeman. “And with so many professors having joint appointments in
different departments, I know I won’t work in a silo and will be able to
pursue a broad range of projects.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

