

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Laura Dalton: Watching Mass Move Through Rocks and Other Hard Places

August 17, 2022 | By Ken Kingery

New Duke CEE faculty member Laura Dalton specializes in imaging the dynamics
of gases and liquids moving through porous materials

Laura Dalton has joined the faculty of the Department of Civil and
Environmental Engineering (CEE) in Duke University’s Pratt School of
Engineering, beginning August 1. Dalton uses advanced 3D imaging techniques to
investigate how mass moves through porous materials like cement and rock and
will bring this expertise to a wide range of projects, including those focused
on carbon sequestration and sustainable material characterization.

Part way through her undergraduate degree in civil engineering at West
Virginia University, Dalton learned about X-ray computed tomography (CT) as a
Mickey Leland intern at the U.S. Department of Energy’s National Energy
Technology Laboratory (NETL).

Already armed with a degree in graphic design, she knew how powerful the right
imagery at the right place and the right time could be. But using images to
help solve challenges as grand and complex as climate change was a novel and
exciting prospect.

“We were looking at all these fascinating dynamics with cements-based and
geological materials to see how carbon moves through and can be trapped within
them,” Dalton said. “It showed me how important different types of imaging can
be to solving a problem, and I really enjoyed it.”

In the years since, Dalton has expanded her imaging repertoire to encompass
techniques far beyond traditional X-ray CT scans. She uses neutron tomography
to obtain data complementary to what X-rays provide. And she recently
completed a Fulbright Fellowship in Finland, where she learned about
electrical tomography—a technique that uses electrical current to peer inside
of an object without harming it.

> “If the cement-making industry were its own country, it’d be the third
> biggest producer of CO2 behind the United States and China. If we can better
> understand how CO2 moves through concrete, we can hone processes to trap it
> and make this common building material much more environmentally friendly.”

Whatever technique Dalton is employing, her goal is to understand better how
liquids and/or gases are traveling through rock-like materials. In geological
applications, her work can help researchers figure out how best to sequester
carbon dioxide (CO2) within geological materials. And in the realm of
construction, her research is focused on offsetting the CO2 emissions from
cement manufacturing by putting CO2 back into concrete in the mineral form to
create a modern, sustainable infrastructure for future generations.

“If the cement-making industry were its own country, it’d be the third biggest
producer of CO2 behind the United States and China,” Dalton said. “If we can
better understand how CO2 moves through concrete and which components of
concrete it wants to react with, we can hone processes to trap it and make
this incredibly common building material much more environmentally friendly.”

Dalton is, in her own words, is “an experimentalist through and through.” She
might visit a geological site to study a certain type of sandstone, or she
might mix up a new concrete recipe in her lab. But at the end of the day,
she’s running physical experiments on these materials to see how they react
and interact with various conditions and substances on a micrometer-scale
level.

Her preference for getting her hands dirty makes her a perfect fit for Duke
CEE. According to Dalton, she’s already listed as a collaborator on three
grant applications with her new colleagues, ranging from investigating how
rocks behave in extreme environments to how researchers might put specific
types of waste back into porous materials. She’ll also have the opportunity to
work with and create connections with her former colleagues at North Carolina
State University, where she recently finished her PhD in civil engineering,
and with colleagues at NETL.

Dalton also plans to play a role in Duke Engineering’s continuing efforts to
increase diversity throughout its ranks as well as engineering as a whole.
Part of the reason she completed her Fulbright in Finland, she said, was to
understand better the challenges facing people moving into a new culture while
trying to work as a professional. She also participated in Purdue University’s
Trailblazers in Engineering program, which focuses on preparing outstanding
scholars who are committed to increasing the success of underrepresented
communities of engineers.

“I learned a ton from the program that I’m going to try to apply to my own
lab, like trying to remove biases from the hiring process by getting rid of
details like names and schools to just focus on the qualifications,” Dalton
said. “I’d love to help other faculty with that if they’re interested, and I
also hope to do a lot of outreach to local communities, especially in support
of women in underrepresented groups.”

Visit Duke CEE

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

