

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# New Program Opens Door for Durham-Based Faculty to Spend a Semester at the
Marine Lab

March 5, 2018

New program supported by the Provost's Office aims to promote greater
engagement between the two campuses

_Originally posted by the Nicholas School of the Environment_

Note: If you are a faculty member interested in learning more about the new
semester-at-Beaufort program, contact Andy Read, director of the Duke Marine
Lab, at aread@duke.edu.

DURHAM, N.C. – It’s not every day that you have to take a boat to get to work,
but that’s what Lee Ferguson had to do when the drawbridge to Pivers Island
temporarily broke at the start of the semester he recently spent at the Duke
University Marine Lab.

Ferguson, whose research focuses on developing new tools and tracers to
monitor marine pollution, is associate professor of environmental chemistry
and engineering at Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering and Nicholas School of
the Environment.

He’s based in Durham but spent the fall 2017 semester teaching and doing
research at Duke’s year-round coastal campus on Pivers Island in Beaufort,
N.C.

His time as a visiting faculty member at the Marine Lab was made possible by a
new program supported by the Provost’s Office that aims to promote greater
engagement between the two campuses by giving Durham-based faculty the
opportunity to spend a semester in Beaufort.

“Coming to the Marine Lab allowed me to engage with colleagues in marine
science and policy – something I haven’t been able to do as much as I would
have liked from my office and lab up in Durham. It also allowed me to take the
time to focus on new avenues for my research and explore new approaches to
teaching,” says Ferguson, who was the first faculty member to take part in the
program.

Andy Read, director of the Marine Lab, says Ferguson’s experience is
indicative of what other faculty members who take advantage of the program can
expect.

“We’re a highly collaborative, tight-knit community of faculty and students,
with state-of-the-art research facilities, small class sizes and full digital
connectivity to Duke’s main campus,” Read says. “Many faculty will find they
can do just about everything here that they do in Durham. The chief difference
is you can see the ocean right outside your window.”

## A Culture of Engagement

Ferguson says he was immediately drawn to the new program not only because he
loves Beaufort and owns a house there, but because he felt it would present an
opportunity to engage with faculty peers and students, and reflect on his
teaching and research, in ways that were not always possible in a larger
campus setting.

“I was able to carve out more time to really focus on synthesizing some of the
things I had already worked on in my research and put them into context with
related research that was going on at the Marine Lab,” he says. “The small
size and informal atmosphere of the Marine Lab made it easy to bounce ideas
off colleagues whose expertise was different from mine.”

During one particularly productive car ride to an off-island meeting, Ferguson
had the chance to discuss his ideas for a new research project with three
Marine Lab faculty members with whom he was riding. They’ll soon be submitting
a grant proposal for that project – a meeting of the minds that might not have
occurred if he was three hours away in Durham.

“There’s a strong sense of community at the Marine Lab,” he says. “Between
Monday morning coffees, weekly seminars, and casual conversations in the
dining hall or on the decks overlooking Beaufort Inlet, it’s easy to get
engaged.”

That culture of engagement extends to the classroom.

## New Perspectives

When Ferguson was considering what course he could teach during his semester
in Beaufort, he noticed there was a coastal marine pollution class in the
books that hadn’t been taught in several years. Drawing upon his own expertise
using high-performance mass spectrometry techniques to track marine
contaminants, and with input from Marine Lab faculty in a wide range of
fields, he updated the course.

“The idea was to approach pollution and anthropogenic inputs to the coastal
ocean from a number of perspectives, including scientific, engineering,
policy, and management,” Ferguson says. Incorporating the policy and
management perspectives was particularly important, given that many of the
students who enrolled in the course were pursuing Master of Environmental
Management degrees in coastal environmental management.

“My research is primarily focused on the science and engineering end, so being
able to call upon colleagues who are the go-to experts on the policy and
management end was a tremendous asset,” he says.

Once he started teaching the course, he quickly learned that in addition to
adjusting the course content, he also needed to adjust his teaching style.

“Because of the small class sizes and interactive learning environment at the
Marine Lab, courses are less about lecturing and more about leading group
discussions and faculty-guided exploration of the issues,” Ferguson says.
“Once I got used to that, I found it was refreshing to get up and not talk at
people for an hour, but to have more of a discussion with them. And I think
the students got a lot more out of it, too.”

Although he was glad that his status as visiting faculty freed him from the
meeting gridlock that can eat up much of a faculty member’s day, Ferguson
emphasizes that he was never more than a telepresence call away from any key
meetings taking place in Durham.

Seeing the ocean and being able to feel the sea breeze through his office
window was also a bonus.

“I don’t want to say I came down here just to look out on the ocean, but it is
definitely a benefit of being down here. If you have an interest in the ocean,
then there is no better place to be,” he says.

As for that broken drawbridge? It was only out of service for a short time,
and Ferguson found that, far from being an inconvenience, taking a boat to
work was a pretty cool way to start his day.

“It sure beats the rush-hour commute in Durham,” he says.

###

This story was written by Courtney Edwards, assistant to the director and
communications and development program coordinator at the Duke University
Marine Lab.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

