

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Christine Payne: Investigating Interactions between Cells and Engineered
Materials

September 21, 2017

New faculty member Christine Payne studies the complex ways cells interact
with engineered materials, from nanoparticles in the environment to
electrically active polymers

Christine Payne will join the faculty of Duke University’s Department of
Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science beginning January 1, 2018. With
research focused on understanding how biological cells interact with
artificial materials, Payne’s work seeks to provide foundations for
engineering new nanoparticles for medical applications as well as
understanding how commercial nanoparticles in everyday products like sunscreen
affect the body. She is also working to design flexible, electrically active
polymers for biomedical applications.

Nanoparticles are already used for many medical purposes, such as treating
cancer and providing contrast for imaging technologies. However, researchers’
understanding of how such nanoparticles interact with cells and proteins is
extremely limited.

“When you put nanoparticles into the bloodstream, it quickly becomes a very
complicated mixture,” said Payne, who joins Duke from the Georgia Institute of
Technology, where she has been a faculty member since 2007. “You can design a
nanoparticle to serve a certain function, but when it gets into the body,
proteins will latch onto its surface and affect how it behaves with cells. And
the nanoparticle will, in turn, deform the protein and affect how it behaves
as well. It’s a complex three-body interaction, and it’s very difficult to
control.”

Payne’s laboratory uses physical experiments to understand these questions.
Students on her research team are often found designing and building
microscopes for techniques such as fluorescence microscopy to view the
interactions of different nanoparticles with cells as they unfold. They also
work with other forms of spectroscopy to discover the impact of protein-
nanoparticle interactions, such as changes in protein structure.

> “I think it will be very good for my research to be surrounded by materials
> engineers. Duke also has a very strong chemistry department—I already know
> several of the faculty there—so it will be great to interact with that
> community as well.”

Besides trying to flesh out the physics of these fundamental interactions,
Payne also tests nanoparticles used in consumer products and industrial
processes to see how they affect cells and proteins. For example, paints,
pigments and white food colorings often contain nanoparticles.

Many of these nanoparticles trigger the body to produce reactive oxygen
species—free radicals such as peroxides and superoxides. A buildup of these
molecules can cause oxidative stress, damaging healthy cells and DNA—the
phenomenon antioxidant foods are supposed to address.

“These experiments are more applied—we’re using common nanoparticles that
people are often exposed to—and a lot of people ask me what this means for
them,” said Payne. “I tell them not to stop wearing sunscreen, since those
nanoparticles don’t penetrate the skin. But my work does raise concerns for
those producing or processing the nanoparticles and potentially inhaling them
on a daily basis.”

In another line of practical research, Payne is developing electrically
conductive polymer wires thinner than a single cell, which could have a range
of applications from treating brain disorders to helping tissues heal. One
example is deep brain stimulation, where wire leads are fed deep into the
brain to relieve motor symptoms of Parkinson’s disease. A smaller, flexible
wire would be less disruptive than the larger, stiffer, metal wires currently
in use.

Payne says she is excited to come to Duke because of the proximity of an
outstanding medical school to the engineering laboratories.

“I also think it will be very good for my research to be surrounded by
materials engineers,” said Payne. “Duke also has a very strong chemistry
department—I already know several of the faculty there—so it will be great to
interact with that community as well.”

As for the teaching side of being a faculty member, Payne has had 32
undergraduates work in her laboratory over the past decade, with many
publishing papers and earning graduate fellowships as a result of their
research. Whether on the undergraduate or graduate level, her lab offers an
interdisciplinary experience to all of her students.

“Whether it’s building microscopes, growing cells, isolating DNA or
functionalizing nanoparticles, my philosophy is that my students get to try a
bit of everything,” said Payne. “Other laboratories might give a more in-depth
experience in a single area, but I take students from most any related
discipline and help them get their hands wet in all sorts of different areas.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

