

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# New Duke Startup Challenge Prize Targets Biomedical Engineering Students

June 6, 2016

Teams competing in the next Duke Startup Challenge will have something new to
shoot for—a $10,000 prize for the best team with an undergraduate or graduate
student from the Department of Biomedical Engineering (BME) as part of its
leadership.

Founded in 1999, the competition is designed to help Duke's entrepreneurial
community flourish with a year-long entrepreneurship competition followed by
an accelerator program.

The first round allows teams to submit ideas to a broad array of alumni and
other judges for feedback. During Round Two, between 45 and 60 teams develop
their ideas into comprehensive pitch decks or business plans. The second round
teams also create a company video and launch an Indiegogo campaign with the
hopes of raising $5,000 via crowdfunding.

Roughly 10 teams from the second round with the highest scores and most
successful crowdfunding campaigns progress to the summer accelerator program,
where they have the chance to work on their startups for 10 weeks. Finally,
these teams compete in the live Grand Finale for the $50,000 grand prize.

Last year, about 80 teams of students and alumni competed for more than 20
prizes ranging from $500 to $50,000. All told, more than 1,000 alumni judges
doled out nearly $150,000 throughout the four rounds of competition.

Of those teams, about 20 percent were led by somebody from BME. But Ashutosh
Chilkoti, chair of BME, thinks they can do better.

“Duke BME is a highly entrepreneurial department with many successful
companies started by faculty, students and alumni,” said Chilkoti, who came up
with the idea for the new $10,000 prize (and has launched three companies
himself). “Sponsorship of this prize recognizes the important role
entrepreneurship plays in defining the culture of the department and
encourages budding entrepreneurs in our student cohort.”

For a team to be eligible for the new prize, it must have have at least one
BME undergraduate or graduate student member involved in its leadership and
development from inception through a potential appearance in the Grand Finale.
And while a team doesn’t need to be in the finals to win the BME prize, the
Grand Prize winner will still be eligible for this new award.

Entries for this year’s competition are due on October 30, and BME students
make great additions to any team. The startup idea does not need to be
healthcare-related to qualify for consideration.

“We are very excited to see an even greater commitment to entrepreneurship in
biomedical engineering and look forward to a closer collaboration between BME
and the Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation at Fuqua,” said Jon Fjeld,
executive director of the Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation. “Working
together, we can provide excellent learning opportunities for our students and
increase the chances that BME research can have an impact on society.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

