

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# A New Dawn for Duke’s Data Scavengers

November 4, 2019 | Miranda Volborth

An undergraduate machine learning enthusiast secures $45,000 to fund a
computing mini-cluster dedicated to student use

Luke Truitt ECE ’21 has spent the last year scrounging for spare graphic
processing units to support his machine learning hobby—even slivers of GPUs
can add up to enough computational power to support a small project.

Machine learning is used widely at Duke, especially in engineering, medicine
and computer science. Anyone whose research hinges on parsing vast amounts of
data is probably taking a machine learning approach—deploying mathematical
models to make inferences or decisions based on sample data, or “training”
data. (When machine learning folks talk about “training their model,” this is
what they’re talking about.)

Duke faculty use machine learning to scan video recordings for fleeting facial
expressions that indicate potential signs of autism spectrum disorder, and to
sort through mountains of clinical records and claims data in search of
patients at risk for medical emergencies. They use machine learning to create
better climate models, and recipes for new materials, like superhard carbon.

Machine learning has taken off in recent years, in part because of the wide
availability of GPUs. GPUs are a kind of computer chip that rapidly process
data, and were originally used to render images, freeing up the central
processor for other tasks. Now, they are also used for AI and machine learning
applications.

GPUs are available as physical components, and also in the Cloud, where anyone
can get access to them—for a price. Some faculty members who focus on machine
learning buy and maintain small GPU clusters of their own, but many choose to
buy into a shared GPU-infused computing cluster administered by Duke’s Office
of Institutional Technology. Costs for the service might easily reach into the
tens of thousands of dollars, depending on the amount of data they need to
process.

But faculty members who pay for that access don’t always use the resource at
capacity—little crumbs of computational power from the racks or credits in the
Cloud might be left over, where undergraduates like Truitt can snap them up.

> Little crumbs of computational power from the racks or credits in the Cloud
> might be left over, where undergraduates like Truitt can snap them up.

Truitt became interested in machine learning last year after a summer stint at
General Motors, where he worked with a team trying to improve manufacturing
processes. “You put an air cap on a tire, but how do you know the cap is
actually secure?” Truitt asked. “Right now they take an image with a camera,
and look at the contrast of the different parts, and it’s very error-
prone—only around 97 percent accurate,” he explained. “So we applied machine
learning for error detection, and we got the number up to 99.7 percent
accuracy. The R&D team estimated that it saved the company something like 50
million dollars a year. Since then I’ve just been trying to do as much with
machine learning as I can, because it’s so cool.”

Starting the Duke Applied Machine Learning Club and seeking out research
projects that could benefit from machine learning helped to scratch Truitt’s
itch. The club is currently working on two projects: cleaning up artifact data
from anomalies like tattoos and metal fillings from brain FMRIs for the Duke
Institute for Brain Sciences, and working with a PhD student in ECE professor
Missy Cummings’s lab to analyze data gathered by a “fidget watch,” which lets
its wearers interact with a watch app when bored or distracted. Information
about the frequency and length of these interaction events, alongside health
data like heart rate and movement data, could help researchers identify
triggers for people with disorders like ADHD.

The club’s FMRI project, said Truitt, runs entirely off of bits and pieces of
scavenged computing.

Truitt wasn’t satisfied with the precarious nature of the computing power
available to the club, so he brought the problem to ECE professor John Board.
The two put together a proposal for Duke Vice President for Research Larry
Carin—himself a noted Duke ECE machine-learning expert—asking for a mini-
cluster of GPUs dedicated to student use. Board thought that OIT might be able
to integrate the extra GPUs into its existing framework, and split them up
using technology developed by OIT’s own Mark McCahill, so more students could
access them at a time.

One day last week, Truitt woke up to an email in his inbox notifying him that
he had been awarded a $45k grant to purchase the GPUs. Half had come from the
Office of the Vice President for Research, and half from OIT.

“I emailed Dr. Board to ask if it was real,” laughed Truitt. “It just solved
so many of the problems we’ve had.”

In addition to computing power, the grant will also fund a website to monitor
the existing cluster, so administrators can track when and how it’s being
used—and Truitt has plenty of ideas.

For one, he thinks the university’s Data+ and +DS classes could benefit from
the GPU addition, along with classes like _EGR 590: Deep Learning_. “Our
homeworks are designed around the fact that we can’t do huge computations,”
said Truitt. “We couldn’t perform cross-validation on our models because it’s
computationally expensive. But if you could schedule one-fifth of a GPU per
student for a week, they could perform that validation, and then pass it on to
the next person.”

The cluster could also fuel plain, old-fashioned intellectual curiosity.

“What would happen if I went back 50 years, selected one company from the S&P
500 every year, saw how the S&P 500 changed, graphed all of that, looked to
see if there was anything unique? That’s just a fun kind of project that I
would want to do on the side. You laugh, but that’s something that I think
would be super-cool,” said Truitt, “and other people will, too.”

MOre News From Duke ECE

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

