

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Kenneth Brown: Connecting Quantum Systems to Computers and the Cosmos

October 4, 2017

New faculty member Kenneth Brown joins a growing group at Duke focused on
building a quantum computer

Kenneth Brown will join Duke University’s Department of Electrical and
Computer Engineering on January 2, 2018. With a long history of working to
understand and control quantum systems, Brown will join a growing effort at
Duke to build a reliable, scalable quantum computer using ion traps—while also
applying the technology to other fields from astrochemistry to biomedical
engineering.

The traditional laws of physics that we experience every day break down at
extremely small scales. Individual atomic particles follow their own set of
rules dominated by surprising concepts such as quantum spin and the Heisenberg
Uncertainty Principle.

Researchers have been working to understand these rules and manipulate an
atom’s quantum state for decades. Now, they’ve progressed to a point where
it’s possible to use these ideas to replace traditional digital computers with
quantum cousins.

The basic building blocks of a quantum device are qubits. These are the
quantum mechanical analogue of a traditional logical bit, which can be in a
“1” or a “0” state, except a qubit can be in both positions at the same time.
While researchers have proven able to build robust qubits, scaling them into
large networks while detecting and correcting errors remains a challenge.

“My work is mostly focused on the theoretical and numerical work needed to
make quantum logic gates more reliable and robust by reducing their error
rates,” said Brown, who joins Duke from the Georgia Institute of Technology.
“We’ve been working with Jungsang Kim for years on collaborative grants, and
moving to Duke will help us combine the experimental progress he’s made toward
robust hardware with the theoretical work my group has been doing to get the
most out of that hardware that we can.”

While there are several technologies being pursued to build quantum computers,
Brown and Kim focus on trapped ions—atoms with electrons stripped away to give
it a positive electric charge. That charge allows researchers to suspend
ultra-cooled atoms using an electromagnetic field in an ultra-high vacuum,
where precise lasers manipulate their quantum states.

> "Moving to Duke is an exciting opportunity to build a robust research effort
> focused on quantum engineering. There are very few programs in that space
> today."

But manipulating ultra-cooled atoms with lasers has other uses as well. For
example, the ion traps can also be used to move and sort individual cells
floating in a single drop of liquid. Brown is also using the method to
discover what sorts of atoms and molecules are in outer space.

“The environment in space is completely different from what you find on
Earth,” said Brown. “High-energy light from stars cause molecules to fragment
and ionize. And it’s not very dense, so you end up with weird molecules
floating around that you’d never expect to see on Earth.”

Brown uses the ion trap technology to recreate extraterrestrial conditions and
conduct measurements on these weird molecules. Astrochemists can then match
that information with observations made about distant solar systems and
nebulae to determine what they’re made of.

But work in the quantum realm isn’t confined to such academic pursuits—as the
potential for applications grows, there’s been a growing demand in the
industrial world for engineers who understand quantum information and quantum
mechanics in the past several years. Brown says he is interested in creating
new engineering courses on these topics and connecting fundamental techniques
of science and engineering to everyday problems.

“I want to expose students to the idea of using classroom tools to study
everyday questions, like what kind of plastic water bottles should we drink
out of?” said Brown. “In terms of larger impact, moving to Duke is an exciting
opportunity to build a robust research effort focused on quantum engineering.
There are very few programs in that space today, and it will be fun to train
students in this emerging discipline.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

