

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Po-Chun Hsu: Engineering Nanostructured Materials to Keep You Cool

September 7, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

New faculty member Po-Chun Hsu designs materials at the nanoscale tailored to
transmit, block and absorb thermal radiation

Po-Chun Hsu will join the faculty in the Department of Mechanical Engineering
and Materials Science at Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering
beginning January 1, 2019. Part of a string of recent hires focusing on
wearable technology, Hsu develops nanofabricated materials with tailored heat
transmission properties for applications ranging from walking down the street
to walking on Mars.

Hsu has spent the past two years as a postdoctoral researcher at Stanford
University—where he also earned his doctorate in materials science and
engineering—working on these novel materials. By controlling their structure
at the nanoscale, Hsu can dictate how they interact with infrared
electromagnetic radiation…or in other words, heat.

This idea is perhaps best illuminated through the title of his research
project for the past few years, “Wearable radiative heating/cooling textiles.”
Working with his PhD advisor Professor Yi Cui, Hsu developed a nanoporous
polyethylene fiber that is breathable and scatters visible light, but is
completely transparent to thermal radiation. He also extended this research
toward active refrigeration for even faster cooling demand for applications
such as buildings and batteries, working with his postdoc advisor Professor
Arun Majumdar.

“If a shirt were made of this material, it’d be like wearing any other normal
white t-shirt, except that there would be no barrier to the transmission of
heat,” explained Hsu. “Whereas cotton absorbs some heat and reemits it back to
the body, this material lets heat pass through fully and completely.”

This technology can be translated to many more applications than the coolest
t-shirt in history. By sandwiching layers with different nanostructures
together, Hsu could make a jacket that lets heat through in one direction but
not the other. That is, a jacket that keeps you cool unless you turn it inside
out, at which point it keeps you warm instead.

Taking this research a step further, these materials could be tailored to keep
out different types of radiation besides just heat. With the right combination
of layers, Hsu envisions a lightweight spacesuit that can keep an astronaut
safe from radiation while also perfectly regulating their temperature on the
surface of Mars. Outside of clothing, these ideas could also be applied to
materials meant to keep satellite components safe and warm, or to energy-
harvesting devices that need to absorb light or heat.

It may sound futuristic, but the simplest implementation of these materials is
already being pursued by a Stanford startup company. As they work to scale up
the manufacturing process, Hsu is looking to push the boundaries of what these
textiles are capable of.

“I’d love to eventually combine an actively controllable form of this
technology with current wearable electronics,” said Hsu. “Imagine if your
smart watch could detect the presence of sweat and then send a signal to your
clothing to help cool you off. That’s the sort of functionality I want to
achieve.”

Hsu is betting that the interdisciplinary nature of Duke University will help
get him there. With faculty experts in the realms of heat transfer, polymer
physics and biomedical applications, there are plenty of opportunities for
collaboration.

It’s the potential practical impacts on daily life that excites Hsu about his
research. And with curious students at Duke willing to help him push the
limits of the technology, he believes we could all be wearing radiative
heating and cooling textiles within the next decade.

“Duke is a special place with a wide variety of talented people,” said Hsu.
“It’s the perfect environment to find inspiration for this kind of
interdisciplinary research.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

