

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Researchers to Monitor Brain Injury with Machine Learning

October 27, 2020

Duke researchers received a multi-year scientific research agreement from
CortiCare to engineer a machine-learning approach to continuously monitor
patients with brain injuries

Neurologists and electrical engineers at Duke University are teaming up in an
ambitious effort to develop a better way to monitor brain health for all
patients in the ICU. Dubbed “Neurologic Injury Monitoring and Real-time Output
Display,” the method will use machine learning and continuous
electroencephalogram (EEG) data along with other clinical information to
assist providers with assessment of brain injury and brain health.

Current practices for monitoring brain-injured patients include regular
clinical exam assessments made every few hours around the clock. However, many
patients are not able to follow commands or participate in the physical exam,
so doctors can only examine gross responses to loud noises, pinches and
noxious stimulation as well as rudimentary brain stem reflexes.

“Not only are these exams often limited in their scope, imaging only provides
a snapshot of the brain at the time the images are taken,” said Brad Kolls,
associate professor of neurology at Duke University School of Medicine and
principal investigator on the new research study.

The new approach will leverage continuous brainwave activity along with other
clinical information from the medical record and standard bedside monitoring
to allow a more comprehensive assessment of the state of the brain. Kolls and
Leslie Collins, professor of electrical and computer engineering at Duke, hope
to improve the care of brain-injured patients by correlating this data with
outcomes. This will allow clinicians to optimize brain function and
personalize recovery.

With extensive experience in combining machine learning applications with
biological signals, Collins will use unsupervised learning such as topic
modeling and automated feature extraction to delve into the novel dataset.

“We have promising results from using this approach to analyze data taken from
sleeping patients,” said Collins. “We’re excited to be able to change the
care, and potentially the outcomes, of patients with brain injury.”

The program is sponsored by CortiCare Inc., a leading provider of
electroencephalography services to hospitals in the U.S. and internationally.
CortiCare has funded this multi-year research agreement supporting the program
and intends to commercialize the work once completed. The program is expected
to run until the fall of 2022.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

