

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Low-Cost, Portable System Takes OCT Beyond Ophthalmology

November 12, 2019

Duke Engineers adapt OCT system to make it useful for minimally invasive joint
surgery

_From The Optical Society_

Researchers have developed a way to perform optical coherence tomography (OCT)
in hard-to-reach areas of the body such as joints. The advance could help
bring this high-resolution biomedical imaging technique to new surgical and
medical applications.

OCT can image structures measured in microns, making it ideal for seeing
subtle changes in tissue that might indicate disease or damage. Although OCT
is now the standard of care in ophthalmology, making a high-quality OCT
instrument compact enough for use inside the body has been challenging.

In The Optical Society (OSA) journal Optics Letters, researchers from Duke
University report how they used a rigid borescope — essentially a thin tube of
lenses — to deliver the infrared light necessary to perform OCT. Measuring
just 4 millimeters in diameter, the borescope makes the beam delivery portion
of the device very slim without sacrificing imaging performance.

"We saw a need for OCT image guidance in arthroscopic surgery, a minimally
invasive procedure that uses an endoscope to address joint damage," said
research team leader Evan T. Jelly. "We took the low-cost OCT imaging platform
we previously developed and adapted it to meet the requirements of this
application."

## OCT through an Endoscope

Working with Adam Wax, Jelly and their research team previously developed OCT
systems that are a fraction of the cost of traditional models. To make an OCT
system that could be used to assess the health of cartilage in a joint, they
created an endoscopic delivery system that uses a prototype rigid borescope to
relay the image from the tissue to a fiber optic connection. The instrument's
narrow front viewing section allows it to reach structures and cavities that
aren't accessible with the larger portion of the device that scans the
patient.

The researchers designed the endoscopic OCT instrument to provide real-time
quantitative information on cartilage thickness without requiring the doctor
to cut or damage the tissue. This type of analysis is important for painful
joint conditions such as osteoarthritis, which develop when cartilage wears
down and becomes thinner.

The researchers tested their OCT instrument by using it to measure the
thickness of cartilage in pig knees. Because pig cartilage is similar to that
of humans, this provided a preliminary idea of how the device would perform in
humans. The system was able to accurately identify the bone-cartilage
interface for samples that were less than 1.1 millimeters thick.

With further development, the device could one day allow clinicians to offer
less invasive treatment of joint problems. However, first the researchers must
show that it can image thicker samples since human cartilage is slightly
thicker than pig cartilage. They also want to further improve the ergonomics
for use during surgery.

"By developing a new portable, low-cost version of OCT, we show that the
success of this imaging approach will no longer be limited to ophthalmology
applications," said Jelly. "With some engineering expertise, this OCT platform
can be adapted to fit a wide range of clinical needs."

Citation: E. T. Jelly, Z. A. Steelman, A. Wax, "Optical coherence tomography
through a rigid borescope applied to quantification of articular cartilage
thickness in a porcine knee model," Opt. Lett., X, XX, XXXX (2019).  
DOI: XXXXXXXX.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

