

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Oh, the Places Grads Go

May 8, 2019

Whether their career ladders lead to industry, academia or entrepreneurship,
Duke BME gives PhD students a leg up on post-grad life

Like many PhD students in Duke University’s Department of Biomedical
Engineering, Erika Moore wasn’t entirely settled on what career to pursue
after graduation. As she worked in Jennifer West’s lab, Moore had explored
research in tissue engineering and biomaterials. Her main research project
involved using immune cells to encourage blood vessel development within
engineered tissue scaffolds.

Initially, she thought this work would lead her towards a career in the
biomedical industry. But after completing an internship at a large company the
summer before her fifth year in the program, she didn’t feel as enamored with
that option.

“I knew I wanted a career I would never get tired of, and a job where I could
interact with different researchers,” says Moore. “Although working in
industry was a beneficial experience, it triggered a period of reflection for
me. During that time I leaned heavily on resources for Duke PhD students to
explore a wider range of career options than I’d previously considered.”

In addition to speaking with West and other BME faculty, Moore attended
seminars offered through Duke’s PhD Plus Professional Development Program,
which prepares engineering students for success in their post-graduate
careers. The sessions gave her an opportunity to speak with a variety of
professionals about different aspects of their jobs: what they liked, what
they didn’t, and what advice they had for imminent graduates. These
conversations, she said, pointed her in a surprising direction––back into
academia.

Since graduating from Duke BME in the spring of 2018, Moore has accepted a
position as the Rising Star Larry Hench Assistant Professor of Materials
Science and Engineering at the University of Florida. During the first two
years of her appointment, Moore will conduct research as a visiting professor
at Johns Hopkins University, where she’ll create her own biomaterials-focused
lab.

“There’s a very robust amount of professional development resources available
to Duke BME PhD students, and I think those resources allowed me to move on to
the next professional level more comfortably than other people do,” says
Moore. “I was also able to meet with my committee members fairly frequently,
and they were very open and encouraging not only for my PhD, but also for
career advice, which was helpful as I was planning to move into my new role. I
was able to make this large network of support in the department.”

Each year, more than half of Duke BME PhD graduates go on to careers in
industry or entrepreneurship, and more than a third continue in academia
through post-doctoral fellow or faculty positions. To support students as they
pursue an array of different career options, Duke BME encourages PhD students
to participate in development programs, like PhD Plus, or attend events aimed
at improving presentation and writing skills. Students can also participate in
interdisciplinary research programs like MEDx, a collaborative program between
the Pratt School of Engineering and the Duke University School of Medicine,
and the Duke-Coulter Translational Research Partnership to broaden their
research collaborations both inside and outside of the department.

“When our students are in the program they are exposed to a diverse range of
research opportunities, and this diversity is then mirrored in the range of
career opportunities available to them after graduation,” says Joel Collier,
the director of graduate studies in Duke BME. “There’s a true spirit of
collaboration in this department, so there are few barriers to the range of
avenues students are interested in.”

This in-depth and collaborative research experience is an asset to graduates
like Robert Kirkton (PhD’12), who completed his doctoral research in Nenad
Bursac’s lab. His work in helping to create electrically active replacement
tissue to “patch” damaged tissue after a heart attack—drew on expertise both
inside and outside the lab.

“When I got to Duke I found myself surrounded by highly motivated and
intelligent people from diverse technical backgrounds,” says Kirkton. “You
could easily collaborate with people that had expertise in molecular and
cellular biology, computational and mechanical engineering, materials science,
or clinical practice, for example. It was a great place for me to see that
when you identify the right team, you can really make a lot of progress on a
problem.”

Kirkton is now the associate director of new product development at Humacyte,
a biotechnology and regenerative medicine company in Durham that develops
tissue engineering products based off research conducted at Yale, MIT, and
Duke University. Although he no longer works with cardiac cells, Kirkton draws
on his lab experience from Duke BME to aid in his current work, which involves
developing off-the-shelf bioengineered human blood vessels that can be
implanted in patients suffering from vascular diseases or in need of vascular
repair or replacement.

“My time at Duke really prepared me for my current role, whether it’s through
my experience with scientific techniques, experimental design, or my ability
to reach out to new contacts and start collaborative projects,” says Kirkton.
“Duke BME taught me that a synergistic effort is required when tackling
complex biomedical issues, and maintaining that collaborative mindset has been
vital to the success of my work at Humacyte.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

