

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Bending Light Around Tight Corners Without Backscattering Losses

November 19, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

New photonic crystal waveguide based on topological insulators paves the way
to build futuristic light-based computers

Engineers at Duke University have demonstrated a device that can direct
photons of light around sharp corners with virtually no losses due to
backscattering, a key property that will be needed if electronics are ever to
be replaced by light-based devices.

The result was achieved with photonic crystals built on the concept of
topological insulators, which won its discoverers a Nobel Prize in 2016. By
carefully controlling the geometry of a crystal lattice, researchers can block
light from traveling through its interior while transmitting it perfectly
along its surface.

The device accomplishes its near-perfect transmittance around corners despite
being much smaller than previous designs.

The Semiconductor Industry Association estimates that the number of electronic
devices is increasing so rapidly that by the year 2040, there won’t be enough
power in the entire world to run them all. One potential solution is to turn
to massless photons to replace the electrons currently used for transmitting
data. Besides saving energy, photonic systems also promise to be faster and
have higher bandwidth.

Photons are already in use in some applications such as on-chip photonic
communication. One drawback of the current technology, however, is that such
systems cannot turn or bend light efficiently. But for photons to ever replace
electrons in microchips, travelling around corners in microscopic spaces is a
key.

“The smaller the device the better, but of course we’re trying to minimize
losses as well,” said Wiktor Walasik, a postdoctoral associate in electrical
and computer engineering at Duke. “There are a lot of people working to make
an all-optical computing system possible. We’re not there yet, but I think
that’s the direction we’re going.”

Previous demonstrations have also shown small losses while guiding photons
around corners, but the new Duke research does it on a rectangular device just
35 micrometers long and 5.5 micrometers wide—100 times smaller than previously
demonstrated ring-resonator-based devices.

In the new study, which appeared online on November 12 in the journal Nature
Nanotechnology, researchers fabricated topological insulators using electron
beam lithography and measured the light transmittance through a series of
sharp turns. Each turn only resulted in the loss of a few percent.

“Guiding light around sharp corners in conventional photonic crystals was
possible before but only through a long laborious process tailored to a
specific set of parameters,” said Natasha Litchinitser, professor of
electrical and computer engineering at Duke. “And if you made even the tiniest
mistake in its fabrication, it lost a lot of the properties you were trying to
optimize.”

“But our device will work no matter its dimensions or geometry of the photons’
path and photon transport is ‘topologically protected,’” added Mikhail
Shalaev, a doctoral student in Litchinitser’s laboratory and first author of
the paper. “This means that even if there are minor defects in the photonic
crystalline structure, the waveguide still works very well. It is not so
sensitive to fabrication errors.”

The researchers point out that their device also has a large operating
bandwidth, is compatible with modern semiconductor fabrication technologies,
and works at wavelengths currently used in telecommunications.

Now the researchers are trying to make a waveguide that can be turned on or
off at will—another important feature for all-optical photon-based
technologies to ever become a reality.

This work was supported by the Army Research Office (W911NF-15-1-0152,
W911NF-11-1-0297).

CITATION: “Robust Topologically Protected Transport In Photonic Crystals at
Telecommunication Wavelengths,” Mikhail I. Shalaev, Wiktor Walasik, Alexander
Tsukernik, Yun Xu, Natalia M. Litchinitser. Nature Nanotechnology, 12
November, 2018. DOI: 10.1038/s41565-018-0297-6

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

