

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Organic Sandwiches Create Quantum Wells for Next Generation Electronics

November 18, 2019

Computational models created by Duke Engineers help researchers probe the
properties of a new class of hybrid perovskite materials

_Adapted from apress release from Purdue University_

Materials scientists at Duke University have used their electronic structure
based materials modeling software on a supercomputer to help demonstrate the
advantages of incorporating uncooperative organic building blocks into a class
of optoelectronic materials called hybrid perovskites.

The models showed that the new materials feature improved stability and safety
while exhibiting a “quantum well” behavior that can improve the performance of
optoelectronic devices such as solar cells, LEDs and optical computers, making
the hybrid perovskites more attractive for use in a broad range of
applications.

The results appeared online on November 11 in the journal Nature Chemistry.

Hybrid perovskites combine the best qualities of organic and inorganic
materials to create new semiconductors suitable to broad applications due to
their unique optical and electronic properties and low-cost manufacturing
methods.

However, they also have some limiting characteristics. Their stability can be
poor, causing them to perform well for a few hours or days, and then decay
quickly. Furthermore, many recipes contain lead-based material, restricting
their usability in wearable electronic devices.

Researchers around the world are constantly in search of new recipes for
hybrid perovskites that can skirt around these limitations. In late 2018,
Volker Blum, associate professor of mechanical engineering and materials
science and of chemistry at Duke, and colleagues at Duke and at University of
North Carolina-Chapel-Hill, demonstrated accurate electronic property
predictions for a series of complex, layered hybrid perovskites using high-
performance computing to help in this search.

Meanwhile, researchers at Purdue University led by Letian Dou, assistant
professor of chemical engineering, developed a method for incorporating long,
complex organic molecules into hybrid perovskites that previously would have
been extremely difficult if not impossible to include. The method adds “side
chains” to the organics to reduce the interaction between the organic
molecules themselves, guiding how the organic molecules fit into the inorganic
structure.

These complex organics possess semiconducting properties, allowing a thin
layer sandwiched between inorganic layers to exhibit quantum well properties.
These types of materials might be used to create compact, fast computer chips,
highly efficient microscopic lasers and optoelectronic devices.

“These structures are very exciting,” said Dou of the new hybrid perovskites.
“The sandwich structures are like those that are widely used today in many
electronic and optoelectronic devices, but they are much easier to produce and
more tolerant to defects.”

While the engineers at Purdue could engineer these new hybrid perovskites,
they wanted to make sure they understood the electronic structure of the
materials and that they would exhibit the desired quantum well behaviors. They
turned to Blum and his supercomputer models to validate their expectations.
And much to everyone’s delight, the models aligned well with the expectations
and experimental results.

“These structures are conceptually similar to those for which we first
demonstrated our approach in 2018, but realize the promise of extending it to
a broader scope of organic molecules with desirable properties,” said Blum.
“These are precisely the sorts of materials we were hoping our models would
help advance.”

In further research, the Purdue team has already shown that these new hybrid
perovskites can be made free of lead while exhibiting increased stability and
performance in a field effect transistor (FET), an electronic device that uses
an electric field to control the flow of current. FETs are used in integrated
circuits in devices such as computers and wireless communications.

The potential uses for this type of material are broad because semiconductors
are the foundation of essentially all electronic and optoelectronic devices
like transistors, solar cells, LEDs, and photodetectors. The new organic-
inorganic hybrid perovskite materials are cheaper and perform better than a
traditional inorganic semiconductor. And the new materials design strategy
could serve as a blueprint for many other functional hybrid materials.

“With our new technology, we can make the hybrid perovskite materials
intrinsically more stable,” noted Yao Gao, a postdoctoral fellow in Dou’s
research group. “By replacing the toxic lead, these new materials are better
for the environment, and can also be safely used for bioelectronics sensors on
the body.”

This research was supported by the U.S. Office of Naval Research, the National
Science Foundation (jncluding the "HybriD3" project, NSF DMR-1729297, centered
at Duke and focused on exploring new hybrid organic-inorganic semiconductors),
the German Research Foundation and the Department of Energy Office of Science.
An award of computer time was provided by the Department of Energy's
Innovative and Novel Computational Impact on Theory and Experiment (INCITE)
Program.

“Molecular Engineering of Organic-Inorganic Hybrid Perovskites Quantum Wells.”
Yao Gao, Enzheng Shi, Shibin Deng, Stephen B. Shiring, Jordan M. Snaider, Chao
Liang, Biao Yuan, Ruyi Song, Svenja M. Janke, Alexander Liebman-Peláez, Pilsun
Yoo, Matthias Zeller, Bryan W. Boudouris, Peilin Liao, Chenhui Zhu, Volker
Blum, Yi Yu, Brett M. Savoie, Libai Huang, Letian Dou. Nature Chemistry, 2019.
DOI: 10.1038/s41557-019-0354-2

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

