

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Outreach Design Education Launches in Duke BME

March 14, 2023 | Michaela Martinez

The immersive design program will help introduce younger students across local
Durham schools to practical engineering concepts

When Aaron Kyle joined Duke Biomedical Engineering in July 2022, one of his
immediate goals was to develop an outreach program that could help younger
students—particularly underrepresented minority students—learn about
engineering and design concepts.

That program has come to fruition in the form of Outreach Design Education, or
ODE for short.

ODE was developed to give students the practical skills to both identify
problems and develop solutions using basic engineering skills. The goal, Kyle
says, is for the students to transform an idea from a far-off concept into a
practical, finished project. In his position as a professor of the practice in
Duke BME, Kyle will work with the Duke community on these efforts, leveraging
the design instructors and student leaders within Duke BME to help him reach
and energize the next generation of engineers.

“My approach to engineering education is finding the best ways to teach
students how to identify and solve a problem,” says Kyle. “When we can make
engineering more accessible and enjoyable to more people, we can make
engineering more comprehensive, helpful and inclusive to all.”

This is not Kyle’s first foray into outreach design programs. He led summer
engineering bootcamps in New York City since 2014, inviting local students to
come into Columbia University’s workspaces and build biomedical devices. Those
programs spanned more than 40 successful projects, and Kyle helped create
seven design-centric high school classes that have impacted over 1000 high
school students.

Now, he’s optimistic that ODE could have a similar impact across Durham and
the larger Research Triangle area. The program will involve three different
educational opportunities: The ODE Hackathon, the ODE Summer Design Camp, and
the Summer Design Camp for Teachers. Held on March 24 and 25, 2023 on Duke’s
West campus, the ODE Hackathon is open to middle school students and their
teachers. Over two days, the students will participate in introductory
engineering design activities and practice using rapid prototyping tools like
3-D printers, laser cutters and Arduino programming to design and create their
own devices.

“There is a lot of literature about when students develop an engineering
identity and persistence, and we’re seeing that middle school is a
particularly critical time for minorities and young women,” says Kyle. “We
want to work with these students at this formative stage, offering short,
design hackathons at Duke throughout the academic year. We hope that this will
be an entry point for younger students, giving the design opportunities in
middle and high school that will motivate them to pursue STEM majors in
college.”

The ODE Summer Design Camp will be held at Duke from June 19-July 20. Mondays
through Thursdays, students will learn about biomedical engineering design
concepts and use the design process to uncover a real-world biomedical
problem. By the end of five weeks, students will have a finished prototype,
which they’ll then present to their peers.

To ensure that this summer program has a lasting impact, Kyle says that middle
and high school teachers from local schools are invited and encouraged to
participate in the design camp, where they can learn how to teach engineering
design to their students during the academic year. On Fridays, teachers can
also participate in the specialized Summer Design Camp for Teachers, where the
ODE program leaders will work with teachers to create design-centric
instructional content that they can take back to their classrooms.

The three programs will all be held in the Duke Engineering Design POD on
Duke’s campus, and the events are free for all participants. Teachers who wish
to participate in the teaching design camp will also be paid for their
participation and subsequent design lesson implementation.

Kyle hopes that the impact of these programs will extend far outside of
Durham. Because ODE is primarily funded by an NIH Science Education
Partnership Award, Kyle will use the different programs to answer research
questions about how engineering design education can impact STEM learning,
identity and persistence in underrepresented students.

“I want to use ODE to foster an engineering identity in students who may feel
like engineering isn’t accessible to them, empower teachers to incorporate
design projects and thinking into their STEM instruction, and hopefully create
a cohort of teachers who can teach engineering design thinking to not only
their students but to their peer teachers as well,” Kyle says. “These
activities, and the research findings that arise from them, will improve the
STEM educational ecosystem for middle and high school students and empower the
next generation of engineers.”

Visit the ODE site to learn more about Outreach Design Education

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

