

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Pajic Wins 2019 IEEE Cyber-Physical Systems Early Career Award

May 22, 2019

Award recognizes a junior researcher who has demonstrated outstanding
contributions to the field of cyber-physical systems with a focus on the
significance and impact of their research

Miroslav Pajic, the Nortel Networks Assistant Professor of Electrical and
Computer Engineering at Duke University, has won the 2019 Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Technical Committee on Cyber-
Physical Systems (TCCPS) Early Career Award. He was awarded for “outstanding
contributions to design and analysis methodologies for high-assurance cyber-
physical systems.” This is his second major research award in 2019, after
winning the Association for Computing Machinery Special Interest Group on
Embedded Systems (ACM SIGBED) Early Career Researcher Award earlier this year.

IEEE TCCPS aims at promoting interdisciplinary research and education in the
field of cyber-physical systems (CPS). CPS, which feature tight interaction of
computing with the physical world, are the next generation of safety-critical
embedded control systems in domains spanning from autonomous vehicles,
industrial automation and advanced manufacturing, to medical devices and
systems, energy-efficient buildings and smart cities.

The IEEE TCCPS Early Career Award recognizes a junior researcher from either
academia or industry who has demonstrated outstanding contributions to the
field of CPS in the early stage of his/her career development with a
particular emphasis on the significance and impacts of the research.

Pajic’s research focuses on high-assurance CPS, creating methods to build such
systems with strong safety, efficiency and security guarantees. For example,
one of his projects focuses on providing safety guarantees for autonomous
vehicles even in the presence of adversarial activities.

His approach takes advantage of a car’s interactions with its physical
environment to detect attacks and provide resiliency against them. For
instance, a digital assailant could compromise the GPS to take an autonomous
vehicle off course. But by using previous sensor measurements combined with
standard security protocols, Pajic and his team have shown that the car can
recognize the false data and act accordingly.

Pajic’s work in this arena, which has been supported by the National Science
Foundation (NSF), Office of Naval Research (ONR), Air Force Office of
Scientific Research (AFOSR) and Intel, has recently earned him several honors,
including the NSF CAREER Award and ONR Young Investigator Award, as well as
best paper awards in top CPS research venues. He is also leading the technical
efforts to design attack-resilient autonomous systems, as part of the new $6
million AFOSR Center of Excellence (CoE) for Assured Autonomy in Contested
Environments.

## Related News

March 25, 2019

### Pajic Receives ACM SIGBED Early Career Researcher Award

March 22, 2017

### Pajic Wins National Science Foundation CAREER Award

March 08, 2017

### Mikkelsen, Pajic Receive Naval Young Investigator Program Awards

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

