

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Deforestation, Erosion Exacerbate Mercury Spikes Near Peruvian Gold Mining

December 12, 2019 | By Ken Kingery

Modeling mercury release from soil erosion could help mine-heavy, deforested
regions create helpful policies

Scientists from Duke University have developed a model that can predict the
amount of mercury being released into a local ecosystem by deforestation and
small-scale gold mining.

The research, which appears online on December 11 in the journal Environmental
Science and Technology, could point toward ways to mitigate the worst effects
of mercury poisoning in regions such as those that are already experiencing
elevated mercury levels caused by gold mining.

“We’ve taken a lot of ground measurements in the Peruvian Amazon of mercury
levels in the water, soil and fish,” said Heileen Hsu-Kim, professor of civil
and environmental engineering at Duke University. “But many areas in the
Amazon aren’t easily accessible, and the government often does not have the
resources needed to test local sites.”

“When you clear the land for mining, it leaves behind a landscape that
basically went from lush greenery to barren desert,” said Hsu-Kim. “You can
easily see the effects in satellite images. If (governments) could use
publicly available satellite imagery to identify areas that are likely to be
contaminated, it could help them make informed policy decisions to protect
public health.”

The past two decades have seen a sharp increase in illegal and informal gold
mining in Peru’s southern Amazon region of Madre de Dios. These small-scale
operations typically involve cutting down all of the trees in a particular
area, digging a large pit and then using mercury to extract gold from the
excavated soil.

After larger, coarse particles are separated, the remaining fine soil is
combined with water and mercury inside a large drum much like an oil barrel,
and shaken. The mercury binds to any gold in the soil, creating a large chunk
that can be easily removed. This chunk is then burned, evaporating and
releasing the mercury into the air while leaving behind pure gold.

Besides releasing mercury into the atmosphere, miners typically add three to
four times more mercury to each barrel than is actually needed, says Hsu-Kim.
While this ensures all of the gold is extracted, it also means there is a
large amount of leftover mercury in the slurry that is inevitably dumped back
into the excavated pit.

And because the whole process started with the clearing of trees, there’s
nothing to stop the mercury-laden soil from eroding into nearby rivers.

“While the local mercury levels might only double due to the mining itself,
the effect of the erosion creates a four-fold increase in the amount of
mercury being released into local rivers,” said Hsu-Kim.

“This means mining practices can hit people three times with mercury—once from
direct contact, once from atmospheric transport and deposition, and once from
soil mercury mobilization due to land clearing,” said William Pan, the
Elizabeth Brooks Reid and Whitelaw Reid Associate Professor of Population
Studies at Duke. “The scenarios we run demonstrate that even if mining were to
end today, since vegetation is unlikely to return for several decades, the
cleared land will continue to release mercury.”

Hsu-Kim and Pan worked with graduate students Sarah Diringer and Axel Berky to
build a model to predict the amount of mercury and other contaminants being
released into rivers. It combines data from a watershed erosion model, local
variables such as annual rainfall, landscape and soil types, and data gathered
about deforestation from satellite imagery.

When they analyzed mercury content in samples of soil and water from nine
locations in the Colorado River watershed in Madre de Dios, they found that
their model accurately predicted which areas were likely to have higher water
concentrations of mercury.

The model suggests that over the last two decades, deforestation has doubled
the amount of mercury entering local water sources in the Colorado River
watershed, and increased it four-fold in the Puquiri subwatershed. Their model
also suggests that if the current trends of deforestation continue, the amount
of mercury being released into the local river systems may increase by 20 to
25 percent by 2030.

While the findings may sound bleak, the fact that the model works does offer
some light at the end of the tunnel.

“We have shared our model with the Peruvian Ministry of Environment and
Ministry of Health,” Pan said. “We are working with them to evaluate whether
our approach can be used as a tool for developing new policies regarding
mining, environmental monitoring of mercury and human exposure.”

This research was supported by the Hunt Oil Company, the National Institute of
Environmental Health Sciences (R21ES026960), the Duke Global Health Institute
(DGHI) Doctoral Scholars Program, and the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, Science to Achieve Results (STAR) Fellowship Program (91778701-0).

CITATION: “Deforestation Due to Artisanal and Small-Scale Gold Mining
Exacerbates Soil and Mercury Mobilization in Madre de Dios, Peru,” Sarah E.
Diringer, Axel Berky, Marco Marani, Ernesto J. Ortiz, Osman Karatum, Desiree
L. Plata, William K. Pan, Heileen Hsu-Kim. Environmental Science & Technology,
December 12, 2019. DOI: 10.1021/acs.est.9b06620.

# # #

## Related News

January 09, 2015

### Mercury from Gold Mines Accumulates Hundreds of Miles Downstream

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

