

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Physics Reveals Some Obstacles Aren’t Obstacles At All

February 7, 2023 | By Ken Kingery

Researchers find that cataracts and turbulence that seem to slow water’s flow
actually facilitate it

Since 1996, Duke Engineering Professor Adrian Bejan has demonstrated numerous
natural phenomena that validate his constructal theory in practice.

In short, the theory states that all flow systems, animate and inanimate,
evolve in such a way as to provide greater access to what flows. This kind of
flow typically takes the shape of a few large conduits attached to many
smaller vessels, whether the phenomena be root systems of trees, effluent
branches of river deltas, or the bronchial tubes that bring oxygen into the
lungs. He’s even gone as far as to show its manifestation in the hierarchical
nature of extraterrestrial objects, wealth distribution throughout a society
and the evolution of the world’s animal kingdom.

But within the past couple of years, two papers caught Bejan’s attention that
seemed to contradict the theory, at least on the surface, and made him
curious.

One from CalTech investigated a phenomenon that Bejan witnessed himself on a
regular basis just outside of his driveway. When water runs down an inclined
surface that can be eroded away, it doesn’t form a single, uniform channel; it
creates a series of cascading pools that seem to hinder its flow rather than
help it.

In the other paper, researchers from Cambridge investigated the nature of
hydraulic jumps, which anyone with a flat sink has seen firsthand. When a
stream of water hits a relatively large, flat surface, it spreads out in a
smooth disk before suddenly giving way to a thicker, turbulent runoff. While
scientists had long believed that this was caused by the effects of gravity,
the Cambridge team showed that it is created entirely from surface tension and
viscous forces balancing the momentum in the liquid film.

These two papers made Bejan consider a third potential contradiction — a thin
sheet of water running down an inclined hard surface. As anyone watching rain
flow down a driveway or sidewalk can see, the water forms a series of ridges
running across the flow’s direction. These lines are thick buildups of
turbulent, rolling water waves that appear to hinder the flow.

With these three seeming contradictions in mind, Bejan put the constructal law
to the test by exploring a series of simple physics models. As the results
published the ASME Open Journal of Engineering show, despite appearances to
the contrary, these phenomena improve the flow, as the constructral law
predicts.

“These papers exploring phenomena that I see at home on a regular basis made
me question the theory,” said Bejan, the J.A. Jones Distinguished Professor of
Mechanical Engineering at Duke. “But when I sat down and ran through the
equations, I realized these effects are their own animal.”

Solving the apparent contradiction in all three systems essentially comes down
to a single fact; water travels with more momentum in a turbulent freefall
than it does flowing smoothly over a surface.

For the sink-based hydraulic jumps, Bejan found that, while it may seem more
efficient for water to spread out in a smooth disk, a thicker, turbulent layer
actually increases the flow of momentum across the fluid layer. The hydraulic
jump is a visual display of the transition to turbulent flow, and that
turbulence, according to Bejan, is predictable and no longer a mystery.

Bejan then puts together a long list of features of turbulent flow predicted
by invoking the constructal law.

In the case of the hard inclined surface, Bejan draws a diagram and explores
the forces at work, including friction working against the water as it flows.
He found that the roll waves are self-created “cliffs” that allow the water to
roll over and fall freely for a short distance, increasing the momentum of the
water and thus its overall flow rate.

A similar method of action is responsible for the series of cascading pools,
because water falls over a dam more efficiently than when it slides down an
incline. If water flows on an erodible surface, it will create a series of
dams to fall over. This same idea can be seen in the design of pumped storage
hydropower systems, where water is stored in a large reservoir and then
released to travel through a turbine before reaching a second reservoir at a
lower elevation. In these systems, the water travels vertically rather than on
an incline because it produces a greater flow rate.

“The best physics can be proven with simple physics,” Bejan said. “At first
glance, these systems would seem to be impeding the system’s flow. But it’s
not speed that’s important, it’s momentum transfer. These examples go to show
how important it is for researchers to question observations and consensus.”

CITATION: “Theory of Flow Access with Apparent Obstacles: Cascades, Jumps,
Roll Waves, and Turbulence,” Adrian Bejan. AOJE, 2022. DOI: 10.1115/1.4054473

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

