

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Light-Trapping Nanocubes Drive Inexpensive Multispectral Camera

November 25, 2019 | By Ken Kingery

Plasmonic light detector could revolutionize multispectral imaging for cancer,
food safety and agriculture

Researchers at Duke University have demonstrated photodetectors that could
span an unprecedented range of light frequencies by using on-chip spectral
filters created by tailored electromagnetic materials. The combination of
multiple photodetectors with different frequency responses on a single chip
could enable lightweight, inexpensive multispectral cameras for applications
such as cancer surgery, food safety inspection and precision agriculture.

A typical camera only captures visible light, which is a small fraction of the
available spectrum. Other cameras might specialize in infrared or ultraviolet
wavelengths, for example, but few can capture light from disparate points
along the spectrum. And those that can suffer from a myriad of drawbacks, such
as complicated and unreliable fabrication, slow functional speeds, bulkiness
that can make them difficult to transport, and costs up to hundreds of
thousands of dollars.

In research appearing online on November 25 in the journal Nature Materials,
Duke researchers demonstrate a new type of broad-spectrum photodetector that
can be implemented on a single chip, allowing it to capture a multispectral
image in a few trillionths of a second and be produced for just tens of
dollars. The technology is based on physics called plasmonics—the use of
nanoscale physical phenomena to trap certain frequencies of light.

“The trapped light causes a sharp increase in temperature, which allows us to
use these cool but almost forgotten about materials called pyroelectrics,”
said Maiken Mikkelsen, the James N. and Elizabeth H. Barton Associate
Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Duke University. “But now
that we’ve dusted them off and combined them with state of the art technology,
we’ve been able to make these incredibly fast detectors that can also sense
the frequency of the incoming light.”

According to Mikkelsen, commercial photodetectors have been made with these
types of pyroelectric materials before, but have always suffered from two
major drawbacks. They haven’t been able to focus on specific electromagnetic
frequencies, and the thick layers of pyroelectric material needed to create
enough of an electric signal have caused them to operate at very slow speeds.

“But our plasmonic detectors can be turned to any frequency and trap so much
energy that they generate quite a lot of heat,” said Jon Stewart, a graduate
student in Mikkelsen’s lab and first author on the paper. “That efficiency
means we only need a thin layer of material, which greatly speeds up the
process.”

The previous record for detection times in any type of thermal camera with an
on-chip filter, whether it uses pyroelectric materials or not, was 337
microseconds. Mikkelsen’s plasmonics-based approach sparked a signal in just
700 picoseconds, which is roughly 500,000 times faster. But because those
detection times were limited by the experimental instruments used to measure
them, the new photodetectors might work even faster in the future.

To accomplish this, Mikkelsen and her team fashioned silver cubes just a
hundred nanometers wide and placed them on a transparent film only a few
nanometers above a thin layer of gold. When light strikes the surface of a
nanocube, it excites the silver's electrons, trapping the light's energy—but
only at a specific frequency.

The size of the silver nanocubes and their distance from the base layer of
gold determine that frequency, while the amount of light absorbed can be tuned
by controlling the spacing between the nanoparticles. By precisely tailoring
these sizes and spacings, researchers can make the system respond to any
electromagnetic frequency they want.

To harness this fundamental physical phenomenon for a commercial hyperspectral
camera, researchers would need to fashion a grid of tiny, individual
detectors, each tuned to a different frequency of light, into a larger
‘superpixel’.

In a step toward that end, the team demonstrates four individual
photodetectors tailored to wavelengths between 750 and 1900 nanometers. The
plasmonic metasurfaces absorb energy from specific frequencies of incoming
light and heat up. The heat induces a change in the crystal structure of a
thin layer of pyroelectric material called aluminium nitride sitting directly
below them. That structural change creates a voltage, which is then read by a
bottom layer of a silicon semiconductor contact that transmits the signal to a
computer to analyze.

“It wasn’t obvious at all that we could do this,” said Mikkelsen. “It’s quite
astonishing actually that not only do our photodetectors work, but we’re
seeing new, unexpected physical phenomena that will allow us to speed up how
fast we can do this detection by many orders of magnitude.”

Mikkelsen sees several potential uses for commercial cameras based on the
technology, because the process required to manufacture these photodetectors
is relatively fast, inexpensive and scalable.

Surgeons might use multispectral imaging to tell the difference between
cancerous and healthy tissue during surgery. Food and water safety inspectors
could use it to tell when a chicken breast is contaminated with dangerous
bacteria.

With the support of a new Moore Inventor Fellowship from the Gordon and Betty
Moore Foundation, Mikkelsen has set her sights on precision agriculture as a
first target. While plants may only look green or brown to the naked eye, the
light outside of the visible spectrum that is reflected from their leaves
contains a cornucopia of valuable information.

“Obtaining a ‘spectral fingerprint’ can precisely identify a material and its
composition,” said Mikkelsen. “Not only can it indicate the type of plant, but
it can also determine its condition, whether it needs water, is stressed or
has low nitrogen content, indicating a need for fertilizer. It is truly
astonishing how much we can learn about plants by simply studying a spectral
image of them.”

Hyperspectral imaging could enable precision agriculture by allowing
fertilizer, pesticides, herbicides and water to be applied only where needed,
saving water and money and reducing pollution. Imagine a hyperspectral camera
mounted on a drone mapping a field’s condition and transmitting that
information to a tractor designed to deliver fertilizer or pesticides at
variable rates across the fields.

It is estimated that the process currently used to produce fertilizer accounts
for up to two percent of the global energy consumption and up to three percent
of global carbon dioxide emissions. At the same time, researchers estimate
that 50 to 60 percent of fertilizer produced is wasted. Accounting for
fertilizer alone, precision agriculture holds an enormous potential for energy
savings and greenhouse gas reduction, not to mention the estimated $8.5
billion in direct cost savings each year, according to the United States
Department of Agriculture.

Several companies are already pursuing these types of projects. For example,
IBM is piloting a project in India using satellite imagery to assess crops in
this manner. This approach, however, is very expensive and limiting, which is
why Mikkelsen envisions a cheap, handheld detector that could image crop
fields from the ground or from inexpensive drones.

“Imagine the impact not only in the United States, but also in low- and
middle-income countries where there are often shortages of fertilizer and
water,” said Mikkelsen. “By knowing where to apply those sparse resources, we
could increase crop yield significantly and help reduce starvation.”

This research was supported by the Air Force Office of Scientific Research
(FA9550-18-1-0326, FA9550-17-1-0002) and the National Defense Science &
Engineering Graduate Fellowship Program.

CITATION: “Ultrafast Pyroelectric Photodetection with On-Chip Spectral
Filters,” Jon W. Stewart, Jarrett H. Vella, Wei Li, Shanhui Fan, and Maiken H.
Mikkelsen. Nature Materials, Nov. 25, 2019. DOI: 10.1038/s41563-019-0538-6

## Related News

October 15, 2019

### Mikkelsen Wins Moore Inventor Fellowship to Pursue Hyperspectral Cameras

December 14, 2016

### Nanocubes Simplify Printing And Imaging In Color And Infrared

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

