

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Rate of Change Podcast

A podcast from Duke Engineering, dedicated to the ingenious ways that
engineers are solving society's toughest problems

Listen below or subscribe to _Rate of Change_ in Apple Podcasts or Google
Podcasts.

* * *

## Season 4

### The Inescapable Need for Freedom

MEMS professor Adrian Bejan escaped the Iron Curtain to pursue his dreams.
Listen to discover how his freedom led him to formulate constructal theory,
which connects physics to evolution through the freedom of change.

Episode transcript »

Rate of Change · The Inescapable Need for Freedom

### Resonance

She’s an analyst. He’s an algebrist. She loves displays of unbridled
creativity; he has journaled every day for thirty years. Between the two of
them, Duke power couple Ingrid Daubechies and Robert Calderbank have changed
the way society shares and processes information.

Episode transcript »

Rate of Change · Resonance

### Multiplying Microscopes

Today, researchers use a variety of imaging techniques to visualize and
analyze biological systems, but there are limits to how much—and how
well—these tools can see. But Duke BME’s Roarke Horstmeyer and his team are
creating new microscopes and imaging algorithms to capture biomedical images
at never-before-seen scales.

Episode transcript »

Rate of Change · Multiplying Microscopes

### What Makes a Happy Community?

Duke CEE faculty member Andrew Jones investigates how and where bacterial
communities thrive in the built environment—and imagines a future water smart
grid that’s accessible to everyone.

Episode transcript »

Rate of Change · What Makes a Happy Community?

* * *

## Season 3

### Turning Photons into Soundwaves

Duke Biomedical Engineering professor Junjie Yao has helped pioneer the field
of photoacoustic imaging, which uses light and sound to create detailed and
informative biological images of everything from a single cell to an entire
body.

Episode transcript »

### How Re-engineered Ketchup Packets Are Saving Babies Worldwide

Duke Biomedical Engineering Professor Emeritus Bob Malkin and a string of
undergraduates have built a program to deliver anti-HIV medication to birthing
mothers in rural settings around the world

Episode transcript »

### Reversing Bone Loss Due to Osteoporosis

Current drugs for osteoporosis can only slow or stop progression of bone loss.
What’s gone is gone. Duke University Professor Shyni Varghese has built a new
molecule that rebuilds bone—and may transform osteoporosis treatment.

Episode transcript »

### The Chemical Detective

What’s in our drinking water? Duke professor of civil and environmental
engineering Lee Ferguson uses non-targeted analysis to gather clues about
chemical contaminants, making it possible to identify them and trace them back
to their points of origin.

Episode transcript »

* * *

## Season 2

### Of Potholes and Budget Holes

A conversation with Henry Petroski on the current state of disrepair of
America’s roads and bridges, why fixing them may require unpopular politics,
and what the future might hold for their improvement

Episode transcript »

### Reclaiming Water from Waste

Washing our hands with soap and running water for at least twenty seconds
helps prevent the spread of pathogens. For areas of the world where water is
scarce, ECE faculty member Brian Stoner and his colleagues at WaSH-AID are
reclaiming usable water from an unlikely source.

Episode transcript »

### Safe Hygiene for Everyone, Period

Women and girls* are disproportionately affected when access to safely managed
sanitation is lacking. Duke ECE engineer Sonia Grego wants to change that.

Episode transcript »

### The Blind Spots in Our Biomedical Data

Between measuring our activity levels, heart rate and sleeping schedules,
today’s smart watches seem to give us a better picture of our overall health.
Duke BME’s Jessilyn Dunn explores the endless potential—and hidden
limitations—of this data.

Episode transcript »

### How to Catch COVID-19

If the last year has shown us anything, it’s that fast and accurate diagnostic
tests are key for helping to control the spread of a dangerous disease. In
this episode, BME’s Ashutosh Chilkoti and his PhD students explain how the
lab’s signature diagnostic platform is being modified to quickly and
accurately detect COVID-19.

Episode transcript »

### In the Kitchen with NanoMine

If discovering and designing next-gen materials is like cooking, Duke engineer
Cate Brinson is writing the materials cookbook.

Episode transcript »

* * *

## Season 1

### Season 1 Trailer

Rate of Change is a new podcast from Duke Engineering, dedicated to the
ingenious ways that engineers are solving society's toughest problems.

Episode transcript »

### Air Quality, Quick and Dirty

Air pollution degrades everything from cultural heritage sites like the Taj
Mahal, to solar energy production. Duke civil and environmental engineering
professor Mike Bergin is trying to fill in some of the knowledge gaps about
what the pollution is and where it comes from, to better manage its effects.

Episode transcript »

### End Transmission

Duke professor David Katz works at the intersection of biomedical engineering
and reproductive health. His research informs efforts to prevent the
transmission of sexually transmitted diseases—most notably human
immunodeficiency virus, or HIV.

Episode transcript »

### Opening the Black Box

Cynthia Rudin is a professor of computer science and electrical and computer
engineering at Duke University, and an outspoken critic of using black box
algorithms for high-stakes decisions.

Episode transcript »

### Scratch-Made Muscle

Duke professor of biomedical engineering Nenad Bursac is learning how muscles
can recover from injury, by using stem cells to create new muscles from
scratch.

Episode transcript »

### The World's Coolest T-Shirt

Materials engineer Po-Chun Hsu is developing textiles that heat and cool at
the personal level—a scaled-back approach to climate control that could help
curb emissions in the U.S.

Episode transcript »

_The Apple logo is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other
countries. Google Podcasts and the Google Podcasts logo are trademarks of
Google LLC._

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

