

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Pranam Chatterjee: Engineering the Reproductive System, One Protein at a
Time

September 30, 2021 | Michaela Kane

New faculty member Pranam Chatterjee uses AI to design proteins that promote,
preserve and prolong reproductive health

Pranam Chatterjee will join Duke University’s Department of Biomedical
Engineering beginning July 1, 2022. By using computational methods to design
new and useful proteins for stem cell engineering, Chatterjee explores how to
develop cells and tissues that can improve reproductive longevity and
fertility.

Chatterjee earned his PhD from the MIT Media Lab, where he integrated
experimental and computational methods to develop powerful CRISPR-Cas9 genome
editing enzymes. Similar approaches also helped him create novel peptide
formulations that can degrade specific targets, like pathogenic proteins
produced by certain types of cancer or viral proteins produced by SARS-CoV-2,
the virus that causes COVID-19.

Currently the Carlos Varsavsky Research Fellow at Harvard Medical School,
Chatterjee works in the lab of George Church, who is widely recognized for his
numerous contributions to genomic science, chemistry and bioengineering.
Chatterjee’s primary focus in the lab involves using state-of-the-art
algorithms and high-throughput screening methods to both identify and design
natural transcription factor proteins for stem cell engineering. These
transcription factors help guide the evolution of pluripotent stem cells into
targeted cell types, like neurons, lung cells or skin cells.

But in his new role at Duke, Chatterjee will explore how to design novel
transcription factors to more efficiently guide stem cells as they evolve into
cell types found in the reproductive system.

“We’re interested in bringing our protein design and engineering capabilities,
whether it’s in genome editing, protein modulation or cell state engineering,
to the field of reproductive biology, which is a new, exciting frontier for
this work,” says Chatterjee. “The big goals of my lab will be to promote,
preserve and prolong reproductive health spans.”

According to Chatterjee, this means the lab’s projects could range from
designing new transcription factors that can more efficiently turn stem cells
into oocytes­­–– the cells produced by ovaries that mature into eggs–– to
generating new ovarian tissue. These approaches would ideally be used to help
address issues caused by infertility or help lengthen a woman’s reproductive
timeline.

“We have a long way to go before there are any specific clinical applications
of this work,” Chatterjee says. “But we’re building the design principles that
will enable us to get to those end goals.”

Although his work in reproductive biology will be a relatively new research
area for Duke BME, Chatterjee is already looking forward to prospective
collaborations with several faculty, like Charles Gersbach, who has helped
pioneer the CRISPR gene-editing technology, and Samira Musah, who uses
pluripotent stem cells to study kidney disease and other kidney-related
issues. Chatterjee also sees potential for collaborating with Daniel Reker,
who similarly uses machine learning and other computational approaches to
design and develop small molecules and drugs for use as potential therapies
for cancer or infectious diseases.

“The work that I do is very interdisciplinary, and I was really drawn to Duke
BME because the department has cultivated a very collaborative culture, where
you’re encouraged to work with diverse research groups,” says Chatterjee. “And
with the medical school so close by, I’m also going to be able to work with
experts in reproductive biology and fertility. My lab wants to solve these big
ambitious problems, and I’m excited to have access to a large resource of
experts to help accomplish those goals.”

Chatterjee’s transition to Duke also provides him with a new opportunity to
serve as a mentor to a new community of students.

“I want students to be inspired by the material and to retain information that
will be directly helpful to them as they progress through Duke and into their
careers. If I can accomplish those two things, then everything else is a
bonus,” says Chatterjee. “I come from a big family of teachers, so I’ve always
really enjoyed teaching. I find that while it’s exciting to do the research,
it’s even more exciting to teach students who are going to become the next
generation of scientists.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

