

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Pratt Civil Engineering Senior Receives 2016 Sullivan Award

May 1, 2017

Lauren Harper was recognized for her generosity, character and integrity.

_This article first appeared inDuke Today._

Duke offered fertile ground for the generous spirit Pratt senior Lauren Harper
to make a difference. And that difference was honored Friday when Harper and
Professor Rick Hoyle and each received an Algernon Sydney Sullivan Award.

The award recognizes one graduating senior and one member of the faculty,
staff or graduate student body of Duke University and Duke University Health
System for their outstanding commitment to service.

“It’s really a great pleasure to be able to call out those in the community
who are really making a difference,” Provost Sally Kornbluth said. “Not only
to honor them, but to show that this is a model of how we want our community
to be.”

Hoyle and Harper were presented with framed certificates and medallions by
Kornbluth.

The award was established in 1925 to honor the memory of Sullivan, a
southerner who became a prominent lawyer, businessman and philanthropist in
New York in the late nineteenth century. It aims to perpetuate the excellence
of character and humanitarian service of Sullivan by recognizing and honoring
such qualities in others.

Harper, a senior studying civil engineering in the Pratt School of
Engineering, was singled out for her welcoming spirit and active role in
Duke’s faith community.

“It’s nice, it’s a good way to stop and reflect on the ways I’ve been involved
in communities on campus and how they have shaped me,” Harper said of the
award.

Since her first year on campus, she’s been a driving force in Duke
Presbyterian Campus Ministry. Always contemplating the connection between her
faith, academics and values, she’s backed up her beliefs with action.

She’s been a fixture at Duke University Chapel, participating in weekly
worship, fellowship activities and service events. This year. She’s served as
co-president of Voices for Interfaith Action. Whether it was working for
Habitat for Humanity or bagging lunches for Urban Ministries, she was always
ready to help.

“Few students embody the characteristics of this award – generosity,
character, spirituality, and integrity – as well as Harper does,” wrote
nominator Christy Lohr Sapp, Associate Dean for Religious Life at Duke
University Chapel. “She is a blessing to the Duke community and a model of
selflessness and service.”

A member of Ubuntu, a diverse on-campus living community, and someone who has
built friendships with people of other faiths and sexual orientations, she’s
taken the approach that the world won’t change if you limit whom you connect
with.

She said she was grateful to find many welcoming people at Duke and has made a
conscious effort to be similarly welcoming to others.

“Her humor, compassion, genuine willingness to listen to others and joyful
spirit are infectious and inspire others to be more like her,” wrote
Presbyterian Campus Minister Rev. Katie Owen Aumann.

Hoyle, a professor in the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience, was
honored for the positive impact he’s left on his students and colleagues
during his decade at Duke.

“It’s a neat award,” Hoyle said. “I guess if you’re going to be recognized for
anything, it’s gratifying to be recognized for making a difference in that
way.”

Read more about the awards on Duke Today.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

