

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Pratt Senior Represents Duke on College Jeopardy! February 11

January 31, 2014

It may have taken seven years to ace the online quiz, but once Cameron Kim got
to audition for a spot on Jeopardy’s college tournament, he made the most of
it.

The biomedical engineering senior at Duke nailed the in-person interview and
will appear on the long-running game show February 11 at 7:00 pm, locally on
channel ABC-11.

“There were a lot of other contenders there who had already done the interview
part two or three times before,” said Kim, who was one of the lucky 300 or 400
semi-finalists selected out of more than 12,000 hopefuls. “But I went into it
just trying to have a good time and enjoy myself and hoping that would help me
succeed.”

The initial stages of the Jeopardy process flew by. Kim took the online quiz
in March and was emailed in April for the interview in Nashville, which took
place the following month in May. But after the whirlwind was over, he had to
wait for a phone call sometime in November to see if he was one of the 15
finalists selected to appear on the show.

On the Monday before Thanksgiving, Kim was headed to class having just talked
with his visiting mother that day about his diminishing chances, figuring he’d
already missed his chance. But then he got a call from a strange area code.

“Luckily I was getting close to my parking lot when the call came, because my
hands were shaking and I had to pull over,” recalls Kim. “I thought maybe they
had made a mistake or were calling to say I was the worst interviewee and
offer me a booby prize. But it was the call to fly to Los Angeles. After I
hung up I just screamed in the car—I had to let something out.”

Kim’s mother and sister flew out with him to Los Angeles for the filming. All
15 finalists played the first day, with those yet to see the stage waiting in
seclusion so as to not know the results of the previous rounds.

The winners of the first five contests in the quarterfinals moved on to the
semifinals, as did the next four highest scorers. If later contestants knew
what score they had to beat to move on, it would affect their play and give
them an unfair advantage. After playing, however, the contestants sat in the
audience, watched the others compete and sweated it out, waiting to see if
they’d scored enough to move on.

“It was a surreal experience,” said Kim. “It’s been my dream to be on Jeopardy
for a long time. Once I was up there, I wasn’t exactly star-struck, but I had
to force myself to pay attention and focus. Otherwise, I would have been
floating on air the entire time.”

Kim isn’t allowed to say how he fared, or whether or not he will appear in the
second week of the tournament, where the champion wins the grand prize of
$100,000. Nor did he mention whether the categories of genome editing and
synthetic biology came into play. If they did, Kim would have had a distinct
advantage--he’s graduating in May with degrees in biomedical engineering and
mathematics and a certificate in genome science and policy. He’s conducted
research on engineering new proteins and editing genes to correct disorders as
a Pratt Research Fellow for three years under the tutelage of Charles
Gersbach, assistant professor of biomedical engineering.

No matter what the categories were or how Kim did, however, he made the most
of his time on the West Coast.

“Until I flew to Los Angeles, the furthest west I’d been was Nashville, and
that was for the first Jeopardy interview,” said Kim, who is now traveling the
country and interviewing for graduate schools. “Everyone was so friendly—we
all wanted to win, obviously, and a little extra money never hurts—but we all
made some awesome friends in those few days. You put 15 really passionate
people in the same room who are all fulfilling their life dreams and it’s
really cool the connections that you make.

“Everyone wanted to represent their school well and everyone played
fantastically,” continued Kim. “It was an awesome tournament and I think that
viewers will have a great time watching it.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

