

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Tiny Packet Is Making a Big—and Growing—Dent in Childhood HIV

August 8, 2017

The Pratt Pouch is expanding its reach in Ecuador and a new initiative will
bring the pouch to Uganda

_From theDuke Global Health Institute_

Developed in 2008, the Pratt Pouch—a ketchup packet-like pouch of
antiretroviral drugs—has already saved thousands of lives in Ecuador, Zambia
and Tanzania. And now, its reach is expanding in Ecuador and a new initiative
will bring the pouch to Uganda.

The Pratt Pouch, named after Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering, is a small
packet of antiretroviral drugs that HIV-positive mothers can squeeze into
their newborns’ mouths to help prevent mother-to-child HIV transmission. The
pouch, which made the World Health Organization’s list of Top 10 Most
Innovative Health Technologies in 2012, was developed by Robert Malkin,
professor of biomedical engineering and global health, in collaboration with
undergraduate engineering students.

Malkin is now working with undergraduates and community partners to make the
pouch commonplace for HIV-positive mothers in Ecuador and Uganda.

## ECUADOR GOAL: REACH 80 PERCENT OF BABIES BORN TO HIV-POSITIVE MOMS

Currently, the Pratt Pouch is being used in Guayaquil, Ecuador’s largest city,
to cover about twenty percent of births to HIV-positive women in the country.
A new grant from a partnership between GSK and Save the Children will enable
Malkin’s team and their partners to offer the pouch in Quito, increasing
coverage to about eighty percent.

Ecuador is a strategic location for pouch use expansion. “In Ecuador, every
woman is tested for HIV when she comes into a hospital for pre-natal care or a
birth, so we’re able to reach a high percentage of HIV-positive women with the
pouch,” Malkin said.

Pouches are filled manually at local pharmacies, so the scale-up is not very
difficult from an engineering perspective, Malkin shared. The challenge, he
said, lies in the implementation—particularly the prospect of getting all of
the stakeholders to work together. “This is a completely new way of packaging
and delivering medications, requiring government agencies, hospitals and HIV
support groups to cooperate and collaborate in new ways and, in some cases,
for the first time,” Malkin said.

Additionally, nurses and doctors must be trained to instruct mothers on how to
use the pouch. Given high staff turnover rates, the training has to be
efficient and repeatable.

The expansion is being managed by Fundación VIHDA, an organization based in
Guayaquil that provides HIV services and works with the Ecuadorian Ministry of
Health to improve HIV care in the country.

## UGANDA MODEL WILL AUTOMATE POUCH FILLING

Meanwhile, with funding from USAID, Malkin is collaborating with the Elizabeth
Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation, the Ugandan Ministry of Health and a number
of other stakeholders to make the Pratt Pouch available in Uganda. The Uganda
model differs from the project in Ecuador in two ways.

First, the target for this project is for 40 percent of HIV-positive mothers
in the country to have access to the pouch, whether they give birth at a
medical facility or at home. “Forty percent may not seem like much,” Malkin
said, “But HIV rates are much higher in Uganda than in Ecuador, so this is a
very ambitious goal.” Globally, Uganda has the fourth highest number of new
HIV infections among children.

Second, the pouches will be manufactured using an automated filling process at
a centralized plant, which will cut the time required to fill, seal and label
one pouch from seventeen seconds to four seconds. Malkin hopes this new
filling process will serve as a pilot to eventually scale up coverage to all
of East Africa.

## STUDENTS HAVE PLAYED A CENTRAL ROLE IN THE PRATT POUCH

Duke engineering students designed and tested the machines that will help
automate the pouch-filling process.

“The evolution of the Pratt Pouch has been driven by Pratt students from the
beginning,” said Malkin, “The idea for the machinery came from two of my
students, Judy Zhu and Katie Gelman, in an independent study.”

Zhu, a recent Pratt graduate, explained that the process was rewarding but
difficult at times. “This was a medical application with direct impact, so the
stakes were high,” she shared. “However, it was also really cool to see the
immediate impact that I was able to have on real people.”

Malkin hopes one or more students will be able to travel to Uganda in the fall
to assist in installing the machines and training workers.

## EGPAF BRINGS STRONG TRACK RECORD TO PROJECT LEADERSHIP IN UGANDA

As the global leader in the fight against pediatric HIV/AIDS, the Elizabeth
Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation (EGPAF) is an ideal partner for this project.

EGPAF—which received the funding for this project through the Saving Lives at
Birth Challenge—is providing technical oversight to the project and will
advise on future scale-up initiatives. They’re helping to integrate Pratt
Pouch technology into the existing supply chain and service delivery platforms
to design a sustainable, evidence-based model for national scale-up in Uganda
and other low-resource countries.

Among EGPAF’s contributions thus far are shepherding the project through
intensive regulatory approval processes and providing technical assistance to
Hospice Africa Uganda, the proposed pouch-filling facility.

## PRATT POUCH CONSULTING ESTABLISHED TO FURTHER MALKIN’S MISSION

Recently, with the help of Duke’s Center for the Advancement of Social
Entrepreneurship, Malkin connected with Joanne Moore, former vice president of
Chemonics. Together, they founded Pratt Pouch Consulting (PPC), an
organization dedicated to spreading the use of the pouch.

PPC partners with community organizations like EGPAF to write grants to fund
expansion projects and help manage the projects.

Learn more about the Pratt Pouch.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

