

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Supercomputer Predicts Optical and Thermal Properties of Complex Hybrid
Materials

October 8, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

Computational models of layered hybrid perovskites open new material design
space for light-based applications such as LEDs and water purification

Materials scientists at Duke University computationally predicted the
electrical and optical properties of semiconductors made from extended organic
molecules sandwiched by inorganic structures.

These types of so-called layered “hybrid organic-inorganic perovskites”—or
HOIPs—are popular targets for light-based devices such as solar cells and
light-emitting diodes (LEDs). The ability to build accurate models of these
materials atom-by-atom will allow researchers to explore new material designs
for next-generation devices.

The results appeared online on October 4 in Physical Review Letters.

“Ideally we would like to be able to manipulate the organic and inorganic
components of these types of materials independently and create semiconductors
with new, predictable properties,” said David Mitzi, the Simon Family
Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science at Duke. “This study
shows that we are able to match and explain the experimental properties of
these materials through complex supercomputer simulations, which is quite
exciting.”

HOIPs are a promising class of materials because of the combined strengths of
their constituent organic and inorganic pieces. Organic materials have more
desirable optical properties and may be bendable, but can be ineffective at
transporting electrical charge. Inorganic structures, on the other hand, are
typically good at conducting electricity and offer more robust mechanical
strength.

Combining the two can affect their individual properties while creating hybrid
materials with the best of both worlds. Understanding the electronic and
atomic-scale consequences of their interaction, however, is challenging at
best, since the resulting crystals or films can be structurally complex. But
because these particular HOIPs have their organic and inorganic components in
well-ordered layers, their structures are somewhat easier to model, and
researchers are now beginning to have success at computationally predicting
their behaviors on an atomic level.

“The computational approach we used has rarely been applied to structures of
this size,” said Volker Blum, associate professor of mechanical engineering
and materials science and of chemistry at Duke. “We couldn’t have done it even
just 10 years ago. Even today, this work would not have been possible without
access to one of the fastest supercomputers in the world.”

That supercomputer—dubbed Theta—is currently the 21st fastest in the world and
resides at Argonne National Laboratory. The group was able to gain time on the
behemoth through Blum securing one of only a dozen Theta Early Science
Projects, aimed at paving the way for other applications to run on the system
first launched in late 2017. They are now co-investigators on one of
Department of Energy's prestigious "Innovative and Novel Computational Impact
on Theory and Experiment" (INCITE) awards, enabling them to continue their
work.

In the new study, Chi Liu, a graduate student in Blum’s laboratory; Yosuke
Kanai, a fellow theorist at the University of North Carolina – Chapel Hill;
and Alvaro Vazquez-Mayagoitia, a scientist at Argonne National Laboratory,
used Theta’s computational power to model the electronic states within a
layered HOIP first synthesized by Mitzi more than a decade ago. While the
electrical and optical properties of the material are well-known, the physics
behind how they emerge have been much debated.

The team has now settled the debate.

> “By using the same type of computation, we can now try to predict the
> properties of similar materials that do not yet exist. We can fill in the
> components and, assuming that the structure doesn’t change radically,
> provide promising targets for materials scientists to pursue." - David Mitzi

In a series of computational models, the team calculates the electronic states
and localizes the valence band and conduction band of the HOIP’s constituent
materials, the organic bis(aminoethyl)-quaterthiophene (AE4T) and the
inorganic lead bromide (PbBr4). These properties dictate how electrons travel
through and between the two materials, which determines the wavelengths and
energies of light it absorbs and emits, among other important properties such
as electrical conduction.

The results showed that the team's computations and experimental observations
match, proving that the computations can accurately model the behaviors of the
material.

Liu then went further by tweaking the materials—varying the length of the
organic molecular chain and substituting chlorine or iodine for the bromine in
the inorganic structure—and running additional computations. On the
experimental side, Mitzi and collaborator Wei You, professor of chemistry and
applied physical sciences at the University of North Carolina – Chapel Hill,
are working on the difficult task of synthesizing these variations to further
verify their colleagues' theoretical models.

The work is part of a larger initiative called the HybriD3 project aimed at
discovering and fine-tuning new functional semiconductor materials. The
collaborative effort features a total of six teams of researchers. Joining
those researchers located at Duke University and the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill, professors Kenan Gundogdu and Franky So at North
Carolina State University are working to further characterize the materials
made in the project, as well as exploring prototype light-emitting devices.

“By using the same type of computation, we can now try to predict the
properties of similar materials that do not yet exist,” said Mitzi. “We can
fill in the components and, assuming that the structure doesn’t change
radically, provide promising targets for materials scientists to pursue.”

This ability will allow scientists to more easily search for better materials
for a wide range of applications. For this particular class of materials, that
includes lighting and water purification.

Inorganic light sources are typically surrounded by diffusers to scatter and
soften their intense, concentrated light, which leads to inefficiencies. This
class of layered HOIPs could make films that achieve this more naturally while
wasting less of the light. For water purification, the material could be
tailored for efficient high-energy emissions in the ultraviolet range, which
can be used to kill bacteria.

“The broader aim of the project is to figure out the material space in this
class of materials in general, well beyond the organic thiophene seen in this
study,” said Blum. “The key point is that we’ve demonstrated we can do these
calculations through this proof of concept. Now we have to work on expanding
it.”

This work was supported by the National Science Foundation (DMR-1729297,
DMR-1728921, DMR-11-21107) and the Department of Energy (DE-AC02-06CH11357).

CITATION: “Tunable Semiconductors: Control Over Carrier States and Excitations
in Layered Hybrid Organic-Inorganic Perovskites.” Chi Liu, William Huhn, Ke-
Zhao Du, Alvaro Vazquez-Mayagoitia, David Dirkes, Wei You, Yosuke Kanai, David
B. Mitzi and Volker Blum. Phys. Rev. Lett., 121, 146401, 2018. DOI:
10.1103/PhysRevLett.121.146401

Link: https://journals.aps.org/prl/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevLett.121.146401

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

