

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Pressure Cooker on Steroids Treats Human Waste

July 9, 2013 | by Richard Merritt

Like alchemists, engineers from Duke University and the University of Missouri
are developing a process to turn sewage into drinkable water, energy and
useful byproducts at a cost of less than a nickel per person per day.

In addition to the technological aspects of the project, the researchers are
investigating plans to make the technology economically self-sustaining in
developing countries, since many areas with the greatest sanitation challenges
are typically urban and low-income. The new approach will operate without
connections to water, sewer or electrical lines.

The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation is supporting the team’s efforts with a
$1.18 million grant as part of the Reinvent the Toilet Challenge. Researchers
expect that a working prototype will have been constructed at Duke in 15
months. It will be tested first in the U.S. and then deployed in South Africa,
India or Ghana, depending on the results of ongoing feasibility studies.

"We not only want to design and build the right piece of equipment to improve
sanitation, but one that is well-integrated into its community, both
economically and socially," said Marc Deshusses, professor of civil and
environmental engineering at Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering and principal
investigator of the project. "We expect the end products of the process will
be used by the communities to build businesses that make it self-sustaining."

The proposal is to produce a self-contained "toilet" unit that can be
transported to locations overseas in a 20-foot container. The prototype will
have the capacity to handle the daily fecal waste of about 1,200 users
collected from community centers or neighborhood latrines directly piped or
transported to the facility for processing.

Deshusses, who received a grant from the Gates Foundation in 2011 to develop a
novel sanitation system for the developing world, describes the technology
that powers the process as a "pressure cooker on steroids." The technology
behind the proposal is known as supercritical water oxidation (SCWO).

"When you heat water above 705 degrees Fahrenheit under pressure, it becomes a
'supercritical fluid,' thicker than steam but less dense than water," said co-
principal investigator William Jacoby, associate professor of biological
engineering at Missouri and director of its Carbon Recycling Center. "When we
add oxygen to the process, it quickly 'burns up' any carbonaceous materials,
including human waste."

Jacoby said that the SCWO process has been used to treat hazardous wastes,
such as polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and chemical weapons.

"In terms of human waste, the process is faster than other treatment methods,
and it produces hot, and potable, water and excess energy in the form of
heat," Jacoby said.

The reaction produces clean water, heat, carbon dioxide, benign salts and
nitrogen, which can be used by the community or turned into business
opportunities to support the system, the researchers said. For example, the
water could be used in community showers or clothes-washing facilities and the
heat could generate electricity.

While one team of engineers works on the technical aspects of the project,
another will work in parallel on developing business plans to make the
endeavor feasible not only economically, but also from a regulatory and
cultural standpoint.

"The technology to treat the waste is not necessarily low-tech, but it is very
sustainable, with no adverse environmental impacts, so our challenge is to
make it cost-effective and self-sustaining," said co-principal investigator
Jay Golden, who directs Duke’s Center for Sustainability & Commerce. He is
also on the faculty of Pratt and Duke's Nicholas School of the Environment.

"By working with people on the ground, we’ll develop a plan for linking the
system and its byproducts to specific community needs," Golden said. "More
broadly, we’ll try to identify other regions where our model can be
effectively duplicated."

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

