

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Bacteria Self-Organize to Build Working Sensors

October 9, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

Bacteria with synthetic gene circuit self-assemble into working device

Researchers at Duke University have turned bacteria into the builders of
useful devices by programming them with a synthetic gene circuit.

As a bacterial colony grows into the shape of a hemisphere, the gene circuit
triggers the production of a type of protein to distribute within the colony
that can recruit inorganic materials. When supplied with gold nanoparticles by
researchers, the system forms a golden shell around the bacterial colony, the
size and shape of which can be controlled by altering the growth environment.

The result is a device that can be used as a pressure sensor, proving that the
process can create working devices.

While other experiments have successfully grown materials using bacterial
processes, they have relied entirely on externally controlling where the
bacteria grow and have been limited to two dimensions. In the new study,
researchers at Duke demonstrate the production of a composite structure by
programming the cells themselves and controlling their access to nutrients,
but still leaving the bacteria free to grow in three dimensions.

The study appears online on October 9 in Nature Biotechnology.

“This technology allows us to grow a functional device from a single cell,”
said Lingchong You, the Paul Ruffin Scarborough Associate Professor of
Engineering at Duke. “Fundamentally, it is no different from programming a
cell to grow an entire tree.”

Nature is full of examples of life combining organic and inorganic compounds
to make better materials. Mollusks grow shells consisting of calcium carbonate
interlaced with a small amount of organic components, resulting in a
microstructure three times tougher than calcium carbonate alone. Our own bones
are a mix of organic collagen and inorganic minerals made up of various salts.

Harnessing such construction abilities in bacteria would have many advantages
over current manufacturing processes. In nature, biological fabrication uses
raw materials and energy very efficiently. In this synthetic system, for
example, tweaking growth instructions to create different shapes and patterns
could theoretically be much cheaper and faster than casting the new dies or
molds needed for traditional manufacturing.

“Nature is a master of fabricating structured materials consisting of living
and non-living components,” said You. “But it is extraordinarily difficult to
program nature to create self-organized patterns. This work, however, is a
proof-of-principle that it is not impossible.”

The genetic circuit is like a biological package of instructions that
researchers embed into a bacterium’s DNA. The directions first tell the
bacteria to produce a protein called T7 RNA polymerase (T7RNAP), which then
activates its own expression in a positive feedback loop. It also produces a
small molecule called AHL that can diffuse into the environment like a
messenger.

As the cells multiply and grow outward, the concentration of the small
messenger molecule hits a critical concentration threshold, triggering the
production of two more proteins called T7 lysozyme and curli. The former
inhibits the production of T7RNAP while the latter acts as sort of biological
Velcro that can latch onto inorganic compounds.

The dynamic interaction of these feedback loops causes the bacterial colony to
grow in a dome-shaped pattern until it runs out of food. It also causes the
bacteria on the outside of the dome to produce the biological Velcro, which
grabs onto gold nanoparticles supplied by the researchers, forming a shell
about the size of your average freckle.

The researchers were able to alter the size and shape of the dome by
controlling the properties of the porous membrane it grows on. For example,
changing the size of the pores or how much the membrane repels water affects
how many nutrients are passed to the cells, altering their growth pattern.

“We’re demonstrating one way of fabricating a 3-D structure based entirely on
the principle of self-organization,” said Stefan Zauscher, the Sternberg
Family Professor of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science at Duke. “That
3-D structure is then used as a scaffold to generate a device with well-
defined physical properties. This approach is inspired by nature, and because
nature doesn’t do this on its own, we’ve manipulated nature to do it for us.”

To show how their system could be used to manufacture working devices, the
researchers used these hybrid organic/inorganic structures as pressure
sensors. Identical arrays of domes were grown on two substrate surfaces. The
two substrates were then sandwiched together so that each dome was positioned
directly across from its counterpart on the other substrate.

Each dome was then connected to an LED light bulb through copper wiring. When
pressure was applied to the sandwich, the domes pressed into one another,
causing a deformation resulting in an increase in its conductivity. This, in
turn, caused the corresponding LED light bulbs to brighten a certain amount
depending on the amount of pressure being applied.

“In this experiment, we’re primarily focused on the pressure sensors, but the
number of directions this could be taken in is vast,” said Will (Yangxiaolu)
Cao, a postdoctoral associate in You’s laboratory and first author of the
paper. “We could use biologically responsive materials to create living
circuits. Or if we could keep the bacteria alive, you could imagine making
materials that could heal themselves and respond to environmental changes.”

“Another aspect we’re interested in pursuing is how to generate much more
complex patterns,” said You. “Bacteria can create complex branching patterns,
we just don’t know how to make them do that ourselves -- yet.”

This study was supported by the Office of Naval Research (N00014-12-1-0631),
the National Science Foundation, the Army Research Office (W911NF-14-1-0490),
the National Institutes of Health (1R01-GM098642, R01-GM096190,
K99CA207872-01), the Swiss National Science Foundation (P300P2_154583), and a
David and Lucile Packard Fellowship.

“Programmed Assembly of Pressure Sensors Using Pattern-Forming Bacteria.”
Yangxiaolu Cao, Yaying Feng, Marc D. Ryser, Kui Zhu, Gregory Herschlag,
Changyong Cao, Katherine Marusak, Stefan Zauscher, Lingchong You. Nature
Biotechnology, 2017. DOI: 10.1038/nbt.3978

# # #

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

