

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# An App for Stopping Drone Deliveries over Prison Walls

June 19, 2019 | By Ken Kingery

Duke engineers are developing an app for the North Carolina Department of
Public Safety to detect and thwart drones attempting to deliver contraband at
state prisons

Engineers at Duke University are teaming up with the North Carolina Department
of Public Safety to address a growing concern for correctional facilities
worldwide—drones delivering contraband over prison walls.

While companies like Amazon and Google are just beginning to test drone
delivery services worldwide, criminals have already been receiving packages
through the air for years. Seven members of a gang were convicted in 2018 of
airlifting £500,000 worth of drugs into UK prisons. In 2017, a prisoner in
South Carolina broke out of a maximum-security prison using wire cutters
delivered through the use of a drone.

Many of the larger prison facilities in North Carolina have found themselves
caught up in the trend. Scotland Correctional Institution near Laurinburg, for
example, has experienced several attempts to smuggle in contraband such as
cell phones and tobacco through the use of drones. While commercial anti-drone
systems do exist, they are too expensive to roll out on a state-wide basis or
a state-level budget.

“It’s been sporadic for our facilities, but obviously even a single incident
is too many for us,” said Loris Sutton, chief of security for the North
Carolina state prison system. “I heard that Professor Cummings would be a
great resource to try to combat this problem, so I reached out to her to see
if she’d be willing to work with us. And of course she was more than willing.”

Mary “Missy” Cummings, professor of electrical and computer engineering at
Duke, is one of the nation’s leading experts in autonomous vehicles. As one of
the Navy’s first female fighter pilots and a doctorate in human-computer
system interaction, flying drones are her specialty.

But it was Cummings’s work with the Town of Cary and Sarah P. Duke Gardens
that really caught Sutton’s attention. In 2017, Cummings received a National
Science Foundation grant in partnership with landscape architects at Clemson
University to develop an affordable and aesthetic system for deterring
unwanted drones.

Working together with her team of students, Cummings has been developing an
alerting system that uses microphones and thermal cameras to detect unwanted
drones and the people flying them. Their colleagues at Clemson, meanwhile,
built a synthetic “bird’s nest” the size of a hawk’s nest to camouflage the
associated equipment.

The team will be beta testing the system with the Town of Cary later this
summer, and eventually with Duke Gardens. If the initial results are
promising, Sutton hopes the emerging system might be able to extend to
monitoring the walls of North Carolina’s prisons.

It likely could.

Chunge Wang, a Duke undergraduate student majoring in computer science,
created a new app interface for the equipment that is tailored to the needs of
prisons, dubbed Prison Reconnaissance Information System (PRIS). In its
current form, the hardware consists of a microphone connected to a Raspberry
Pi—a simple, inexpensive computer board originally developed to teach basic
programming—a data server and a smart phone, costing less than $1,000 total.

The Raspberry Pi is loaded with a machine learning algorithm that constantly
processes the data collected from the microphone to isolate the sounds a drone
makes from background noise. When it detects the buzzing whir of a drone’s
propellers, it sends a notification to an app loaded on smart phones carried
by the prison’s security personnel.

“The app displays the information in a visually dynamic way in real-time,
using different symbols overlaid on a map view of the prison,” explained Wang.
“The goal is for the users to be able to quickly understand where and how far
away the potential threat is, how confident the system is that it’s actually a
drone, and what’s most likely to happen next.”

Eager to test PRIS out in a real-world environment, Cummings, Wang and their
team recently visited one of North Carolina’s more remote prison facilities,
Dan River Prison Work Farm in Caswell County. The group spent several hours
collecting data and actually seeing how well the system was able to collect
data and display it through the app.

“We’re still trying to figure out some problems with false alarms caused by
helicopters and weed eaters, both of which show up at prisons from time to
time,” said Cummings. “But when we tested at a local airport, we were excited
to see that we could filter out flying airplanes. We did have some trouble
with airplanes that were taxiing, but you’re not very likely to run into those
at a prison.”

The researchers were also able to get the app in the hands of security
personnel to get their feedback on the user interface. Other than a few
suggestions about additional features, the reviews have been universally
positive.

“I think the work the team has done so far has been terrific,” said Sutton.
“I’m excited about the possible outcomes of the project and look forward to
the day that they can produce a finished product for us.”

The Duke researchers are excited too. Wang is presenting his research this
month at the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA)
AVIATION Forum, the premier aviation conference in the nation. After a summer
of testing, if the technology performs well, the team will look into
commercializing it.

“This low-cost, easy-to-use technology has the potential to put early warning
drone detection capability into the hands of managers of small public venues
and prison wardens, which substantially benefits public safety,” said
Cummings. “This project demonstrates what can be achieved through excellence
in research and engineering, as well as strong partnerships with a local
community that has pressing needs.”

This work is supported by the National Science Foundation and the North
Carolina Department of Public Safety.

CITATION: “A Mobile Alerting Interface for Drone and Human Contraband Drops.”
Chunge Wang and Mary L. Cummings. AIAA AVIATION, 2019.

# # #

## Related News

October 13, 2017

### Deterring Drones from Ballparks and Botanical Gardens

January 19, 2017

### Cummings Named to New Federal Committee on Automation

April 27, 2016

### Piloting Drones into the Future

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

