

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Programming from the Deep End

June 1, 2018

There’s nothing like a little “sink or swim” to get the code flowing

Though he’s now on the faculty of Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering, Ric
Telford spent most of his career working his way up the chain of command at
IBM. He started as a software developer and retired in 2015 as Vice President
of Cloud Strategy, where he prototyped and piloted new technologies and
business models for the software giant.

Telford never wanted to spend his retirement playing golf. Instead, he joined
Duke’s Engineering Masters program as an Executive-in-Residence to mentor and
instruct engineering students who are just starting to build their own
careers. He accomplishes this, in part, by structuring his Software
Engineering class in the same way that software companies are structured—teams
of students work to produce a set of deliverables for a real client, in blocks
of work called sprints. There are sharp learning curves, and not a lot of
hand-holding.

This spring, for example, students in Telford’s graduate-level software
engineering course designed a soup-to-nuts software system for Tyrata, a
company whose sensor technology allows monitoring and reporting on tire tread
wear in real time. (The company’s co-founder and Chief Technology Officer is
Electrical and Computer Engineering Associate Professor Aaron Franklin.)
Tyrata was moving steadily toward market release, and as such had some needs
that Telford felt his programming students could assist with—like an app that
Tyrata could show to potential customers, to demonstrate the applicability of
its tech.

Tyrata put together a set of ideas and concepts that needed to be illustrated;
at the close of the course, the students would have a better understanding of
the business of programming, and Tyrata would own the code the students
developed.

> There’s great interaction between research, education, and industry and
> commercialization. That ecosystem is strong at Duke and this project gave us
> an opportunity to really dig in and leverage that.
>
> DAve Koester, Vice President of Engineering, Tyrata

“One of the things we talk about is ‘integrated entrepreneurship,’ ” said
David Koester, Tyrata’s vice president of engineering. “There’s great
interaction between research, education, and industry and commercialization.
That ecosystem is strong at Duke and this project gave us an opportunity to
really dig in and leverage that.”

The software system that Telford’s class developed had three components: a
simulator that played the role of the sensor in creating and sending periodic
data, a mobile interface that illustrated the data to the user (alerting the
driver that the left rear tire should be changed, for instance); and a server
database that synthesized and extracted insights from the simulated data
(showing, for example, that a particular brand of tire might be wearing out
more quickly than projected).

In the beginning, the going was tough.

“They were starting from scratch, with no guidelines, no examples, and no
experience,” said Telford. “The trajectory of improvement is very steep. In
Sprint 1, there’s not a lot of function. In Sprint 2, they’re getting their
feet under them and delivering code. But by Sprint 3, they’re innovating and
creating things the client hasn’t even asked for.”

“I was very pleased with the work they got done,” said Koester. “We expected
results. We expected them to get the code to work, and they did.”

Are Telford’s classes easy? According to his students, no. But do they learn
skills that they wouldn’t ordinarily acquire in a classroom? Master’s
candidate Naixin Yu says, emphatically, yes. She had no experience programming
for Android when she enrolled in the course and had never worked on a large
project as part of a team.

Now that the course is complete, Yu’s resume has evolved; she’s worked with a
team to write an app, even acting as project leader for the third sprint, and
says she feels comfortable doing the work. She says that more importantly,
she’s learned how crucial and often difficult it can be to communicate
effectively across groups, aligning everyone’s work toward the end goal.

“I got to know who liked to work in the morning, and who worked in the
evening; who would respond quickly to your message, and who wouldn’t. I
learned to assign jobs based on work styles,” said Yu.

She also paid close attention to the leadership styles of her more
professionally experienced peers, and learned how to manage meetings, schedule
workflow and build a structure for projects to hang on.

In talking with second-year master’s students about Telford’s class before she
enrolled, Yu says she was warned that the class was intense. Weekend meetings
were common, and group dynamics could be fractious and stressful.

But now that she has taken the class, Yu said that her own advice would be
different. “Think about what you want out of the course,” she said. “If you
want to learn about communication in business, take the course. And you should
definitely put a lot of time in, because that’s how you’ll learn.”

Earn your Master's at Duke ECE

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

