

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Protecting Thin, Flexible Brain Interfaces from the Human Body

April 8, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

Next-generation brain implants with more than a thousand electrodes can
survive for more than six years

Researchers have demonstrated the ability to implant an ultrathin, flexible
neural interface with thousands of electrodes into the brain with a projected
lifetime of more than six years. Protected from the ravaging environment of
internal biological processes by less than a micrometer of material, the
achievement is an important step toward creating high-resolution neural
interfaces that can persist within a human body for an entire lifetime.

The results, appearing online April 8 in the journal Science Translational
Medicine, were published by a team of researchers led by Jonathan Viventi,
assistant professor of biomedical engineering at Duke University; John Rogers,
the Louis Simpson and Kimberly Querrey Professor of Materials Science and
Engineering, Biomedical Engineering and Neurological Surgery at Northwestern
University; and Bijan Pesaran, professor of neural science at New York
University.

“Trying to get these sensors to work in the brain is like tossing your
foldable, flexible smartphone in the ocean and expecting it to work for 70
years,” said Viventi. “Except we’re making devices that are much thinner and
much more flexible than the phones currently on the market. That’s the
challenge.”

The human body is an unforgiving place to live if you’re an uninvited guest —
especially if you’re made of polymers or metal. Besides attacks from the
surrounding tissues and immune system, foreign objects must be able to stand
up to a corrosive, salty environment.

Engineering electrical devices that can withstand this assault is an even more
daunting prospect. Current long-term implantable devices are almost
universally hermetically sealed within a laser-welded titanium casing. Think
of a pacemaker, for example.

“Building water-tight, bulk enclosures for such types of implants represents
one level of engineering challenge,” Rogers said. “We’re reporting here the
successful development of materials that provide similar levels of isolation,
but with thin, flexible membranes that are one hundred times thinner than a
sheet of paper.”

But when it comes to the human brain, space and flexibility is of the essence.
There is no room for rigid devices with millimeter-thick walls. These
challenges mean that existing neural interfaces can sample only about a
hundred sites, which pales in comparison to the tens of billions of neurons
that make up the human brain. Any attempt to make these devices larger
invariably runs into the hurdle of wiring logistics—because each sensor
requires its own wire, size constraints quickly become an issue.

Viventi and his colleagues have been working on a different approach.

“You need to move the electronics to the sensors themselves and develop local
intelligence that can handle multiple incoming signals,” said Viventi. “This
is how digital cameras work. You can have tens of millions of pixels without
tens of millions of wires because many pixels share the same data channels.”

Through their work, the researchers have already demonstrated flexible neural
devices just 25 micrometers thick with 360 electrodes. But previous attempts
to keep them safe from harm inside the body have failed, as even the tiniest
defect can thwart the entire effort.

“We tried a bunch of strategies before. Depositing polymers as thin as is
required resulted in defects that caused them to fail, and thicker polymers
didn’t have the flexibility that was required,” said Viventi. “But we finally
found a strategy that outlasts them all and have now made it work in the
brain.”

All it took was perfection.

In the new paper, Viventi, Rogers, Pesaran and their colleagues demonstrate
that a thermally grown layer of silicon dioxide less than a micrometer thick
can ward off the hostile environment within the brain, degrading at a rate of
only 0.46 nanometers per day. And because this form of glass is biocompatible,
any trace amount that dissolves into the body should not create any problems
of its own.

They also show that, even though the glass encapsulation is not conductive,
the device’s electrodes can detect neural activity through capacitive sensing.
This is the same sort of technology that can detect the movements of a finger
on a smartphone’s touchscreen. They implanted a 64-electrode neural interface
into a rat for over a year and a 1,008-electrode neural interface into the
motor cortex of a monkey reaching to a touchscreen.

“Successfully deploying the device in monkeys doing human-like tasks is a huge
leap forward,” said Perasan. “Now we can refine our technology to help people
suffering brain disorders.”

Based on these results and experiments to heat the devices to simulate longer
periods of time, the researchers believe their devices could withstand
implantation for more than six years.

While these results are enormous steps forward in comparison to current state-
of-the-art devices, they’re not anywhere near the level of the researchers’
aspirations. Viventi’s student is currently working to scale the prototype up
from 1,000 electrodes to more than 65,000. And they expect that by using
commercial foundries to make the electrodes, which are far superior to their
own capabilities, that the performance of their neural interface will increase
greatly both in terms of signal quality and surviving within the human body.

“One of our goals is to create a new type of visual prosthetic that interacts
directly with the brain that can restore at least some sight capacity for
people with damaged optic nerves,” said Viventi. “But we can also use these
types of devices to control other types of prosthetics or in a wide range of
neuroscience research projects.”

This research is supported by the National Institute of Neurological Disorders
and Stroke (U01 NS099697), the National Science Foundation (CCF1422914,
CCF-1564051), a Steven W Smith Fellowship, a L’Oreal USA for Women in Science
Fellowship, and the Defense Advanced Research Programs Agency (DARPA-
BAA-16-09, DARPA-BAA-13-20).

CITATION: “Development of a Neural Interface for High Definition, Long-term
Recording in Rodents and Non-Human Primates,” Chia-Han Chiang, Sang Min Won,
Amy L. Orsborn, Ki Jun Yu, Michael Trumpis, Brinnae Bent, Charles Wang,
Yeguang Xue, Seunghwan Min, Virginia Woods, Chunxiu Yu, Bong Hoon Kim, Sung
Bong Kim, Rizwan Huq, Jinghua Li, Kyung Jin Seo, Flavia Vitale, Andrew
Richardson, Hui Fang, Yonggang Huang, Kenneth Shepard, Bijan Pesaran, John A.
Rogers, & Jonathan Viventi. Science Translational Medicine, April 9, 2020.
DOI: 10.1126/scitranslmed.aay4682

# # #

## Related News

April 09, 2018

### Viventi Receives NSF CAREER Award to Optimize Neural Interfaces

September 26, 2014

### Jonathan Viventi: Engineering HD Brain Interfaces

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

