

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Pulling the Strings of Our Genomic Puppetmasters

April 6, 2015 | By Ken Kingery

Engineers gain control of gene activity; new therapies may be ahead.

Duke researchers have developed a new method to precisely control when genes
are turned on and active.

The new technology allows researchers to turn on specific gene promoters and
enhancers—pieces of the genome that control gene activity—by chemically
manipulating proteins that package DNA. This web of biomolecules that supports
and controls gene activity is known as the epigenome.

The researchers say having the ability to steer the epigenome will help them
explore the roles that particular promoters and enhancers play in cell fate or
the risk for genetic disease and it could provide a new avenue for gene
therapies and guiding stem cell differentiation.

The study appears online April 6 in Nature Biotechnology.

“The epigenome is everything associated with the genome other than the actual
genetic sequence, and is just as important as our DNA in determining cell
function in healthy and diseased conditions,” said Charles Gersbach, assistant
professor of biomedical engineering at Duke. “That becomes immediately obvious
when you consider that we have over 200 cell types, and yet the DNA in each is
virtually the same. The epigenome determines which genes each cell activates
and to what degree.”

This genetic puppetmaster consists of DNA packaging proteins called histones
and a host of chemical modifications—either to these histones or the DNA
itself—that help determine whether a gene is on or off.

But Gersbach's team didn't have to modify the genes themselves to gain some
control.

“Next to every gene is a DNA sequence called a promoter that controls its
activity,” explained Gersbach. “But there’s also many other pieces of the
genome called enhancers that aren’t next to any genes at all, and yet they
play a critical role in influencing gene activity too.”

Timothy Reddy, assistant professor of biostatistics and bioinformatics at
Duke, has spent the better part of a decade mapping millions of these
enhancers across the human genome. There has not, however, been a good way to
find out exactly what each one does. An enhancer might affect a gene next door
or several genes across the genome—or maybe none at all.

To activate these enhancers and see what they do, Reddy thought perhaps he
could chemically alter the histones at the enhancers to turn them on.

“There are already drugs that will affect enhancers across the whole genome,
but that’s like scorching the earth,” said Reddy. “I wanted to develop tools
to go in and modify very specific epigenetic marks in very specific places to
find out what individual enhancers are doing.”

Reddy found that specificity by teaming up with Gersbach, his neighbor within
Duke’s Center for Genomic and Computational Biology, who specializes in a
gene-targeting system called CRISPR. Originally discovered as a natural
antiviral system in bacteria, researchers have hijacked the system over the
past few years and are now using it to cut and paste DNA sequences in the
human genome.

For this epigenome editing application, Gersbach silenced the DNA-cutting
mechanism of CRISPR and used it solely as a targeting system to deliver an
enzyme (acetyltransferase) to specific promoters and enhancers.

“It’s like we use CRISPR to find a genetic address so that we can alter the
DNA’s packaging at that specific site,” said Reddy.

Gersbach and Reddy put their artificial epigenetic agent to the test by
targeting a few well-studied gene promoters and enhancers. While these histone
modifications have long been associated with gene activity, it wasn’t clear if
they were enough to turn genes on. And though Gersbach and Reddy had
previously used other technologies to activate gene promoters, they had not
successfully activated enhancers.

To the duo’s great surprise, not only did the agent activate the gene
promoters, it turned on the adjacent genes better than their previous methods.
Equally surprising was that it worked on enhancers as well: they could turn on
a gene—or even families of genes—by targeting enhancers at distant locations
in the genome—something that their previous gene activators could not do.

But the real excitement from their results is an emerging ability to probe
millions of potential enhancers in a way never before possible.

“Some genetic diseases are straightforward—if you have a mutation within a
particular gene, then you have the disease,” said Isaac Hilton, postdoctoral
fellow in the Gersbach Lab and first author of the study. “But many diseases,
like cancer, cardiovascular disease or neurodegenerative conditions, have a
much more complex genetic component. Many different variations in the genome
sequence can affect your risk of disease, and this genetic variation can occur
in these enhancers that Tim has identified, where they can change the levels
of gene expression. With this technology, we can explore what exactly it is
that they’re doing and how it relates to disease or response to drug
therapies.”

Gersbach added, “Not only can you start to answer those questions, but you
might be able to use this technique for gene therapy to activate genes that
have been abnormally silenced or to control the paths that stem cells take
toward becoming different types of cells. These are all directions we will be
pursuing in the future.”

This work was supported by the National Institutes of Health (R01DA036865,
U01HG007900, DP2OD008586, P30AR066527) and the National Science Foundation
(CBET-1151035).

###

"Epigenome editing by a CRISPR-Cas9-based acetyltransferase activates genes
from promoters and enhancers," Isaac B Hilton, Anthony M D’Ippolito,
Christopher M Vockley, Pratiksha I. Thakore, Gregory E Crawford, Timothy E
Reddy, Charles A Gersbach. Nature Biotechnology, April 6, 2015. DOI:
10.1038/nbt.3199

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

