

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Pursuing Research: 2021 Pratt Fellows

April 21, 2021

A glimpse into the projects pursued by three Pratt Undergraduate Research
Fellows and the lessons provided by their experience

Using AI to model clinical neural stimulation. Creating new materials for
flexible, thin-film solar cells. Understanding how protein mutations affect
the structural properties of biological tissues. While the research topics
pursued by Pratt Undergraduate Research Fellows are as diverse as Duke
Engineering, the experiences gained are the same.

Pratt Fellows pursue intensive research projects for three semesters while
receiving course credit as well as an opportunity for summer research. The
experiences gained allow students to better understand what a career in
research might be like, gain deep exposure to a specific field and develop a
wide array of skills useful to whatever careers they may pursue after Duke.

“The Pratt Research Fellows program provides students with the opportunity to
contribute to cutting-edge research topics, while gaining a deep understanding
of advanced concepts within their fields,” said Carmen Rawls, assistant dean
for advising and outreach for Duke Engineering. “These students grow as
engineers and as researchers, prepared to tackle any challenges they will face
in the future.”

Learn about the experiences of a few fellows below, and be sure to check out
the full class of 2021 Pratt Fellows.

## Adrian Lopez

**_Major:_** Electrical and Computer Engineering, Mathematics  
**_Advisor:_** Angel Peterchev, associate professor of psychiatry and
behavioral sciences, electrical and computer engineering, biomedical
engineering, and neurosurgery  
**_Project Title:_** Estimating Effects of tES on Neuron Models Using Deep
Learning

### What’s your project all about?

Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) is a promising new therapy for brain
disorders and is FDA-cleared for the treatment of depression, obsessive-
compulsive disorder, smoking addiction and migraine. TMS works by allowing
psychiatrists to modulate brain activity in a specific region in the brain,
for example the prefrontal cortex. However, the placement of the TMS coil on
the patient's head and the intensity of stimulation must be accounted for.
There is no known “rational design” for these parameters, meaning that in
order for parameters to be approved for clinical use, a clinical trial must be
done.

Our goal is to be able to estimate the effects of TMS on brain cells (neurons)
in the cortex through computational methods with the help of deep learning. By
using realistic neuron models created by Aman Aberra, a PhD candidate in BME,
we can run simulations where the neurons are exposed to different TMS
parameters. Then, we use the data from those simulations to train deep neural
networks—3D convolutional neural networks, specifically—to rapidly predict the
effects. This cuts simulation time from around a week to about four minutes,
with a very small amount of error.

There is another emergent therapy, called transcranial direct current
stimulation (tDCS), that is approved for use in Europe. We are using deep
neural networks to estimate this therapy’s effects on neurons as well. We plan
to package this product into software that will allow neuroscientists and
other specialists to design better therapies and learn more about the brain.

### What’s your biggest takeaway from the Pratt Research Fellows program?

The biggest thing I’ll take away from this experience is how to do meaningful
research as a member of a lab. The Peterchev Lab, specifically Dr. Angel
Peterchev and Aman Aberra, have been very helpful in my development these past
two years, and I’ve learned a lot from them. It taught me firsthand that a
career in medical research is something that I want to pursue in the future.

## Eric Chang

**_Majors:_** Mechanical Engineering, Computer Science  
**_Advisor:_** David Mitzi, Simon Family Distinguished Professor of Mechanical
Engineering and Materials Science  
**_Project Title:_** Synthesis and Characterization of Selenium-Alloyed
Bournonite CuPbSb(S1-xSex)3: A Prospective Semiconductor for Optoelectronic
Applications

### What’s your project all about?

I've been studying a material called bournonite (CuPbSbS3) and its potential
for thin-film solar cells and other energy applications. Thin-film solar cells
are a newer version of solar cells that are lighter weight and more flexible
than the first-generation version.

More specifically, I've synthesized a novel alloy (CuPbSb(S1-xSex)3),
characterized its properties in powder form, and am working on synthesizing
films and solar devices (i.e. solar cells) to analyze the efficiency of this
new material.

### What’s your biggest takeaway from the Pratt Research Fellows program?

The Pratt Research Fellowship has given me the opportunity to lead my own
research project, use state-of-the-art equipment and processes, and
collaborate with and learn from leaders in the field. By providing a thorough
exposure to academic research, the experience has helped me develop a passion
for research, and I'll be continuing on to graduate school next year. Although
I'll be moving to a different research area, the program has equipped me with
a set of research skills and experience that can be generally applied to any
topic, allowing me to feel that I am well-prepared for graduate school and on
a solid path toward a research career.

## Taylor Huie

**_Major:_** Biomedical Engineering  
_**Advisor:**_ Brenton Hoffman, James L. and Elizabeth M. Vincent Associate
Professor of Biomedical Engineering  
_**Project Title:**_ Examining N-cadherin’s Force Sensitive Interfaces

### What’s your project all about?

Within tissues, cell-cell adhesions enable structure formation, maintain
mechanical integrity and facilitate signal transmission by resisting
mechanical loads. These adhesions contain a protein called N-cadherin, which
we genetically-encode with a FRET-based tension sensor for imaging. I worked
to understand how mutations of this protein would affect the cell-cell
adhesions and resulting physiological responses.

### What’s your biggest takeaway from the Pratt Research Fellows program?

I am so incredibly thankful for the mentorship and acquired skills from my
last three years of working in the Hoffman lab. I have learned a great deal
about the science of cellular and molecular mechanobiology, but am most
thankful for my training in efficient scientific problem solving—something I
know I will apply in my future career.

LEARN MORE ABOUT PRATT RESEARCH FELLOWS

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

