

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Q&A: Aniket Dalvi, Quantum Computing Master's Student

January 2, 2020

What is it like to study quantum computing at Duke?

## **Q &A: Aniket Dalvi, Master's Student  
** **Advisor: Kenneth Brown**

### Undergraduate degree: University of Wisconsin-Madison  
Major: Physics and Computer Science

#### **What sparked your interest in quantum computing?**

In high school, I belonged to a research center in Bangalore. It was run by
professors, and the premise was that you explored whatever interested you and
they would provide guidance when you got stuck. For me, this was a better
route to prepare for college than the prep courses that all of my peers were
taking--the self-guided nature of the research center was a much better fit
for me.

There, I learned calculus and linear algebra and moved toward problems in
quantum mechanics, then statistical mechanics. At the same time, I was also
quite interested in computer science and enjoyed working on programming side
projects. It was around this time, I was trying to decide whether I wanted to
stay in India for my undergraduate studies, or come to the US. If I had
decided on computer engineering, I might have made the decision to stay in
India. But I also really love studying physics and the “pure science” side of
things, also. So I was asking myself, how might I satisfy both?

Then in the summer between my junior and senior years, my mentor told me about
a new field—new to me, anyway—that was up-and-coming: quantum computing. He
sent me some articles and papers _._ I read them and said, “Wait, this sounds
great!” It’s based on quantum mechanics, but being applied in computer
science, so it synthesized my interests.

So, when I applied to universities, I applied only to places that had quantum
computing programs.

#### **What kind of experience did you get as an undergraduate?**

I worked with Robert McDermott at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, who
does research in superconducting qubits, for a couple of years. Working in his
lab, I learnt a lot about the experimental and physics side of quantum
computing. I was also selected to be a part of research workshop at the
Institute for Quantum Computing called USEQIP (Undergraduate School on
Experimental Quantum Information Processing), which gave me a good foundation
on quantum computing through lectures and labs on various topics in the field.
During that time, I interned at Microsoft in the capacity of a software
engineer over multiple summers, but got to interact at length with their
quantum computing group.

Through these experiences, I realized that I was more interested in the
computer science aspect of quantum computing. That side focuses on the layers
above the hardware– control, compilers, programming languages and
applications.

#### **Why Duke?**

> The general feeling was that there was a good group forming around quantum
> information.

As an undergraduate, I already knew I wanted to continue my studies in
graduate school. I spoke about my interests to my colleagues at Microsoft and
to the professors I met at USEQIP and during my undergraduate studies, and
learned which university had faculty in the computer science realm of quantum
computing. A lot of these people pointed to Duke. Jungsang Kim was here, and
Kenneth Brown had just moved here. The general feeling was that there was a
good group forming around quantum information. And, Ken and Jungsang work
across the stacks, at both the experimental level and the programming level,
so I knew I would find projects of interest to me.

> I was looking for that strong university-industry connection. That, along
> with the flexibility of the coursework, which gave me a lot more bandwidth
> for research, made Duke the best fit for me, in the end.

Finally, Duke was well-connected to other universities leading quantum
computing efforts, specifically the University of Chicago and University of
Maryland, which are both part of STAQ (the Software- Tailored Architectures
for Quantum Codesign, directed by Ken Brown). I want to work in industry
later, so the recommendations from my industry colleagues were quite helpful—I
was looking for that strong university-industry connection. That, along with
the flexibility of the coursework, which gave me a lot more bandwidth for
research, made Duke the best fit for me, in the end.

#### **What’s the Brown lab like?**

It’s great. Ken is hands-on when you need his advice and direction, and hands-
off when needful. And he’s very supportive. When I spoke to him before joining
the lab, I asked what I needed as far as prerequisites or extra classes. He
said, “That’s not the way I work. Tell me about the skills you have, and we’ll
work out a project that suits you.” I really liked that. I think it’s a
fantastic way to approach research—working with the strengths that each
student brings to the table.

It’s a very collaborative lab. You often work with people with various areas
of expertise and experience which leads to an enriching learning experience
about various aspects of the field. When you have questions, everyone is
accessible.

#### **What are you researching here at Duke?**

I’m working on automating experimental controls for ion-trap systems. Right
now, we are running ion trap experiments that requires manual calibration,
meaning that there’s an experimentalist who calibrates the signals, the
frequency of the laser beams—all of that—with software each time we run the
experiment. It’s very time-intensive, and Ken has a vision of automating it.
There is a framework called artiq, a control system for quantum information
experiments, and I am working with a couple of PhD students to develop a
program using artiq to automate and abstract our calibration and experiments.

#### **What’s the most useful thing you’ve learned?**

I feel that these programming skills are transferrable—the challenge of making
experiments more efficient is being tackled in industry as well. We’re heading
toward better physical systems, and we’re coming close to being able to run
operations on them, and the stacks need to be able to keep up. And because the
work exists between two layers—the high-level language of the compiler and the
hardware—I’ve gotten a better understanding of those aspects of quantum
computing, too.

#### **The field is pretty small, compared to other disciplines, and there are
a small number of affluent companies working to establish quantum dominance.
What’s your outlook on employment, for when you finish your degree?** ****

It’s hard to predict, but right now things seem to be going well. There’s a
wave building and the field seems to be riding high. There have been huge
breakthroughs over the past couple years, like the recent Google paper on
quantum supremacy. These are a few reasons why, right now, companies seem to
be willing to hire people in the field.

Although the field has a long way to go, the future seems bright.

#### **What do you like about living in Durham?**

The food is really good. The weather, compared to Wisconsin, is a huge relief.
It’s December and I’m wearing a short-sleeved shirt!

#### **Any advice for students considering a master’s degree at Duke?**

My biggest piece of advice would be to find an area that really interests you
and reach out to faculty at Duke who are working in that area. Their advice
and insights will definitely be helpful in making an informed decision.
Secondly—keeping an open mind and your appetite for learning will go a long
way while pursuing graduate studies.

Study Quantum Computing at Duke

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

