

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Q&A: Duke's Heileen Hsu-Kim

April 6, 2014 | By Judy Zhu

Hsu-Kim is a professor leading a phenomenal early career in geochemistry

_Originally published in DukEngineer_

Professor Heileen Hsu-Kim’s cutting-edge research at Duke's Pratt School of
Engineering has earned her the 2012 Presidential Early Career Award for
Scientists and Engineers (PECASE).

**How long have you been at Duke and what brought you here?**

I’ve been at Duke for eight years, since 2005. I was drawn the opportunity to
be an assistant professor at Duke because this university has a great
environment to start research and to teach. There aren’t many universities
that allow this kind of opportunity.

**What kind of research are you doing right now?**

My research area is environmental chemistry and I am an aquatic geochemist.
The research I do is mostly related to contaminate metals in the environment.
We look at the toxicity of metals, study the amount of metal contaminants in
water, soil and sediments, and try to discover ways to mitigate the effects of
these contaminants.

Specifically, my research team is split into two projects. Half of my group
works on questions related to mercury, which is an environmental neurotoxin.
We are trying to answer many questions. For example, what chemical forms of
mercury exist in sediments, soil and water? How can we predict its
bioavailability to microorganisms? How can we predict its risks to human
health? We also have research activities related to the products that come
from burning coal for energy. We are interested in the risks of disposing of
these products and the hazards related to the trace element toxins in these
materials. We’re also looking at how different types of coal and coal-burning
processes can affect the chemistry of these products.

Additionally, we are looking at the environmental implications of
nanotechnology. Nanotechnology is the manipulation of materials at a very
small scale—a scale only slightly bigger than individual molecules. This tiny
scale results in a set of reactivities and properties that follows its own
rules, which speaks to the uniqueness of nanotechnology and the ways we can
take advantage of that uniqueness. Despite the small scales, engineers and
scientists have made strides in manipulating materials at this level during
the past 20 years. As a geochemist, my perspective is that materials at this
scale persist everywhere in nature—they’re ubiquitous. For example, if you
take a handful of soil it will be filled with nanoparticles because clays are
made of them.

We are interested in studying engineered nanomaterials and their environmental
implications. There are many similarities between engineered and natural
nanomaterials in terms of their fundamental chemistry. A lot of nanotechnology
is not new—many materials we make have natural analogues in the environment.
So perhaps we can use this environmental perspective to help us understand
some of the risks of this type of engineering.

We do things with nanotechnology for environmental applications, mostly metal-
based nanomaterials like zinc oxide and silver, which are used in consumer
products. We’re researching methods to use nanomaterials to remediate
contaminated sediments, for example. We also have a Superfund project using
zero-valance iron (similar to cast iron but nanoscale) as a way to degrade
sediment contaminants such as flame retardants.

It’s been cool to see the direction that my research has taken me over the
years. I’ve always studied pollutants like mercury that occur naturally, but
now I realize there’s a nanoscale reactivity and geochemistry that allows us
to answer questions we weren’t able to answer before. This insight has helped
me make many connections, and looking back at my eight years here, I would say
that my research’s progression has been exciting.

**How did your PECASE award from the Department of Energy come about?**

The award is run by the Office of Science and Technology Policy in the White
House, which asks various federal agencies for nominees. I was nominated
through my early career award from the Department of Energy, and they selected
the winners from that group.

**The PECASE is the highest honor bestowed by the U.S. government on
scientists early in their career. How did you feel when you received it?**

I was ecstatic! They don’t tell you officially right away, but you kind of
figure out what’s going on during the vetting process. I didn’t know that I
was nominated, but I got these e-mails from the White House telling me they’re
doing a background check on me, and I thought, “Wait a minute.” That’s how I
found out, but I didn’t know for sure for two months. When they formally made
the decision, they sent us an e-mail saying congratulations and invited us to
the White House for the ceremony. There were about 100 PECASE winners there,
representing scientists and engineers from universities and federal labs.

**What does being the recipient of the award entail?**

We each get a research grant for five years, but because I was nominated
through the Department of Energy Early Scientist Award, I already had my grant
when I was awarded the PECASE. Winning PECASE for me meant a great trip to
Washington, DC, getting to meet President Obama, and receiving an incredible
honor. The grant has been really important to help get my research off the
ground.

**What do you see for your career in the next ten years?**

I was recently awarded tenure, so now I’m free to pursue research with a long-
term perspective. I would like to take what we’re working on and make it
influential by focusing on the way that practicing engineers deal with
contaminated sediments and water. A lot of the work we’ve been doing is
fundamental, but now I would like to make it more practical; practicing
engineers can use this information to make better decisions about remediation.
Also, I would like to be more involved in the running of the university, like
how Pratt is organized and how the administration makes decisions on
educational initiatives, for example. I’m interested in making Pratt better.

**Do you have any advice for young researchers who would like to be in your
shoes one day?**

I really encourage students to do research because I have done research since
I was a freshman in college in areas that are very different from what I am
doing now. The early research experience helped me figure out general fields I
was interested in and what I wanted to do. If you might be interested, I
suggest reaching out to professors that you find encouraging. It doesn’t hurt
to ask. Even though it can be hard to figure out what you’re really interested
in, there are ways to be proactive. Sometimes you can read the websites of
professors who write about their projects. And sometimes you meet professors
who taught a class you found engaging, in which case you should send an e-mail
or catch them during office hours! Set an appointment, talk about the research
and send them your résumé. For me, I like being able to mentor undergrad
students because great professors mentored me and I want to pass that on.

As for continuing researchers, one of the difficult things about research is
the slow process. There can be a lot of frustrations, but just hang in there.
What I really like about research is the intellectual challenge during the
process.

**How large is your team of researchers and how can interested students get
involved?**

I have seven PhD students and four post-docs, so I mostly have grad students,
though I often have a few undergrad students during the year as well. In fact,
I’m currently am mentoring a chemistry major for her independent study.

I also work with professors in environmental engineering and the Nicholas
School of the Environment here at Duke. We share research grants, write papers
together and mentor each other’s students. It’s the culture at Duke—a culture
of collaboration.

_Judy Zhu is a sophomore transfer student from Canada. She is studying
mechanical engineering._

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

