

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Q&A with a Duke Inventor Dedicated to Reforming Women’s Health

January 31, 2019

Engineering professor Nimmi Ramanujam describes how she came up with the idea
for a device that allows for a speculum-free cervical exam, and what’s next
for her lab.

_By Duke Global Staff_

Ramanujam's invention, the Pocket Colposcope, is a portable alternative to the
traditional colposcope, a bulky machine used by doctors to examine the cervix
for cancer. With the new technology, she wants to create a cervical exam that
does not require a specialty clinic or hospital.

A newer generation of the device has a special accessory, called the
Callascope, that is shaped like a tampon and allows for speculum-free views of
the cervix. This would further expand health services for women by enabling
them to use this technology in a self-exam.

The callascope can also be used as a tool for self-discovery (yes, many women
do not know what the cervix is, says Ramanujam) and has inspired a multimedia
art exhibit on women's reproductive health that will open at the Rubenstein
Arts Center at Duke University on February 1, 2019.

**What gave you the idea to develop the pocket colposcope?**

I was on a trip to Moshi, Tanzania, where I was touring a cervical cancer
clinic with a gynecologist. He said that one of the biggest barriers to
cervical cancer screening is the metal speculum, a device that is used to part
the vaginal walls to look at the cervix. During that visit, that same
colleague challenged me to think of a way that we could visualize the cervix
without the need for the speculum.

When I came back to the United States, I was speaking with a colleague who
happened to show me this tampon-like camera that he was using for a technology
that he was developing. Suddenly, the two conversations connected, and the
idea formed in my mind – can we create a colposcope to look like a tampon, so
that we can insert it into the vaginal canal, rather than having to part the
vaginal canal to see the cervix.

**How does it work?**

The pocket colposcope really just works like a tampon. You insert it, and by
placing the tip of the colposcope close to the cervix – about an inch away –
you can essentially focus and magnify the cervix much like a traditional
colposcope.

We have two versions of the device: One that can be used with a speculum, very
much like is done in a clinical setting, and then another version that has a
tampon-like shell – called the Callascope – through which the pocket
colposcope is simply inserted. It can be used either by the woman herself or
by a health provider to allow for visualization of the cervix.

The reason that we have different versions of the pocket colposcope is to
allow two types of solutions with the same core technology. In the clinical
setting, doctors are already accustomed to looking at the cervix with a
speculum. If they choose to do that, then this is a solution they can work
with that is cheaper, more portable and easier to use than a traditional
colposcope. A traditional colposcope is also not available in many clinics
around the world.

If the speculum is a deterrent, then the speculum-free version becomes an
option. The Callascope can be used by the woman herself or a health provider.
What is nice about the speculum-free version is that the provider or woman
does not need to know how to use a speculum, and it's very intuitive to insert
the device and visualize the cervix.

**What sort of medical problems does the device solve?**

Really, in a nutshell, the device brings a complex referral service for
diagnosing cervical cancer into the screening setting. Normally, women go to a
hospital to get this exam, or they get a substandard exam that doesn't use the
colposcope, just the naked eye of a relatively unskilled provider in a
community health setting.

This essentially can bring high-end capabilities to a low-resource community
and allows women to get an exam that we have become accustomed to in a high-
income setting.

**Where is the pocket colposcope being tested?**

It has been tested in eight countries, including India, Zambia, Tanzania,
Kenya, Honduras and Peru, as well as the United States. We've been able to use
the pocket colposcope on more than one thousand women to-date.

**How long do you think it will take until it is available for patients
outside of the testing groups? What are some of the barriers before this
happens?**

Recently, we received clearance from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
that allows us to manufacture and sell this technology. We anticipate that we
will be able to do this in the next six months, which will allow us to
disseminate the device more broadly to community settings where women can get
screened.

**Do you see the device being used in the doctor's office as well?**

I absolutely see this device being used in the doctor's office. In many
countries in the world –for example, India – a doctor uses a colposcope as
part of the standard of care. But space is at a premium, and colposcopes are
expensive.

When I was in India recently, one of the gynecologists told me that she would
love to use the device in her clinic. There wasn't enough space for a
traditional colposcope. She also said the pocket colposcope would be easier to
use than a standard colposcope when she wanted to biopsy a lesion for
pathology, because the pocket device would not obstruct her line of sight.

**Can you talk about any other projects you and your team are working on?**

As we developed the pocket colposcope and tested it in the field, we realized
that access to treatment is also a major issue. That inspired us to develop a
very low-cost approach for effective ways to treat pre-invasive or invasive
cancer once a lesion is identified.

We have created a treatment where ethanol is mixed with a ubiquitous agent
routinely used in pharmaceuticals called ethyl cellulose. The mixture is
liquid, but creates a gel when injected into an aqueous [water-based] medium
like human tissue. Ethanol is known to destroy cells, so by injecting this
liquid and converting it to a gel inside the tissue, we can locally target and
remove regions of interest, much like a scalpel but without the need for a
surgeon. So, we're now working to develop a see-and-treat strategy for
cervical pre-cancers using the low-cost therapeutic we have developed.

With the pocket colposcope, it's not just enough to take pictures, but it's
also really important to be able to make a decision based on those images. So,
the third project, which is sort of an in-between phase of the pocket
colposcope and the ethanol gel project, is to be able to automatically decide
the diagnosis of a lesion, in order to plan what to do – whether to treat,
refer or send a patient home. For that, we're exploring the use of artificial
intelligence to "task shift" the expertise of a gynecologist to the community
health setting. Through task shifting, health workers are able to take on more
complex tasks usually delegated to an expert physician.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

