

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Foundational Step Shows Quantum Computers Can Be Better Than the Sum of
Their Parts

October 4, 2021 | By Bailey Bedford

Duke researchers show for the first time that an assembly of quantum computing
pieces can be better than the worst parts used to make it

_This article was adapted from theUniversity of Maryland's Joint Quantum
Institute_

Pobody’s nerfect—not even the indifferent, calculating bits that are the
foundation of computers. But Christopher Monroe, the Gihuly Family
Presidential Distinguished Professor in the Department of Electrical and
Computer Engineering and Physics at Duke, together with colleagues from the
University of Maryland's Joint Quantum Institute, have made progress toward
ensuring we can trust the results of quantum computers even when they are
built from pieces that sometimes fail. They have shown in an experiment, for
the first time, that an assembly of quantum computing pieces can be better
than the worst parts used to make it. In a paper published in the journal
_Nature_ on Oct. 4, 2021, the team shared how they took this landmark step
toward reliable, practical quantum computers.

In their experiment, the researchers combined several qubits—the quantum
version of bits—so that they functioned together as a single unit called a
logical qubit. They created the logical qubit based on a quantum error
correction code so that, unlike for the individual physical qubits, errors can
be easily detected and corrected, and they made it to be fault-
tolerant—capable of containing errors to minimize their negative effects.

“Qubits composed of identical atomic ions are natively very clean by
themselves,” says Monroe. “However, at some point, when many qubits and
operations are required, errors must be reduced further, and it is simpler to
add more qubits and encode information differently. The beauty of error
correction codes for atomic ions is they can be very efficient and can be
flexibly switched on through software controls.”

This is the first time that a logical qubit has been shown to be more reliable
than the most error-prone step required to make it. The team was able to
successfully put the logical qubit into its starting state and measure it
99.4% of the time, despite relying on six quantum operations that are
individually expected to work only about 98.9% of the time.

That might not sound like a big difference, but it’s a crucial step in the
quest to build much larger quantum computers. If the six quantum operations
were assembly line workers, each focused on one task, the assembly line would
only produce the correct initial state 93.6% of the time (98.9% multiplied by
itself six times)—roughly ten times worse than the error measured in the
experiment. That improvement is because in the experiment the imperfect pieces
work together to minimize the chance of quantum errors compounding and ruining
the result, similar to watchful workers catching each other's mistakes.

The results were achieved using Monroe’s ion-trap system at UMD, which uses up
to 32 individual charged atoms—ions—that are cooled with lasers and suspended
over electrodes on a chip. They then use each ion as a qubit by manipulating
it with lasers.

“We have 32 laser beams,” says Monroe. “And the atoms are like ducks in a row;
each with its own fully controllable laser beam. I think of it like the atoms
form a linear string and we're plucking it like a guitar string. We're
plucking it with lasers that we turn on and off in a programmable way. And
that's the computer; that's our central processing unit.”

By successfully creating a fault-tolerant logical qubit with this system, the
researchers have shown that careful, creative designs have the potential to
unshackle quantum computing from the constraint of the inevitable errors of
the current state of the art. Fault-tolerant logical qubits are a way to
circumvent the errors in modern qubits and could be the foundation of quantum
computers that are both reliable and large enough for practical uses.

## Correcting Errors and Tolerating Faults

Developing fault-tolerant qubits capable of error correction is important
because Murphy’s law is relentless: No matter how well you build a machine,
something eventually goes wrong. In a computer, any bit or qubit has some
chance of occasionally failing at its job. And the many qubits involved in a
practical quantum computer mean there are many opportunities for errors to
creep in.

Fortunately, engineers can design a computer so that its pieces work together
to catch errors—like keeping important information backed up to an extra hard
drive or having a second person read your important email to catch typos
before you send it. Both the people or the drives have to mess up for a
mistake to survive. While it takes more work to finish the task, the
redundancy helps ensure the final quality.

Some prevalent technologies, like cell phones and high-speed modems, currently
use error correction to help ensure the quality of transmissions and avoid
other inconveniences. Error correction using simple redundancy can decrease
the chance of an uncaught error as long as your procedure isn’t wrong more
often than it’s right—for example, sending or storing data in triplicate and
trusting the majority vote can drop the chance of an error from one in a
hundred to less than one in a thousand.

So while perfection may never be in reach, error correction can make a
computer’s performance as good as required, as long as you can afford the
price of using extra resources. Researchers plan to use quantum error
correction to similarly complement their efforts to make better qubits and
allow them to build quantum computers without having to conquer all the errors
that quantum devices suffer from.

“What's amazing about fault tolerance, is it's a recipe for how to take small
unreliable parts and turn them into a very reliable device,” says Kenneth
Brown, a professor of electrical and computer engineering at Duke and a
coauthor on the paper. “And fault-tolerant quantum error correction will
enable us to make very reliable quantum computers from faulty quantum parts.”

But quantum error correction has unique challenges—qubits are more complex
than traditional bits and can go wrong in more ways. You can’t just copy a
qubit, or even simply check its value in the middle of a calculation. The
whole reason qubits are advantageous is that they can exist in a quantum
superposition of multiple states and can become quantum mechanically entangled
with each other. To copy a qubit you have to know exactly what information
it’s currently storing—in physical terms you have to measure it. And a
measurement puts it into a single well-defined quantum state, destroying any
superposition or entanglement that the quantum calculation is built on.

So for quantum error correction, you must correct mistakes in bits that you
aren’t allowed to copy or even look at too closely. It’s like proofreading
while blindfolded. In the mid-1990s, researchers started proposing ways to do
this using the subtleties of quantum mechanics, but quantum computers are just
reaching the point where they can put the theories to the test.

The key idea is to make a logical qubit out of redundant physical qubits in a
way that can check if the qubits agree on certain quantum mechanical facts
without ever knowing the state of any of them individually.

## Can’t Improve on the Atom

There are many proposed quantum error correction codes to choose from, and
some are more natural fits for a particular approach to creating a quantum
computer. Each way of making a quantum computer has its own types of errors as
well as unique strengths. So building a practical quantum computer requires
understanding and working with the particular errors and advantages that your
approach brings to the table.

The ion trap-based quantum computer that Monroe and colleagues work with has
the advantage that their individual qubits are identical and very stable.
Since the qubits are electrically charged ions, each qubit can communicate
with all the others in the line through electrical nudges, giving freedom
compared to systems that need a solid connection to immediate neighbors.

“They’re atoms of a particular element and isotope so they're perfectly
replicable,” says Monroe. “And when you store coherence in the qubits and you
leave them alone, it exists essentially forever. So the qubit when left alone
is perfect. To make use of that qubit, we have to poke it with lasers, we have
to do things to it, we have to hold on to the atom with electrodes in a vacuum
chamber, all of those technical things have noise on them, and they can affect
the qubit.”

For Monroe’s system, the biggest source of errors is entangling operations—the
creation of quantum links between two qubits with laser pulses. Entangling
operations are necessary parts of operating a quantum computer and of
combining qubits into logical qubits. So while the team can’t hope to make
their logical qubits store information more stably than the individual ion
qubits, correcting the errors that occur when entangling qubits is a vital
improvement.

The researchers selected the Bacon-Shor code as a good match for the
advantages and weaknesses of their system. For this project, they only needed
15 of the 32 ions that their system can support, and two of the ions were not
used as qubits but were only needed to get an even spacing between the other
ions. For the code, they used nine qubits to redundantly encode a single
logical qubit and four additional qubits to pick out locations where potential
errors occurred. With that information, the detected faulty qubits can, in
theory, be corrected without the “quantum-ness” of the qubits being
compromised by measuring the state of any individual qubit.

“The key part of quantum error correction is redundancy, which is why we
needed nine qubits in order to get one logical qubit,” says JQI graduate
student Laird Egan, who is the first author of the paper. “But that redundancy
helps us look for errors and correct them, because an error on a single qubit
can be protected by the other eight.”

The team successfully used the Bacon-Shor code with the ion-trap system. The
resulting logical qubit required six entangling operations—each with an
expected error rate between 0.7% and 1.5%. But thanks to the careful design of
the code, these errors don't combine into an even higher error rate when the
entanglement operations were used to prepare the logical qubit in its initial
state.

The team only observed an error in the qubit's preparation and measurement
0.6% of the time—less than the lowest error expected for any of the individual
entangling operations. The team was then able to move the logical qubit to a
second state with an error of just 0.3%. The team also intentionally
introduced errors and demonstrated that they could detect them.

“This is really a demonstration of quantum error correction improving
performance of the underlying components for the first time,” says Egan. “And
there's no reason that other platforms can't do the same thing as they scale
up. It's really a proof of concept that quantum error correction works.”

As the team continues this line of work, they say they hope to achieve similar
success in building even more challenging quantum logical gates out of their
qubits, performing complete cycles of error correction where the detected
errors are actively corrected, and entangling multiple logical qubits
together.

“Up until this paper, everyone's been focused on making one logical qubit,”
says Egan. “And now that we’ve made one, we're like, ‘Single logical qubits
work, so what can you do with two?’”

In addition to Monroe, Brown and Egan, the other coauthors of the paper are
the following: JQI research scientist Marko Cetina; JQI graduate students
Andrew Risinger, Daiwei Zhu and Debopriyo Biswas; Duke University physics
graduate student Dripto M. Debroy; Duke University postdoctoral researchers
Crystal Noel and Michael Newman; and Georgia Institute of Technology graduate
student Muyuan Li.

## Related News

May 21, 2021 | Duke Government Relations

### On the Hill: Chris Monroe Briefs Congress on Quantum Computing’s Role in
Nation’s Scientific Computing Enterprise

July 28, 2017

### IonQ Raises $20M to Advance Quantum Computing for Commercial Applications

January 06, 2016

### Grant Targets Quantum Computing's Error Control Challenge

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

