

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Raina Kishan: Engineering Better Medicines

January 19, 2017

2017 NEA Grand Challenge Scholar Profile

  * Major: Biomedical Engineering
  * Grand Challenge: Engineering Better Medicines
  * GC Advisor: Professor Nimmi Ramanujam
  * Project Title: Engineering the Pocket Colposcope

**What led you to pursue engineering at Duke?**

I came into engineering because I really liked math and science, but after
taking the introductory courses I was immediately drawn to BME. I thought the
intersection between engineering and medicine was interesting, and I thought
biomedical engineering was one of the main drivers of progress in medicine. My
electives led me to this path with optics and tissue engineering, and that
opened the door for me to start at Dr. Ramanujan’s lab by the end of my
sophomore year.

**What is your Grand Challenge Scholar project?**

I’ve been researching cervical cancer in developing countries. In the three
years that I’ve been a part of this program I’ve been working to develop a
device for cervical cancer diagnosis called the Pocket Colposcope. A
colposcope is used to take pictures of the cervix and a big problem for why
cervical cancer is hard to detect in developing countries is that a colposcope
is expensive, large and difficult to move around. But this device is portable
and works like a tampon, but it takes high-end photos that we can use to
diagnose for cervical cancer. I was able to use the resources from this
project to go to Lima, Peru and help with the clinical trials in a cancer
hospital there.

**How did the Grand Challenge Scholar Project build off your other experience
at Duke?**

During my senior year I took Dr. Malkin’s class, “Design for the Developing
World” and it influenced what I wanted to do with engineering, and that,
paired with my experience in Dr. Ramanujan’s lab, showed me that I wanted to
design products and work with healthcare in the developing world. Recognizing
that helped me focus my curriculum and it gave me a better idea about what I
wanted to do moving forward. It also helped me put my Grand Challenge Scholar
project into perspective, because not only was I thinking about the biomedical
design of these tools, but it also helped me put them into a cultural
perspective and get a better understanding of why these tools are so
important.

**How do you think your experiences at Duke shaped your perspective moving
forward?**

Engineering is definitely what I’m most passionate about, and using these
tools to improve women’s healthcare and improve that global perspective. I
started with a broad understanding about what I liked going into this program,
but these experiences have shown me what engineering can do, and I think
that’s given me a better understanding about what good engineering can
accomplish. I’ve been lucky to have experiences like Duke Engage and the Grand
Challenge Program help shape my worldview, and it has shown me how my work can
be beneficial for others.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

