

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Ramanujam Receives the 2020 Michael S. Feld Biophotonics Award

February 5, 2020

Nimmi Ramanujam was recognized by the Optical Society for her advances in
cancer diagnostics and therapeutics

This is a condensed version of the full announcement released from the Optical
Society. Click here to read the full press release.

Nimmi Ramanujam received the Optical Society's 2020 Michael S. Feld
Biophotonics Award, in recognition for her work to improve diagnostics and
therapeutics to address global disparities in cervical and breast cancer
management and mortality.

“Nimmi Ramanujam, a notable leader in biophotonics research, is known for
addressing some of the greatest global challenges with disparities in cancer
treatment,” says 2020 OSA President Stephen D. Fantone, founder and president
of the Optikos Corporation. “Ramanujam’s selection as the 2020 Michael S. Feld
Biophotonics Award recipient is a true testament to her dedication to the
field.”

Ramanujam is the director of Duke's Center for Global Women's Health
Technologies, where she empowers trainees at Duke and beyond to create
impactful solutions to improve the lives of women and girls globally. She
received a PhD in Biomedical Engineering from University of Texas, Austin,
USA, and held positions at The University of Texas, Austin; National
Institutes of Health; University of Pennsylvania and University of Wisconsin,
Madison, before joining Duke University on 2005.

Her research on women’s cancers has centered on translational and laboratory
research of relevance to breast and cervical cancer. In the case of cervical
cancer prevention, her focus is to develop strategies that reduce attrition to
treatment including early screening and diagnostics. In the breast cancer care
cascade, she focused on molecular and metabolic imaging to prevent recurrence.
A third area in her research program focuses on low cost ablative strategies
for local control of cancer in resource limited settings.

Ramanujam has more than 20 patents to-date and over 150 publications for
screening, diagnostic, and surgical applications. She has raised over $30M of
funding to pursue these innovations. Her work has been through numerous awards
including: the TR100 Young Innovator Award from MIT, the Global Indus
Technovator Award from MIT, Era of Hope Scholar Awards from the Department of
Defense, the Stasnell Family Award from the Pratt School of Engineering at
Duke, and the Women in Molecular Imaging Leadership Award (WIMIN) from the
World Molecular Imaging Congress (WMIC). She is a Fellow of several optical
and biomedical engineering societies including OSA, SPIE and AIMBE. She has
also been elected to the National Academy of Inventors and is a Fullbright
Fellow.

Established in 2012, the Michael S. Feld Biophotonics Award recognizes
innovative and influential contributions to the field of biophotonics,
regardless of career stage. The award encompasses all areas of biophotonics
including fundamental optics discoveries in biology, development of new
theoretical frameworks and novel instrumentation and clinical translational
research for biomedicine. The award is endowed by Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Hamamatsu Photonics K.K., Coherent Inc., David Feld, Ramachandra
Dasari, Adam Wax, Kyungwon An, Robert Gold, Charles Holbrow, Firooz Partovi,
Manoharan Ramasamy, Rebecca Richards-Kortum and Guillermo Tearney.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

