

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Ramanujam Receives 2019 WIMIN Outstanding Leadership Award

September 9, 2019

Women in Molecular Imaging Network honors BME professor for her pioneering
work to improve global cervical cancer screening

Nimmi Ramanujam, the Robert W. Carr Jr. Professor of Biomedical Engineering at
Duke University, has received the 2019 Women in Molecular Imaging (WIMIN)
Outstanding Leadership Award in recognition of her work surrounding cervical
cancer screening and diagnosis.

The WIMIN Interest Group, part of the World Molecular Imaging Congress,
fosters the career development and advancement of women in molecular imaging
sciences, and recognizes the professional and scientific accomplishments of
women within the field. The annual Outstanding Leadership Award was created to
recognize a prominent female molecular imaging scientist who has supported the
advancement of women in STEM positions through leadership, mentorship,
friendship and active support of WIMIN’s goals and vision.

Working at the intersection of engineering and global health, Ramanujam and
her lab explore and create new tools to improve cancer screening and
diagnosis. In addition to her role in Duke BME, Ramanujam is the director of
Duke’s Global Women’s Health Technologies Center, a joint venture between Duke
Global Health Institute and the Pratt School of Engineering. One of her most
recognizable projects is the Pocket Colposcope, a compact tool that allows
health care workers to scan for and diagnose cervical cancer without relying
on an expensive colposcope. The Callascope––the newest version of the
device––also removes the need for a speculum, making the exams more
comfortable for women. The Pocket Colposcope has been used in India, Kenya,
Tanzania, Zambia, Peru, Honduras, Guatemala and the United States.

To learn more about the WIMIN Interest Group and the Outstanding Leadership
Award, click here.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

