

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Ramanujam Receives 2019 Social Impact Abie Award

June 19, 2019

Award recognizes a woman whose work is making a positive impact on women,
technology and society, and who has developed technology that caused social
change

Nimmi Ramanujam, the Robert W. Carr, Jr., Professor of Biomedical Engineering
at Duke University, has won the 2019 Social Impact Abie Award.

Given by AnitaB.org, a nonprofit organization dedicated to connecting,
inspiring and guiding women in computing and organizations that view
technology innovation as a strategic imperative, the award recognizes a woman
whose work is making a positive impact on women, technology and society, and
who has developed technology that caused social change.

The award is part of five given annually by AnitaB.org in the categories of
Technical Leadership, Social Impact, Educational Innovation, Emerging
Technologist and Student of Vision.

"I’ve always believed you should harness what you have learned to empower
someone else,” said Ramanujam, who is also a faculty member in the Global
Health Institute and Department of Pharmacology and Cell Biology at Duke.
“It’s been exciting to see the programs and technologies our team has
developed over the years make a difference in the lives of women and girls
worldwide."

Ramanujam has a mission to develop technology to have wide-reaching impact in
women’s health. As director of the Center for Global Women’s Health
Technologies at Duke, she empowers trainees at the school and beyond to create
impactful solutions to improve the lives of women and girls globally.
Ramanujam’s research on women’s cancers focuses on designing innovations that
enable complex services to be accessible at the primary care level for cancer
prevention, and to develop tools that will make cancer treatment more
effective and efficient.

“By recognizing the circumstances and needs of her patients, Nimmi developed
technology that will literally save women’s lives and have sweeping impact on
women’s reproductive health in low resource areas,” said Brenda Darden
Wilkerson, president and CEO of AnitaB.org. “We are delighted to recognize her
life-changing influence on women’s health, her work to empower trainees in
design thinking at her institution and beyond, and her creative and impactful
solutions to improve the lives of women and girls globally.”

Each year, AnitaB.org honors the accomplishments of women in computing at
Grace Hopper Celebration (GHC). Each winner receives a cash prize, an
opportunity to speak at GHC, and an expenses-paid trip to the celebration. The
world’s largest gathering of women technologists, the 2019 Grace Hopper
Celebration (GHC 19) will be held October 1-4 in Orlando, FL.

## Related News

February 12, 2018

### Ramanujam, Asiedu Receive the 2018 Velji Award for Global Health

August 25, 2015

### Ramanujam Awarded Two Grants to Help Screen for Cervical Cancer in Africa

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

