

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Randles Named a 2020 Young Innovator in Cellular and Molecular Engineering

November 12, 2020 | Michaela Kane

Honor recognizes junior faculty for innovative and impactful bioengineering
research

Amanda Randles, the Alfred Winborne and Victoria Stover Mordecai Assistant
Professor of Biomedical Sciences at Duke University, has been named a 2020
Young Innovator of Cellular and Molecular Bioengineering. She was one of 12
faculty selected to present their research in a special issue of the Nature
journal Cellular and Molecular Engineering.

Randles’ work in Duke Biomedical Engineering involves using supercomputers to
simulate how blood, particles and cells can travel through veins and arteries
in the body. Her signature project is HARVEY, a massively parallel fluid
dynamics simulation that can model the full human arterial system at
subcellular resolution. Randles aims to use the technology to improve the
diagnosis, prevention and treatment of human diseases.

Randles was recognized for work using HARVEY to model how circulating tumor
cells can overcome fluid shear stress to metastasize and spread at branch
points in the vascular system, with particular focus on tumor deformability.
This work was the result of a strong collaborative effort between Randles’ lab
and a team at Lawrence Livermore National Lab.

To receive the title of Young Innovator of Cellular and Molecular Engineering,
researchers must hold the rank of Assistant Professor at the time of
nomination. Awardees presented their papers in a special, two-part “on-demand”
session at the virtual 2020 Biomedical Engineering Society meeting in October,
which also included a Q&A session with the online audience.

“I’m honored to be selected as part of this distinguished cohort,” says
Randles. “Past awardees, like BME’s own Brenton Hoffman, have been incredibly
impressive, and I’m honored to be included. I’m greatly appreciative of the
support and recognition of the biomedical application of our research.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

