

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Recognizing Language Prejudice

June 9, 2021

Angus Bowers of Duke Engineering’s Graduate Communications & Intercultural
Programs offers insights on language-related biases for the Pratt community

By Angus Bowers, Duke Engineering Graduate Communications and Intercultural
Programs

_Imagine someone using either "y'all" or "youse guys" to refer a group of 2 of
more people. Is one term more acceptable to you than the other? If you use
these terms, you have likely encountered people who look down on you for doing
so. If you purposefully do not use these terms, you might have considered them
with disapproval. However, disapproval shows us a small example of language
prejudice. Often championed as protecting correctness in speech, language
prejudice is really a scapegoat for one more aspect of implicit bias in US
society. To put it simply, language prejudice IS prejudice. Acknowledging this
type of discrimination as racial prejudice and/or xenophobia is crucial in
creating systemic change with inclusion and equity for all._

Did you know that there are linguists and other language experts who work at
the Pratt School of Engineering? There are! Most of us work in Graduate
Communications and Intercultural Programs (GCIP). Beyond preparing Pratt
students to excel in engineering, we also want to ensure that they will be
excellent at communicating about the work they conduct here. For that reason,
linguists, like me and my colleagues at GCIP, are part of the great
engineering community we are all fortunate to call home here at Duke.

While the general extent of my work in language at Pratt is to help ensure
success for our graduate students as they prepare presentations and write
theses, articles, and cover letters, the issue of language and engineering is
a complicated one for many within our community.  
Over the past year, the intense pressure and stress of the COVID pandemic in
combination with blatant acts embodying systemic racism and inequity rapidly
brought the question of race and equality to the center of national discourse,
even though that had never ceased being in forefront of People of Color's
minds. As U.S. society at large has come to examine the biases we bring to
each situation in our everyday lives, one of the most overlooked aspects, and
yet one that is probably one of the most rife with bias, is language.

International students at Duke are well aware of this. They often face extra
scrutiny about their academic ability when their English is not "perfect."
Peers and professors may question their ability to do work based solely on the
fact that their English may not always be clear at first. However, language
bias is very prevalent in all academic settings—not only for international
students, but for domestic ones as well. For most marginalized people this is
far from a new realization, but in the spirit of helping to raise awareness
for those who have not considered this issue, I offer these thoughts on
language and bias and what they might mean for Pratt.

Language is one of those funny things. Everyone speaks or signs one, and in
doing so, usually feels like they are an expert in how language works.
However, you can drive a car and not necessarily understand how a car moves
forward once you start the ignition. Linguists devote their time and life's
work to understanding how language works by studying it scientifically, and
sociolinguists, in particular, by understanding how it is perceived. One
question linguists often hear is about the importance of speaking "correctly."
This idea is called prescriptivism—the notion that there is a correct (and by
association, an incorrect) way to talk. You'll hear it pop up in many
different ways.

Whenever language gets established, it is constantly renegotiated. This is
because it's not monolithic. Large groups of people speak languages and
everyone is a stakeholder, so anyone can make a contribution. Also, ALL
speakers of ALL languages are intrinsically lazy and will often make
difficult-to-say phrases or words easier to say. I don't use the word lazy to
characterize any dialect or aspect of an individual or group's speech that
way, but rather I use it to consider the corners any speaker of any language
will cut to get to the goal faster. Think of it like water pouring down a
mountain; it's going to take the path of least resistance. In language we call
this "ease of articulation." If something is difficult to utter, people will
find a way to simplify it without thinking.

An old chestnut often reappears when talking about the moving of a sound for
ease of articulation. The word "ask" is often pronounced as "aks" (said like
'axe'). This happens because the combination of "s" and "k" coming at the end
of a syllable is not only more difficult to articulate, but also statistically
not as common as the combo of "k" followed by "s". However, for many people
this sound change is not acceptable. While these two versions of pronouncing
this word have been around in free variation since Middle English, in current
times, "aks" gets a bad rap because it is seen by many as uneducated and for
that reason, unacceptable. It also must be mentioned that "aks" is also seen
as a feature of African American English, although this perception (as with
many of the biases around language) is not true for all Black speakers, and,
in addition, the "aks" pronunciation is often a feature for people who do not
speak African American English (think of the NYC metro area). For many
prescriptivists, this form evokes a reaction like nails scratching a
chalkboard (if anyone remembers what that sound was before the days of
whiteboards).

However, take for example, the word "realtor." Many people find the
combination of the vowels "e" and "a" (which sound like "ee" and "uh") in
juxtaposition with the vowel-like consonant "L" to be very difficult to utter.
So, they take the "L" and move it between the vowels to get a pronunciation
that sounds like "ree-lah-tor." They move this one sound to a different
position to make it easier to say, and while that may bother some language
purists (prescriptivists) it's generally accepted that some people say "real-
tor" and others say "re-la-tor." It might be annoying to some, but others
might not even notice. In general, it doesn't affect what people think of that
person or their intelligence.

So, why is it people can recognize that sound changes can occur in various
words and some can be seen as acceptable and some as unacceptable? This is an
example of language prejudice. The examples cited before are not that
different, but garner different perceptions due to other underlying biases.
The fact that "aks" is seen as "Black speech" or African American English
overrides the fact that it is not that different from "re-la-tor," which is
not associated with an ethnic variety of English. Wolfram (2013) suggests that
language prejudice is actually a proxy for other prejudices. In other words,
language, seemingly distanced from ethnic prejudice, becomes an avenue where
that prejudice is allowed to raise its head without sounding overtly racist or
prejudiced. However, it's not the language that's an issue, but rather,
underlying discriminatory currents gain expression under the mask of "language
incorrectness."

Although the analysis of language is not necessarily part of the course of
study for most engineers at Pratt, and most engineers are not language experts
(although some are!), as I mentioned earlier, everyone does speak or sign a
language. With that ability comes also the responsibility to consider the
waters we are all swimming in. Additionally, as engineers are experts in
analysis, the duty to be aware of the bias suspended in our waters is also
incumbent upon us all. In these days of actively working against racism and
xenophobia, it becomes more and more important for us to recognize
microaggressions that are being "sneaked in" under the guise of language and
to confront them. This not only helps us understand our languages better, but
also helps us build our community stronger.

References:

Wolfram, W. (2013, Spring) Sound effects: How to challenge language prejudice
in the classroom. Teaching Tolerance Magazine (43).
learningforjustice.org/magazine/spring-2013/sound-effects

Woolson, C. & Osorio, J. (2019, Jun) When English is not your mother tongue.
Nature. 570(7760).

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

