

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Replicating a Living Aneurysm with 3D Printing and Computer Simulations

October 21, 2020 | By Jeremy Thomas

Lab team develops first-ever living 3D-printed aneurysm to improve surgical
procedures, personalize treatments

_From Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory_

Brain aneurysms affect about one in every 50 Americans and can lead to serious
medical emergencies, including stroke, brain damage and death if they burst.
Existing treatment options are limited and often invasive, and surgical
outcomes can vary widely from person to person.

But medical practitioners may be able to improve existing treatment methods
and develop new personalized ones, thanks to researchers at Lawrence Livermore
National Laboratory (LLNL) and their outside collaborators. The team, which
includes scientists at Duke University and Texas A&M, has become the first to
produce a living, bioprinted aneurysm outside of the human body, perform a
medical procedure on it and observe it respond and heal as it would in an
actual human brain.

As described in the journal _Biofabrication_ , an LLNL team led by engineers
William "Rick" Hynes and Monica Moya were able to replicate an aneurysm _in
vitro_ by 3D printing blood vessels with human cerebral cells. Hynes performed
an endovascular repair procedure on the printed aneurysm — inserting a
catheter into the blood vessel and tightly packing platinum coils inside the
aneurysm sac. After the packing treatment, the researchers introduced blood
plasma into the aneurysm and observed the formation of a blood clot where the
coils were located, cutting it off from fluid flow. The researchers also were
able to observe the "post-op" healing process of the endothelial cells within
the vessels.

LLNL scientists said the platform, when combined with computer modeling,
represents a significant step to developing patient-specific care for
aneurysms based on an individual's blood vessel geometry, blood pressure and
other factors, and could help overcome one of biomedical engineering's biggest
hurdles — the time it takes for new surgical techniques and technologies to
leap from the laboratory to the clinic.

"While there are a lot of promising treatment options, some still have a long
way to go," said Moya, the project's principal investigator. "Animal models
aren't necessarily the best way to try out these options, as they lack direct
observation of treatment effects and have uncontrollable aneurysm geometries.
Having this robust, human in vitro testing platform could help facilitate new
treatments. If we can replicate aneurysms as much as we need to with these
devices, we might help accelerate some of these products into the clinic and
essentially provide patients with better treatment options."

Caused by a weakening in the artery walls, cerebral aneurysms are
characterized by a "ballooning" or bulging of a blood vessel in the brain and
can be potentially fatal if they rupture. One common treatment is surgical
"clipping" — attaching a metal clip to the base of the aneurysm to redirect
blood flow away and keep it from bursting. The procedure is highly invasive,
requiring surgeons to open up the skull and expose the brain. In some cases,
such as when the aneurysm is located in inaccessible regions within the brain,
the treatment isn't even an option.

A more common and less invasive treatment is the endovascular metal coiling
approach, where a surgeon feeds a thin metal catheter — inserted into an
artery in the groin — up through the body and into the aneurysm, packing it
with coils or stents and causing it to clot. The endothelium lining the blood
vessel grows over the clotted plug, walling the aneurysm off from the rest of
the vasculature. The downside to "coiling" is that success is highly dependent
on a variety of factors, including the geometry of the patient's blood
vessels, which differ from one person to the next, researchers said.

To take some of the guesswork out of aneurysm treatments, Hynes, the original
principal investigator who proposed the project, realized researchers would
need a way to validate more predictive 3D models that take patient geometry
into account. Bioprinting with human cells, Hynes said, allows researchers to
create biologically relevant experimental models of aneurysm interventions
that are identical to the computer models, in order to validate them
accurately and easily.

"We looked at the problem and thought that if we could pair computational
modeling and experimental approaches, maybe we could come up with a more
deterministic method of treating aneurysms or selecting treatments that could
best serve the patient," said Hynes, who led the project for its first year.
"Now we can start to build the framework of a personalized model that a
surgical practitioner could use to determine the best method for treating an
aneurysm."

Hynes said LLNL is taking a "three-pronged approach," teaming with former LLNL
scientist Duncan Maitland — who leads a biomedical engineering group at Texas
A&M and also heads a company that develops an experimental shape memory coil
for treating aneurysms — and Amanda Randles, a former Lab computational
scientist and current Duke University assistant professor who developed a code
for simulating blood flow, called HARVEY. Using the device, Lab researchers
were able to validate Randles' flow dynamics model, verifying results that
would be observed in the real world. At low flow rates, researchers saw little
movement of blood into the aneurysm, whereas an increased flow rate, such as
occurs when a person is agitated or nervous, resulted in a circular flow of
blood throughout the aneurysm, as would be expected in a true brain aneurysm.

To create the bioprinted aneurysm, Hynes and the team started by printing the
vessel geometry with a "sacrificial" ink, surrounded by a protein-based
hydrogel. They cooled the system to dissolve the ink, leaving the vasculature
shape behind. Then they introduced human brain endothelial cells, which coated
the channels, forming the actual blood vessels and aneurysm. Hynes performed
the coiling procedure with a microcatheter and platinum coils, believed to be
the first surgical intervention ever performed on an artificial living tissue.
Eight days after the procedure, the researchers observed the endothelium
beginning to heal itself.

By combining the 3D-printed platform with computational models, researchers
said they've developed a potential tool for surgeons to pre-select the best
coil types needed to fully pack an aneurysm to result in the best treatment
outcome, and perform "test runs" of procedures before attempting them on the
human patient.

"Essentially a clinician could literally look at somebody's brain scan, run it
through the modeling software, and the software could show the fluid dynamics
prior to treatment," Hynes said. "It also should be able to simulate that
treatment and allow the practitioner to narrow down to a certain type of coil
or packing volume to ensure the best possible outcome."

Most computational models of aneurysms are validated by inducing animals with
aneurysms and performing surgery on them. Animal models are imperfect,
researchers explained, because it's difficult to gather data on them, and
their vessel geometries aren't reproducible. Scientists also use non-
biological devices, such as 3D-printed silicone tubes, where vessel geometry
can be controlled, but the results may not reflect human biology.

Unlike animal models, LLNL's platform allows scientists to directly measure
the fluid dynamics inside the vessels and aneurysm while maintaining
biological relevance, the best of all worlds for validating a computer model,
researchers said.

"This is an ideal platform for an in silico model because we can make these
flow measurements that would be incredibly difficult to make if you were doing
this in an animal," Moya said. "What's exciting is that this platform mimics
blood vessel compliance and the mechanical stiffness of brain tissue. It's
also robust enough to handle a coiling procedure. You're seeing the vessel
distend and move, but it's able to withstand the procedure — very much like
you would in vivo. This makes it ideal to be used as a training platform for
surgeons or as an in vitro testing system for embolization devices."

In addition to patient-specific care and serving as a testbed for surgical
training, researchers said the platform has potential for improving the
understanding of basic biology and the post-surgery healing response.

While early results are promising, the researchers cautioned there's a long
way to go before the platform sees application in the clinical environment.
The team's next step is to combine a two-dimensional blood-clotting model
developed by LLNL computational engineer and paper co-author Jason Ortega with
Randles' 3D fluid dynamics model, to simulate how blood clots form in response
to the coils in three dimensions. They aim to compare the traditional bare
coils with the experimental shape memory polymer coils developed by Maitland
that are designed to expand inside the aneurysm to promote better clotting and
enhance patient outcomes.

The work was funded by the Laboratory Directed Research and Development
program. Co-authors included Lindy Jang of Texas A&M University, Javier
Alvarado and Elisa Wasson of LLNL, Marianna Pepona of Duke University and
Landon Nash of Shape Memory Medical.

## Related News

May 13, 2020

### Virtual Reality Blood Flow Simulation To Improve Cardiovascular
Interventions

August 06, 2019

### Simulating Blood Flow at the Cellular Level

May 02, 2019

### HARVEY Helps Move Bioprinted Organs Closer to Reality

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

