

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Researchers Reveal the Inner Workings of a Viral DNA-Packaging Motor

June 3, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

Trilogy of papers provide insight into a critical step in how some viruses
reproduce

A group of researchers have discovered the detailed inner workings of the
molecular motor that packages genetic material into double-stranded DNA
viruses. The advance provides insight into a critical step in the reproduction
cycle of viruses such as pox- herpes- and adeno-viruses. It could also give
inspiration to researchers creating microscopic machines based on naturally
occurring biomotors.

The research was conducted by scientists from Duke University, the University
of Minnesota, the University of Massachusetts and the University of Texas
Medical Branch (UTMB). The results appear online in a trilogy of papers
published in Science Advances, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences
and Nucleic Acids Research.

“There were several missing pieces of information that prevented us from
understanding how these kinds of DNA packaging motors work, which hindered our
ability to design therapeutics or evolve new technologies,” said Gaurav Arya,
professor of mechanical engineering and materials science, biomedical
engineering, and chemistry at Duke. “But with new insights and simulations, we
were able to piece together a model of this fantastic mechanism, which is the
most detailed ever created for this kind of system.”

Viruses come in many varieties, but their classification generally depends
upon whether they encode their genetic blueprints into RNA or single- or
double-stranded DNA. The difference matters in many ways and affects how the
genetic material is packaged into new viruses. While some viruses build a
protein container called a capsid around newly produced RNA or DNA, others
create the capsid first and then fill it with the genetic material.

> “Trying to see the motor attached to the virus is like trying to see the
> details in the Statue of Liberty’s torch by taking a photo of the entire
> statue.”
>
> Joshua Pajak.

Most double-stranded DNA viruses take the latter route, which presents many
challenges. DNA is negatively charged and does not want to be crammed together
into a small space. And it’s packaged into an extremely dense, nearly
crystalline structure, which also requires a lot of force.

“The benefit of this is that, when the virus is ready to infect a new cell,
the pressure helps inject DNA into the cell once it’s punctured,” said Joshua
Pajak, a doctoral student working in Arya’s laboratory. “It’s been estimated
that the pressure exceeds 800 PSI, which is almost ten times the pressure in a
corked bottle of champagne.”

Forcing DNA into a tiny capsid at that amount of pressure requires an
extremely powerful motor. Until recently, researchers only had a vague sense
of how that motor worked because of how difficult it is to visualize. The
motor only assembles on the virus particle, which is enormous compared to the
motor.

“Trying to see the motor attached to the virus is like trying to see the
details in the Statue of Liberty’s torch by taking a photo of the entire
statue,” said Pajak.

But at a recent conference, Pajak learned that Marc Morais, professor of
biochemistry and molecular biology at UTMB, and Paul Jardine, professor of
diagnostic and biological sciences at the University of Minnesota, had been
working on this motor for years and had the equipment and skills needed to see
the details. Some of their initial results appeared to match the models Pajak
was building with what little information was already available. The group
grew excited that their separate findings were converging toward a common
mechanism and quickly set about solving the mystery of the viral motor
together.

In a paper published in Science Advances, Morais and his colleagues resolved
the details of the entire motor in one of its configurations. They found that
the motor is made up of five proteins attached to one another in a ring-like
formation. Each of these proteins are like two suction cups with a spring in
between, which allows the bottom portion to move vertically in a helical
formation so that it can grab onto the helical backbone of DNA.

“Because you could fit about 100,000 of these motors on the head of a pin and
they’re all jiggling around, getting a good look at them proved difficult,”
said Morais. “But after my UTMB colleagues Michael Woodson and Mark White
helps us image them with a cryo-electron microscope, a general framework of
the mechanism fell into place.”

In a second paper, published in Nucleic Acids Research, the Morais group
captured the motor in a second configuration using x-ray crystallography. This
time the bottom suction cups of the motor were all scrunched up together in a
planar ring, leading the researchers to imagine that the motor might move DNA
into the virus by ratcheting between the two configurations.

> “Joshua pieced together lots of clues and information to create this model.
> But a model is only useful if it can predict new insights that we didn’t
> already know.”
>
> gaurav arya

To test this hypothesis, Pajak and Arya performed heavy-duty simulations on
Anton 2, the fastest supercomputer currently available for running molecular
dynamics simulations. Their results not only supported the proposed mechanism,
but also provided information on how exactly the motor’s cogs contort between
the two configurations.

While the tops of the proteins remain statically attached to the virus
particle, their bottom halves move up and down in a cyclic pattern powered by
an energy-carrying molecule called ATP. Once all the proteins have moved
up—dragging the DNA along with them—the proteins release the byproduct of the
ATP chemical reaction. This causes the lower ring to release the DNA and reach
back down into their original helical state, where they once again grab on to
more ATP and DNA to repeat the process.

“Joshua pieced together lots of clues and information to create this model,”
said Arya. “But a model is only useful if it can predict new insights that we
didn’t already know.”

At its core, the model is a series of mechanical actions that must fit
together and take place in sequential order for everything to work properly.
Pajak’s simulations predicted a specific series of mechanical signals that
tell the bottoms of the proteins whether or not they should be gripping the
DNA. Like a line of dominoes falling, removing one of the signaling pathways
from the middle should stop the chain reaction and block the signal.

> “All technology is inspired by nature in one way or another. Now that we
> really know how this molecular motor works, hopefully it will inspire other
> researchers to create new inventions using these same mechanisms.”
>
> gaurav arya

To validate this prediction, the researchers turned to Jardine and colleagues
Shelley Grimes and Dwight Anderson to see if removing one of the signaling
dominoes actually stopped the motor from packaging DNA. A third paper,
published in PNAS, shows that the sabotage worked. After mutating a domino in
the signaling pathway so that it was unable to function, the motor could still
bind and burn fuel just as well as ever, but it was much worse at actually
packaging DNA.

“The new mechanism predicted by the high-resolution structures and the
detailed predictions provided a level of detail greater than we ever
previously had,” said Jardine. “This allowed us to test the role of critical
components of the motor, and therefore assess the validity of this new
mechanism as we currently understand it.”

The result is a strong indication that the model is very close to describing
how the motor behaves in nature. The group plans to continue their highly
integrated structural, biochemical and simulation approach to further test and
refine the proposed model. They hope that that this fundamental understanding
could potentially be used to someday fight disease or create a synthetic
molecular motor.

“All technology is inspired by nature in one way or another,” said Arya. “Now
that we really know how this molecular motor works, hopefully it will inspire
other researchers to create new inventions using these same mechanisms.”

This work was supported by the National Institutes of Health (GM118817,
GM122979, GM127365) and the National Science Foundation (MCB1817338). Cryo-EM
data were also collected at NIH-supported regional cryo-EM imaging facilities
(1U24 GM116787-01, 1U24 GM116792-01). Simulations were performed on Anton 2
supercomputer made available by D.E. Shaw Research and hosted at the
Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center via the NIH (R01GM116961) and the Comet
supercomputer hosted at the San Diego Supercomputer Center via the NSF
(ACI-1053575).

CITATIONS:

“Viral Packaging ATPases Utilize a Glutamate Switch to Couple ATPase Activity
and DNA Translocation.” Joshua Pajak, Rockney Atz, Brendan J. Hilbert, Marc C.
Morais, Brian A. Kelch, Paul Jardine, and Gaurav Arya. PNAS, April 27, 2021
118 (17) e2024928118. DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2024928118

“A Viral Genome Packaging Motor Transitions Between Cyclic and Helical
Symmetry to Translocate dsDNA,” Michael Woodson, Joshua Pajak, Bryon P.
Mahler, Wei Zhao, Wei Zhang, Gaurav Arya, Mark A. White, Paul J. Jardine and
Marc C. Morais. Science Advances, 07 May 2021: Vol. 7, no. 19, eabc1955. DOI:
10.1126/sciadv.abc1955

“Atomistic Basis Of Force Generation, Translocation, and Coordination in a
Viral Genome Packaging Motor,” Joshua Pajak, Erik Dill2, Emilio Reyes-Aldrete,
Mark A. White, Brian A.Kelch, Paul J. Jardine, Gaurav Arya1, and Marc C.
Morais. Nucleic Acids Research, 2021. DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkab372

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

