

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# REU at 25: Distinguished Alums

September 4, 2013

Over a quarter-century, hundreds of students have had authentic research
experiences at Duke Engineering

For more than 25 years, in the Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU)
program.

Here are what some did—and are doing now:

## Derek Braun

  * REU year: 1995 (from Gallaudet University)
  * Mentor: Monty Reichert and graduate student Adam Sharkawy
  * Project summary: Research and set up an assay for quantitating the
    collagen content in fibrotic tissue samples
  * Currently: Professor of biology and director of the Molecular Genetics
    Laboratory at Gallaudet University

Impact of REU experience: “It helped my self-confidence as a scientist. It
taught me that the daily routine of science is about solving ad-hoc problems.
It helped me understand the research laboratory environment, the working
schedule, and the professional codes of conduct. It gave me a taste of what
it'd be like to go to a different university, with its own culture, and in a
different city.”

* * *

## Chris Tralie

  * REU year: 2009 (from Princeton University)
  * Mentor: Matt Reynolds
  * Project title: “Robotic Navigation with RFID Waypoints”
  * Currently: PhD student at Duke Engineering and winner of an NSF Graduate
    Fellowship

Impact of REU experience: “The REU experience was the push I needed to go
forward with applying to graduate school. Before that, I likely would have
gravitated towards industry, which in hindsight isn't as good of a fit for me
as my current environment as a PhD student. I discovered that summer that I
like working on problems that only have very general guidelines, where there
is a lot of space for the creative process and initiative.“

* * *

## Daniel Lundberg

  * REU year: 2001 (from Gallaudet University)
  * Mentor: Fan Yuan
  * Project summary: Tested polymers of different viscosities for drug
    delivery in tumors
  * Currently: Associate professor of chemistry at Gallaudet University

Impact of REU experience: “The REU experience helped develop my research
skills, which was beneficial in my research career and also for my teaching
career where I advise students on research.”

* * *

## Edwina Jones

  * REU year: 2010 (from Vanderbilt University)
  * Mentor: Jeffrey Scruggs, former assistant professor in the Department
    Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * Project title: “Earthquake Response Reduction with Electromechanical
    Transduction Networks”
  * Currently: Just received her masters in mechanical engineering from Duke
    in 2013 and is exploring job opportunities

Impact of REU experience: “This experience caused me to think more about how
what I do affects others. I want to have a career that benefits the community:
one that does work that improves the quality of life for people.”

* * *

## Raymond Merritt

  * REU year: 1999 (from Gallaudet University)
  * Mentor: George Truskey
  * Project summary: Imaging actin filaments in mammalian endothelial cells
    using confocal and TIRF microscopes
  * Currently: Associate professor of biology at Gallaudet University

Impact of REU experience: “Not only did Duke University's REU program offer me
a deeper understanding of true basic and applied research, but I was also
first exposed to cutting-edge high-resolution microscopes beyond the compound
light microscope seen in my undergraduate laboratories. I fell in love with
cell biology and molecular genetics. I have been studying mammalian cells and
mammalian genes since then.”

* * *

## ****

## Tyrone Porter

  * REU year: 1994 (from Prairie View A&M University, Texas)
  * Mentor: Patrick Wolf
  * Project summary: Designing, building, and testing transformers for a data
    acquisition system that Dr. Wolf was using for cardiovascular experiments
  * Currently: Associate professor of mechanical engineering at Boston
    University

Impact of REU experience: “Dr. Wolf exposed me to the diversity of BME
research, and I was hooked.”

* * *

## Celanese Bozeman

  * REU year: 2008 (from Shaw University)
  * Mentor: Dan Sorin
  * Project summary: Create a simulator (computer engineering project)
  * Currently: Working in the cyber security/IT security field with numerous
    government agencies

Impact of REU experience: “It was a great opportunity to meet other
individuals with different backgrounds, learn from their experiences, and
acquire knowledge and be challenged. The experience assisted with my
analytical thinking, confidence and, overall, my personal growth.”

* * *

## ****Rodward Hewlin, Jr.

  * REU year: 2006 (from NC A&T State University)
  * Mentor: Benjamin Yellen, assistant professor of mechanical engineering and
    materials science
  * Project title: “Characterization of Microbeads for Bio-Analytical Devices”
  * Currently: Pursuing PhD in mechanical engineering in the area of
    hemodynamics at North Carolina A&T State University

Impact of REU experience: “The experience I had in the REU program helped me
to become a better student and develop a passion for research. I learned that
a good researcher is vigilant about the results they obtain experimentally and
theoretically. “

* * *

## Patrick Conway

  * Year: 2004 and 2005 (from Gallaudet University, Washington, DC)
  * Mentor: Patrick Wolf
  * Project summary: Assisted Dr. Wolf with his neurotelemetry project
  * Currently: Working toward a PhD focused on computational protein structure
    prediction in David Baker's lab at the University of Washington

Impact of REU experience: “It was really valuable to see how the classroom
material connected to hands-on applications and to see what a career in
academic research would be like.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

