

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Robert Greenberg, MD, PhD

May 1, 2014

Co-founder, CEO and President, Second Sight Medical Products

****

**Graduation Year:** 1990

**Degree at Duke:**  
Bachelor of Science

**Major/Program:**  
Biomedical Engineering  
Electrical Engineering

**Career Highlights:**

Robert Greenberg is president and CEO of Second Sight, a company that creates
prosthetic devices that can bring sight to people with blindness. The
company’s retinal implant Argus II, also called a bionic eye, translates
visual images as electrical stimulation to the wearer’s retina, in order to
transmit that information along the optic nerve to the brain. The prosthesis
is currently in use in Europe and was approved for use in the United States by
the FDA in 2013 for patients with retinitis pigmentosa. Greenberg says
applying electrical engineering to medical questions has been his dream since
he completed his double major in electrical and biomedical engineering at
Duke.

> The surgeon put a wire into a totally blind patient’s eye and another fellow
> turned up the current on a block of electronics, and the patient said, ‘I
> see a spot of light.’ Then he put a second wire in and the patient said,
> 'OK, now I see two spots of light.’ At that moment I was hooked. I thought,
> from here this is an engineering problem; I could do this.

#### How did you come to work with electronic prostheses?

By the time I finished at Duke, I knew I wanted to work with electronics and
medicine. I went on to start an MD/PhD at Johns Hopkins, and as a first-year
medical student I met Eugene de Juan, MD,a former Duke professor—who had this
idea that he could electrically stimulate the eyes of blind patients. This
idea seemed like the perfect marriage that I was looking for. The day after I
met him he asked me to join him in the OR to see one of his experiments.
That’s a dream for a first-year student—not just to go to the OR, but to go to
the OR to see what was likely to be a historic experiment. And it was really
fantastic: He put a wire into a totally blind patient’s eye and another fellow
turned up the current on a block of electronics, and the patient said, “I see
a spot of light.” Then he put a second wire in and the patient said, “OK, now
I see two spots of light.” At that moment I was hooked. I thought from here,
this is an engineering problem; I could do this.

After my MD/PhD program I took an unusual step—I went to work for the FDA as a
medical officer, reviewing neurosurgical medical device applications. Less
than a year after I joined the FDA I met Alfred Mann, who is a biomedical
device entrepreneur in LA, and he convinced me to come to California and join
his non-profit research foundation, which funds advanced medical device
development. I met with one of his companies that makes cochlear implants, and
one of their investors asked if that technology could work for blindness. The
very next day we started Second Sight, and Al Mann asked me to run it.

#### Did your experiences at Duke help prepare you for such an unusual career
path?

My time at Duke was an excellent launch pad. One experience in particular that
I think was influential was designing the Telekey system for Duke’s
dormitories. Because I was president of the engineering student government, I
was asked to sit on a university buildings and safety committee, and we were
looking at a telephone-based system that would allow students to use a phone
to unlock the dormitory doors. I had the idea that I could design a system
that would be able to listen to the touch tone of the phones, so that we could
install a Telekey system without rewiring the building (the other expensive
alternative we were considering). Over Christmas break one year I designed it.
We ended up installing it in every dorm on campus. I began marketing it when I
was in med school and it was installed at several other universities. At that
point I realized I needed to make a choice: I needed to either stay in med
school or continue selling security systems. I decided to stay.

#### It’s a good thing you decided to stay in med school.

Definitely. But that experience at Duke was a soup-to-nuts experience—not only
doing the design work but also figuring out the administrative part of it, the
purchasing part of it, marketing it to other schools; I got a patent for it, I
was installing them myself—I was getting a pretty well-rounded early
experience.

#### You’re currently busy with worldwide commercialization of Second Sight’s
implants—in terms of ideas, what’s next for Second Sight?

We’re beginning to talk about the next-generation device that will move the
implant from the eye to the back of the brain. That would allow us to access
more patients with different kinds of blindness in addition to retinitis
pigmentosa. There’s really no treatment for these patients other than this
implant, so it’s really exciting. We got one thousand phone calls from
prospective patients when the FDA approved our implants. The idea that we
could reach all blind patients – perhaps 8 million people is intoxicating.

#### How does it feel to be able to change someone’s life so dramatically?

It’s the best. It’s what keeps us going. It’s life-changing for these
people—our patients talk about feeling more confident to walk around outside.
They feel more connected to other people, because they can see when a person
has walked away or turned away—these are social cues that most of us take for
granted. Even just the experience of seeing color, that’s been an emotional
experience for a lot of people. We’ve noticed that there’s something about the
color blue in particular that patients have an emotional reaction to,
especially if they haven’t seen it in a long time. Perhaps that is connected
to the color of the sky or water.

It’s been a lot of hard work, more than 25 years of hard work to get to this
point. But just meeting one patient whose life is transformed . . . that makes
it all more than worthwhile.

Read more: ECE alumni discuss their career paths

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

