

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Robots Lend Themselves a Hand

July 17, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

Kris Hauser is teaching humanoid robots to use their hands to stop themselves
from falling

A famous viral video about the DARPA Robotics Challenge shows all sorts of
humanoid robots clumsily falling down. Bipedal movement is rather unstable,
which is not only a problem for a robot trying to complete its task, but also
because falling can damage a very expensive piece of machinery.

Roboticists across the globe are tackling this problem in a myriad of ways.
While some look to add a series of corrective steps after a robot becomes off-
balance, much like a person stumbling after tripping, Kris Hauser wants robots
to be able to use the environment around them.

“If a person gets pushed toward a wall or a rail, they’ll be able to use that
surface to keep themselves upright with their hands. We want robots to be able
to do the same thing,” said Kris Hauser, associate professor of electrical and
computer engineering and of mechanical engineering and materials science at
Duke. “We believe that we’re the only research group working on having a robot
dynamically choose where to place its hands to prevent falling.”

While such decisions and actions are second nature to us, programming them
into a robot's reflexes is deceptively difficult. To streamline the process
and save computation time, Hauser programs the software to focus only on the
robot’s hip and shoulder joints.

As long as the robot isn’t twisting as it falls, this creates only three
angles that the stabilization algorithm has to take into account—the foot to
the hip, the hip to the shoulder, and the shoulder to the hand. The robot must
identify nearby surfaces within reach and then quickly calculate the best
combination of angles to catch itself. The final solution minimizes impact
when the robot’s hands make contact, and also minimizes the chance of its
hands or feet slipping. The algorithm takes its best guess and then
progressively optimizes it using a method called direct shooting.

In its current state, the robot has information about its environment fed to
it and can’t navigate on its own. But in the near future, Hauser plans to
upgrade to a larger robot with its own camera sensors to let it see its
surroundings.

“Hopefully by the end of the year we should be doing experiments with the
robot actually working in a live obstacle course,” Hauser said. “Then we’ll be
trying to have the robot both dynamically map what’s around it and reason
about how to protect itself from falling in arbitrary environments.”

For more details, reference the original publication: "Shihao Wang and Kris
Hauser. Realization of a Real-time Optimal Control Strategy to Stabilize a
Falling Humanoid with Hand Contact. IEEE Intl Conf. on Robotics and Automation
(ICRA), 2018."

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

