

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Rohan Achar: Improving Diagnostic Tools

January 19, 2017

Grand Challenge Scholar Profile

  * Major: Biomedical Engineering and Computer Science
  * Project: Improving One-Step Protein Microarrays for Immunodiagnostic
    Applications - The D4 Assay
  * Advisor: Ashutosh Chilkoti

**How did you become interested in engineering?**

I had a pretty good inclination that I wanted to go into biomedical
engineering early on. In high school, I became interested in biology after
taking AP Bio, and I really liked math and physics, so I tried to find the
subject that had the best intersection of all of them. BME was perfect for
that so that’s where I ended up. I was thinking of doing a double major with
BME and math, but I ended up pursuing BME and computer science because I had
enjoyed doing a bit of programming in high school as well.

**What is your research project for the Pratt Fellows Program?**

I was working on a component of the D4 Assay, which the Chilkoti has designed
for diagnostic applications. The platform can be used to effectively test for
antigens in blood or serum at very low levels. The assay is conducted on a
polymer coating that doesn’t allow unwanted proteins to bind to it, and my
project was to develop and characterize a new polymer that had more
controllable properties. This way, we could tune the parameters of the assay a
bit more, making it more precise and easier to use.

**How do you think Duke Engineering has prepared you going forward?**

Engineering at Duke is very collaborative, and you might not be able to get
that atmosphere at other institutions. The big thing about medicine or
engineering is that you are working with different kinds of people every day
with different academic backgrounds and interests. Even though the Chilkoti
lab is in the BME department, I was able collaborate with and learn from
members of an ECE lab on aspects of the D4 assay, discussed antibody
engineering with a doctor in the medical center, and got to collaborate with
people on all academic levels from professors and grad students to fellow
undergrads and high school students—really a diverse array of people. I feel
like that was an invaluable asset for me going forward, because I was able to
learn something unique from all of them. It was cool to learn in such a
collaborative atmosphere, working with people who are experts in their
respective fields and then integrating everything into a single project.

**Would you recommend the Pratt Fellows program to younger students?**

I definitely would. A lot of research that undergrads get to pursue is on the
short term, and when you have such a short experience you might not get to see
a project go to completion. With the Pratt Fellows program, you have three
semesters and a summer, so you get to see a project from the start to the
finish. This gives you an opportunity to really learn how to do research well,
and I feel like learning that methodology is really important.

**What was one of your favorite experiences of your Duke career?**

Spending last summer here for the Pratt Fellows program was a highlight of my
time at Duke. Some of my friends were staying in Durham over the summer too,
and we ended up living together off campus. Getting a feel for the 9 to 5
workstyle in lab and getting to spend so much time with my friends was
definitely one of the best experiences I’ve had at Duke.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

