

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke Engineering Alumni Profile: Sanyin Siang

January 6, 2015

Executive Director, Coach K Center on Leadership & Ethics

**Graduation Year:** 1996

**Degrees at Duke:**

  * Bachelor of Science
  * Master's

**Major/Program** :

  * Biomedical Engineering

**Career Highlights:**

  * Executive Director, Fuqua/Coach K Center on Leadership & Ethics
  * Program Associate, American Association for the Advancement of Science
  * Leadership Contributor, Forbes, Huffington Post, Wall Street Journal

> That’s a connective thread through everything I do— it’s bringing together
> diverse groups and perspectives to solve problems. It’s a bit of the
> engineer in me, because engineers can’t do their work alone—they have to
> draw on multiple perspectives in a team.

**Tell me about the Coach K Center on Leadership and Ethics.**

The Center’s mission is to redefine leadership and develop leaders for
emerging global challenges. We’re all about empowering leaders of consequence,
which includes students as they are growing in their leadership journey as
well as those who are in positions of influence—CEOs and leaders in
government, military and the social sector. When we get these types of leaders
together, we find that they create a tremendous energy and generate a number
of interesting insights that can help make significant impact if shared more
broadly across disparate fields and disciplines. We live in a world where the
problems are so complex that no single person, industry nor sector alone can
solve them. Collaborative leadership is the key.

That’s quite the career jump from being an undergraduate in biomedical
engineering. How did you get into leadership and ethics?

I was pre-med as an undergraduate student at Duke because I love helping
people, but during my senior year, I decided that I was not a good fit for
medicine. I worked in a xenotransplantation lab after graduation because I
love the science, but I didn’t feel like that was a good fit either because I
love engaging with people and drawing and connecting ideas from diverse
groups.

Then, during a medical mission trip to Honduras that same year, I started
exploring the connection between medicine, ethics and societal good and
reflecting on a bioethics course I had taken during my senior year at Duke. I
moved to Washington, DC, where I landed a job with the American Association
for the Advancement of Science to look at the ethical, legal and societal
implications of scientific advances—like Dolly before cloning became a
reality. And to do that, you have to connect people from across different
fields like media, policymakers, scientists, lawyers and religious leaders.

**And from there, you found your way back to Duke?**

First I almost went to law school at Georgetown University. But a chance
encounter with a stranger convinced me that I should be looking into business
school instead. He said lawyers try to find all the reasons why something is
risky and shouldn’t be done, and I wanted to make things happen.

So instead, I enrolled in the Cross Continent MBA program at Duke. What
attracted me to the program were the international exposure—I had 100
classmates representing 27 different countries, and the opportunity to learn
how to lead and build trust in teams with minimal face-to-face interactions. I
felt that was the path of the new workplace and in the program we had one week
of face-to-face instruction and getting to know our team members, and seven
weeks of virtual engagement, while being scattered all around the world.

_That’s a connective thread through everything I do— it’s bringing together
diverse groups and perspectives to solve problems. It’s a bit of the engineer
in me, because engineers can’t do their work alone—they have to draw on
multiple perspectives in a team._

After graduation, I helped run Fuqua’s Center for Customer Relationship
Management Research, which was a relatively new marketing field, for a year
before being asked to help start the Coach K Center.

**How has your BME degree from Duke helped you build the Coach K Center into
what it is today?**

When I was at Pratt, biomedical engineering was a relatively new field, and I
loved the interdisciplinary aspects of it because I find the most innovative
things happen at the interstitial spaces. I learned how to bring different
approaches to a problem and got to hone that skill. I also learned how to
analyze a problem and the value of leadership and teamwork.

Engineering isn’t just abstract, you’re actually applying your knowledge base,
and that’s what I love about it. I love building stuff—I’m an entrepreneur at
heart. But even in business, you’re not just creating things in silos, you
have to actually scaffold out and understand what else is happening in the
space. You’re connecting and putting puzzle pieces together with other teams,
so it’s not just you—it’s integrating with other people, whether they are
other developers or end users.

**Another major aspect of engineering is designing through failure and
learning from mistakes. Can you tell me about one of your biggest failures and
how you learned from it?**

When we’re young, we tend to look at titles as attributes of success. When I
was with the AAAS, I fueled my love for connecting ideas and writing, and
joined the National Association of Science Writers. NASW had a mentoring
program that I participated in. I was 24 and was hoping that I’d get the
science editor of the New York Times or the Wall Street Journal, so I was
disappointed when I got one of the top members of the science news
communications team at the University of Wisconsin-Madison.

Without realizing how great their communications office is nor understanding
how that mentor can help, I called the mentor program coordinator to see if I
could change my assignment. Without understanding the landscape, I had failed
to learn and understand the value that a potential mentor can bring.
Fortunately, NASW pushed back, telling me that my mentor is one of the most
seasoned and effective mentors in their organization and how incredibly lucky
I was to have been assigned to him Because of his mentorship, not only was I
able to navigate that world, get in a variety of publications, including being
a contributing editor for IEEE Spectrum, but I also learned how to be a mentor
and add value to others.

The lesson is that we tend to look at titles, but those don’t really tell you
much about the person behind them. When it comes to being a mentee, you have
to understand what you need to grow, be open to possibilities and learning
from different people, and then understand what a mentor has to offer as well
as how you can add value to the relationship. It’s relational rather than
transactional.

How to be an effective mentor and mentee and connecting that with building a
strong culture in an organization is something I coach on and will write about
quite a bit.

**That’s a great tidbit of advice. How might engineering students and alumni
get more?**

I have published thought pieces and advice on leadership, building culture and
mentoring in the Wall Street Journal, and am a Forbes contributor. One of the
best ways for students and young alumns to join me in conversations like this
is through a Huffington Post series I just launched called
#ExceptionalCareers. It’s a series of articles that takes anecdotes and advice
from some of the world’s greatest leaders and tries to redefine what a
successful career looks like. And an exceptional career is not solely defined
by the title or salary, but by a larger set of factors that lead to career
satisfaction. It is one marked by service, growth, purpose and meaning. I hope
you’ll join in the discussion!

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

