

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke’s Guillermo Sapiro Elected a Member of the National Academy of
Engineering

February 11, 2022 | Ken Kingery

The professor of electrical and computer engineering was recognized for three
decades of transformative contributions to the theory and practice of imaging

Guillermo Sapiro, the James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Electrical and
Computer Engineering at Duke University, has been named a member of the
National Academy of Engineering (NAE)—among the highest professional
distinctions for an engineer.

Sapiro was cited “for contributions to the theory and practice of imaging,”
which have had significant effects on fields as diverse as image recognition
and stock market prediction.

“Guillermo has long been working at the forefront of the imaging and machine
learning fields—a true pioneer sparking innovation in both fields, leading to
their intertwining over time,” said Jerome P. Lynch, the Vinik Dean of the
Pratt School of Engineering at Duke. “Many of the projects he has developed,
such as his ongoing work to create an app to help detect signs of autism in
early childhood, are inspiring examples of the positive impact engineering has
on real people. Duke is extremely proud of Guillermo because his nomination to
the NAE celebrates the importance of engineering innovation in bettering the
human condition, a core mission of our school and university.”

> “I am honored and humbled by being in the NAE with some of my heroes, and I
> am looking forward to making them proud.”
>
> **Guillermo Sapiro** | James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Electrical
> And Computer Engineering

He is part of the 2022 class of 111 new NAE members and 22 international
members announced by the academy. Sapiro’s election increases the number of
faculty members at Duke Engineering to hold the distinction to 10.

“This is a recognition not to me but my mentors, students and collaborators,”
Sapiro said. “I am honored and humbled by being in the NAE with some of my
heroes, and I am looking forward to making them proud.”

His transformative research has focused on developing and applying new
computer science and engineering tools to improve a wide range of imaging
applications.

In 2009, Sapiro published a paper that was the first to propose a general-
purpose, highly effective “dictionary learning” algorithm efficient enough to
train itself on truly massive data sources without getting bogged down. This
innovation led to a wide range of machine learning algorithms and set the
stage for developing more complex machine learning concepts, such as deep
learning.

The International Conference on Machine Learning recognized the paper’s
importance with a “Test of Time” award in 2019. Sapiro had previously received
a similar “Test of Time” award from the International Conference on Computer
Vision, giving him the rare honor of having received the distinction in two
fields.

His work has since progressed in the realms of general computer imaging theory
and practical applications of its use, which have resulted in high-impact
industry collaborations.

As one example, he designed algorithms capable of sharpening video blurred by
a shaky camera. That work found its way into Adobe’s After Effects video
editing software, used to create Hollywood movies.

He also led work in collaboration with Volvo Cars to adapt short-range LiDAR
(light detection and ranging) imaging algorithms to work for long-range
detection schemes. These are much more difficult to achieve with the
technology. Notably, his algorithms were used as part of a mission to Mars.

Another notable collaboration evolved with colleagues at the Duke University
School of Medicine—a mobile application to screen for autism in young
children. The project, which has been under development for nearly a decade,
has led to new insights about autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and has the
potential to transform how child development is screened and monitored.

> With Guillermo Sapiro’s election, the number of Duke Engineering faculty
> members of the National Academy of Engineering increased to 10.
>
> Meet Duke's NAE Members »

“A distinctive theme of faculty research at Duke ECE is that it is actively
and energetically interdisciplinary—of which Guillermo’s research
collaborations within our department, across Duke, and with innovators around
the world are shining examples,” said Krishnendu Chakrabarty, chair of Duke
ECE and the John Cocke Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering. “This
is a great day for our colleague Guillermo and for the entire Duke ECE
community of faculty, staff, students, alumni and friends.”

Sapiro’s other honors include election to the American Academy of Arts and
Sciences in 2018.

He is also a fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
(IEEE) and the Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (SIAM). Sapiro
was the founding editor-in-chief of the SIAM _Journal on Imaging Sciences_.
Sapiro is also affiliated with Apple in its AI/machine learning organization.

As a member of NAE, Sapiro will help the academy carry out its mission to
provide engineering leadership in service to the nation. With 2,500 peer-
elected members and international members, the academy serves as an advisor to
the United States government and conducts independent studies examining
important engineering and technology topics.

Other Pratt School of Engineering faculty members of the NAE are:

  * Ana Barros (CEE, emeritus)
  * Robert Calderbank (ECE/CS)
  * Ingrid Daubechies (Math/ECE)
  * Earl Dowell (MEMS)
  * Kenneth Hall (MEMS)
  * Henry Petroski (CEE, emeritus)
  * Vahid Tarokh (ECE)
  * Mark Wiesner (CEE)
  * Blake Wilson (BME/ECE)

Go to Duke ECE

## Related News

June 12, 2019

### Building Dictionaries for Machine Learning from Sparse Data

March 03, 2017

### An App for Autism Screening

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

