

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Saterbak Launches New Journal Focused on Education in Biomedical Engineering

September 28, 2020 | Michaela Kane

Saterbak will serve as editor-in-chief of the new publication Biomedical
Engineering Education

Ann Saterbak, a professor of the practice in the Department of Biomedical
Engineering at Duke University, and a team of collaborators recently launched
_Biomedical Engineering Education,_ a new journal from the Biomedical
Engineering Society (BMES) that will document and share papers involving
research, teaching tips and other advances that are helpful for biomedical
engineering educators. The inaugural issue was released online in August, with
a focus on advice for teaching during the coronavirus pandemic.

Saterbak will serve as editor-in-chief of the journal, and Brian Helmke,
associate professor of biomedical engineering and director of undergraduate
research at the University of Virginia, and Aileen Huang-Saad, associate
professor of biomedical engineering at the University of Michigan, will serve
as deputy editors-in-chief.

“There are journals for chemical engineering education and electrical
engineering education, but there wasn’t anything out there for BME, and to me
it was an obvious gap,” says Saterbak, the director of the Duke Engineering
First-Year Experience. “BME is a constantly evolving field, and when educators
have work out about new teaching methods, there really isn’t any place for
them to publish. I’d developed the idea of creating a BME education-focused
journal about five years ago, but things didn’t get moving until 2017.”

Saterbak pitched the idea to her Duke BME colleague George Truskey, who was
the BMES Publications Board chair. After finding wide enthusiasm for the idea,
the team finalized an agreement with BMES and Springer to create _Biomedical
Engineering Education,_ with plans to officially launch in 2021.

“This journal which Ann and her colleagues developed meets an important need
in the field,” says Truskey. “We hope that this journal will facilitate the
transmission of novel educational practices and aid in the evolution of
biomedical engineering education.”

But those plans changed with the emergence of a global public health threat.

“When the coronavirus pandemic began, educators were forced to make radical
changes to their courses and transition from in-person to online or hybrid
courses, and these changes extended from spring into the fall,” says Saterbak.
“We recognized that this was a unique circumstance where our journal could be
really helpful for educators as they look for tips or models to make these
changes. A leader in AIMBE asked if we could expedite our publication date and
release a special issue that was exclusively focused on teaching during the
COVID-19 pandemic, and we jumped at the opportunity.”

Saterbak and her team received more than 80 papers in the four weeks after
putting out a call for submissions. Working with an international team of 70
faculty with a focus in engineering education to review the articles, Saterbak
and her editorial board ultimately selected 30 papers for their first issue,
which had a ‘soft launch’ online in August.

“All of the articles in this first issue are what we call Teaching Tips. These
articles are laser-focused on a specific educational tip, like a new method
for reviewing prototypes online or alternative lab set-ups,” says Saterbak.
“The goal was to quickly identify successful strategies that faculty could
integrate into their own courses to improve the learning and teaching
experience for both students and educators during an unprecedented challenge.”

The team plans to publish a range of paper types in _Biomedical Engineering
Education_ in addition to these Teaching Tips, including Research, Innovation,
Perspectives and Review articles. These papers will address topics ranging
from curriculum design, engineering education research, and novel course
content to laboratory experiments and demonstrations, program highlights, and
program outreach ideas for younger students.

According to Saterbak, the team will officially launch the print issue of
_Biomedical Engineering Education_ in January 2021. Until then, they are
continuing to accept and review any and all papers about biomedical
engineering education.

“It was clear that the biomedical engineering community was ready for
something like _Biomedical Engineering Education,”_ says Saterbak. “BME
education has always been a rich topic to explore because there are so many
fields within BME, whether it’s neuroengineering or medical device design. I’m
hopeful that the launch of this journal will help highlight the variety within
this field and continue to elevate the importance of graduate and
undergraduate education in BME.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

