

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Scovazzi Wins Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers

January 10, 2017

The highest honor bestowed by the United States government on science and
engineering professionals in the early stages of their independent research
careers.

Guglielmo Scovazzi, associate professor of civil and environmental engineering
(CEE) and mechanical engineering and materials science (MEMS) at Duke
University, has been named a recipient of the Presidential Early Career Awards
for Scientists and Engineers (PECASE). The recognition is highest honor
bestowed by the United States government on science and engineering
professionals in the early stages of their independent research careers.

“It is a great honor for me, I am ecstatic,” said Scovazzi. “I would like to
deeply thank the support provided by my department and the Pratt School of
Engineering and the wonderful environment its leaders have created and
continue to promote and treasure together with my fellow colleagues. It is an
intellectually rich, risk-taking and enthusiastic environment, and forms a
fantastic foundation for all of us.

“I would also like to thank the US institutions and the respective program
managers that sponsored my research work, and allowed me to pursue my career
research goals with great encouragement,” continued Scovazzi. “The US
Department of Energy, which also nominated me for the award, the US Office of
Naval Research, the US Army Research Office, Sandia National Laboratories,
DARPA and ExxonMobil Upstream Research Company. I am deeply indebted to all of
them for their continuous support.”

“We are very proud of Guglielmo and his achievements,” said Ravi Bellamkonda,
Vinik Dean of the Pratt School of Engineering. “The PECASE award is a high
honor that speaks to the quality of his scholarship and the quality of the
wonderful faculty we are fortunate to have at Duke Engineering. At times like
this, we should also recognize Professor Scovazzi’s mentors at Duke who
contributed to his success.”

Scovazzi’s research is in the broad field of computational mechanics and, in
particular, is aimed at the development of robust and accurate numerical
methods for solid and fluid dynamics, fluid/structure interaction, flows in
porous media and geomechanics. The applications of Scovazzi’s research involve
simulations in very complex geometry on advanced parallel computing
architectures and find applications in the fields of aerospace, mechanical,
biomedical and petroleum engineering.

The Presidential Early Career Awards highlight the key role that the White
House Administration places in encouraging and accelerating American
innovation to grow our economy and tackle our greatest challenges. The awards,
established by President Clinton in 1996, select researchers for their pursuit
of innovative research at the frontiers of science and technology and their
commitment to community service as demonstrated through scientific leadership,
public education or community outreach.

“I congratulate these outstanding scientists and engineers on their impactful
work,” President Obama said in a press release. “These innovators are working
to help keep the United States on the cutting edge, showing that Federal
investments in science lead to advancements that expand our knowledge of the
world around us and contribute to our economy.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

