

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Segura Named Co-Director of the Duke Center for Biomolecular and Tissue
Engineering

February 13, 2023 | Michaela Kane

The biomedical engineer specializes in using biomaterials to help the body
heal damaged tissue, will lead the center with Charles Gersbach

Tatiana Segura has been appointed the co-director of Duke’s Center for
Biomolecular and Tissue Engineering (CBTE). A renowned expert in the field of
biomaterials, Segura’s focus at Duke involves using hydrogels and other soft
materials to jump-start the body’s innate healing abilities.

This work aligns well with the mission of CBTE, which is centered on pursuing
research and educational activities that link three broad areas of
biotechnology, specifically protein engineering, cellular engineering and
tissue engineering. Segura will lead the center with Charles Gersbach, the
John W. Strohbehn Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for the
first two years of her appointment. After this transition period, Segura will
take over as the sole director.

> "With the recent renewal of funding for our Center for another five years, I
> am delighted for Dr. Segura to join as co-director.”
>
> **Charles Gersbach** | John W. Strohbehn Distinguished Professor of
> Biomedical Engineering

"It has been a privilege and highlight of my career to be involved in the
leadership of the Duke Center for Biomolecular and Tissue Engineering, and to
help facilitate the preparation of our PhD students for success as leaders in
the biotechnology industry. With the recent renewal of funding for our Center
for another five years, I am delighted for Dr. Tatiana Segura to join as co-
director of the center,” said Gersbach. “Dr. Segura’s world-renowned
accomplishments in biomaterials and drug delivery research are rivaled only by
her reputation as an outstanding and engaging mentor and trainee advocate. I
am excited to work with her to continue to evolve and improve upon our
preparation of students for the biotechnology industry, and I am eager to see
how her own personal touches extend and enhance the program.”

Segura earned a PhD in chemical engineering from Northwestern University in
2004, where she focused on designing and understanding non-viral gene delivery
from hydrogel scaffolds under the supervision of Lonnie Shea. She later
pursued post-doctoral training with Jeffrey Hubbell at the Swiss Federal
Institute of Technology, where she studied the use of materials for minimally
invasive tissue repair. Before joining Duke in 2018, Segura spent 12 years at
UCLA. At Duke, she holds joint appointments in biomedical engineering,
dermatology and neurology. She was also named a Duke MEDx Investigator in
recognition of her work spanning engineering and medicine.

In her lab at Duke, Segura and her lab are pioneering new ways to develop
biomaterials that can harness the body’s own ability to heal to push for
improved outcomes, a process called endogenous repair and regeneration. These
artificial materials can help create physical structures and send out
biological cues that encourage surrounding cells to grow. Because the
materials used by the Segura lab are made from natural substances, it can be
broken down and removed by the body as the tissue around it heals. Segura co-
founded Tempo Therapeutics to help commercialize these biomaterials, with the
goal of using them to treat complex wounds and augment tissue growth.

One of the applications of this work is in the brain, where these new
materials could support the growth of new blood vessels in damaged areas of
the brain, potentially limiting issues caused by strokes and other damaging
events. They are also developing materials that can be applied to the skin,
with the goal of promoting new hair follicle and sebaceous gland growth, which
could help minimize scarring and aide wound repair.

As co-director of CBTE, Segura will help introduce new programming for both
scientific training and soft skills to better prepare trainees to be leaders
in biotech fields. In addition to continuing the center’s strong seminar
series and chalk talks from industry leaders, Segura will also focus on
strengthen the center’s community and inclusion efforts both internally and
across the university.

“The NIH biotechnology training grant program is very special to me. I was
part of a similar training grant as a graduate student two decades ago and it
is incredible to be now in the position to leading a similar program,” said
Segura. “This grant provided me the community and training that was invaluable
to my career, and I hope to be able to provide our new trainees with the
skills and training needed for today’s biotech careers.”

Tissue Engineering at Duke

## Related News

March 04, 2022 | Duke Science & Technology

### Tatiana Segura: A Stroke Healing Gel

March 06, 2020

### Segura Receives Three NIH R01 Grants to Engineer Materials for Brain and
Skin Repair

August 22, 2017

### Tatiana Segura: Promoting Healing and Healthy Tissue

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

