

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Self-Assembling Nanofibers Could Improve Nasal-Based Vaccine Delivery

August 12, 2020

The new platform provides potential for more effective vaccines with fewer
side effects

This story was originally appeared on the University of Chicago Medicine
website.

The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic is shining a bright spotlight on vaccine
development. As numerous vaccines race through clinical trials, physicians and
researchers continue to work on developing new vaccine technologies to
generate the most effective vaccines with the fewest side effects.

A new proof-of-concept study by researchers at the University of Chicago and
Duke University demonstrates the potential for one such platform, using self-
assembling peptide nanofibers tagged with antigens to prime the immune system
against a potential invasion.

Their research, published in _Science Advances_ on August 7, 2020, showed that
these nanofibers can induce an immune response and activate T cells without
the use of additional adjuvants, which can induce inflammation and are
associated with common vaccine side effects, like soreness at the injection
site or low-grade fever.

“We wanted to understand how the body processed this nanofiber system, from
its first interaction with the immune system to the point where it led to a
complete immune response,” said co-senior author Anita Chong, PhD, a professor
of surgery at the University of Chicago Medicine. “In order to visualize the
uptake of the nanofibers, we decided to try the intranasal route, because it
would give us access to dendritic cells in the lungs and let us track their
movement into the draining lymph nodes.”

Lining the surfaces of the lungs and intestines, dendritic cells act as a
first point of contact for the innate immune system. These cells bind to and
gobble up the antigens found on the surface of invading pathogens, then turn
around and present the antigens on their own cell surface to other immune
system cells, including T and B cells. This allows the T cells to initiate an
immune response and prepare to defend the body against the invading bacteria,
fungus or virus.

In the study, the researchers leveraged their nanofiber platform to test a
specific kind of vaccine, called a subunit vaccine, which only uses a specific
protein intended to act as the main antigen to stimulate an immune response.
This is in contrast to other kinds of vaccines, such as live-attenuated
vaccines or inactivated vaccines, which challenge the immune system by
introducing the whole virus, in a less virulent or inactive form.

Each type of vaccine has its advantages and disadvantages; live-attenuated
vaccines can offer the most protection, but because they contain the actual
pathogen, they frequently can’t be used for patients with weakened immune
systems.

“The major advantage of subunit vaccines is safety since they don’t involve
the replication of live pathogens,” said first author Youhui Si, PhD, a
research scientist at UChicago. “On the other hand, to increase their
effectiveness, subunit vaccines require adjuvants and repeated doses to induce
long lasting immunity against a disease.”

Adjuvants have the big downside of provoking inflammation. “This makes it
difficult to find the balance between getting a strong enough immune response
and making the vaccine as safe and side effect-free as possible,” said co-
senior author Joel Collier, PhD, an associate professor of biomedical
engineering at Duke University.

“The fiber we’ve developed is unique in that it doesn’t require that
inflammation,” he continued. “The scaffolding itself seems to be able to
activate the dendritic cells to kick off the immune response. But before now,
we didn’t have any real understanding of which pathways were involved in this
process, so this study provides some insight into what’s going on.”

The researchers say that not requiring adjuvants has a lot of advantages.
“Aside from the inflammation issues, adjuvants require vaccines to be kept in
cold storage,” Chong said. “Without them, the peptides are quite heat stable,
and can be delivered as a dry powder to be reconstituted into nanofibers on
site, making it easier to get vaccines into resource-limited areas.”

The researchers believe that the primary strength of their nanofiber
scaffolding is that it provides a physical structure that presents the
antigens to the dendritic cells, making it easier for the innate immune system
to recognize the antigens and begin a response.

“I think there has not been enough attention toward understanding the physical
scaffolding surrounding antigens, and the information that scaffolding
provides to the immune system,” said Chong. “This system will let us start
picking apart the signals that are delivered by a physical structure; are they
complimentary to, or distinct from, the soluble chemical adjuvants?”

While the study was intended primarily to uncover the mechanism by which the
nanofibers can induce an immune response, the results also demonstrate that
this platform has great potential for generating safe, effective intranasal
vaccines.

“We saw that the peptide fibers alone generated a strong immune response via
the intranasal route,” Collier said. “This route is great for vaccine
compliance, because it doesn’t involve a needle. Some people have a hard time
with needles – including myself! They can induce a vasovagal response, causing
people to lose consciousness, and it’s difficult to control. Eliminating
needles from a vaccine platform could help with this issue and may mean that
more people will seek out the vaccine.”

This platform would also allow physicians and scientists to more precisely
dial in the immune response to provide the best protection against a disease.
They provided the example of SARS-CoV-2, the novel coronavirus that causes
COVID-19, as an example where being able to fine-tune the immune response and
delivering the vaccine directly to the most affected tissues could be
beneficial.

“We don’t know yet which antigens will be most maximally protective against
COVID-19,” said Collier. “This would let us very precisely target and produce
antibodies and T cells that will provide the most protection.”

The researchers said that the intranasal platform and the similar sublingual
platform, which involves spraying the vaccine under the tongue, have a lot of
potential. “Not only are these routes needle-free, making it easier and more
comfortable for people to access, but they can also elicit an immune response
in the lungs or mucosal tissues directly,” Chong said. “Many infections occur
through the oral and respiratory routes, including COVID-19, so being able to
trigger that immune response in the right area of the body is very helpful,
and could make a vaccine more protective.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

