

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Sound Waves Could Provide 'Liquid Biopsies'

July 3, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

Acoustic microfluidic platform gently and quickly separates circulating tumor
cells from blood samples

Using sound waves, researchers have developed a gentle, contact-free method
for separating circulating tumor cells from blood samples that is fast and
efficient enough for clinical use.

Circulating tumor cells (CTCs) are small pieces of a tumor that break away and
flow through the bloodstream. They contain a wealth of information about the
tumor, such as its type, physical characteristics and genetic mutations that
are associated with prognosis and whether certain treatments may be effective.
The ability to quickly and efficiently harvest and grow these cells from a
blood sample would enable “liquid biopsies” capable of providing robust
diagnosis, prognosis and suggestions for treatment strategies based on
individual CTC profiling.

CTCs are, however, extremely rare and difficult to catch. There are typically
only a handful for every few billion blood cells running through a patient’s
veins. And while there are many technologies designed to separate them from
normal blood cells, none of them are perfect. They tend to damage or kill the
CTCs in the process, lack efficiency, only work on specific types of cancer,
or take far too long to be used in many situations.

In a new study, researchers from Duke University, MIT and Nanyang
Technological University (Singapore) demonstrate a platform based on sound
waves capable of separating CTCs from a 7.5-mL vial of blood with at least 86
percent efficiency in less than an hour. With additional improvements, the
researchers hope the technology will form the basis of a new test through an
inexpensive, disposable chip.

The results were published on July 3 in the journal Small.

Every year cancer claims the lives of millions of people around the world and
researchers are still searching for better tools for cancer diagnosis,
prognosis and treatment,” said Tony Jun Huang, the William Bevan Professor of
Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science at Duke University. “Biopsy is
the gold standard technique for cancer diagnosis, but it is painful and
invasive and is often not administered until late in the cancer’s development.
With our circulating tumor cell separation technology, we could potentially
help find out, in a non-invasive manner, whether the patient has cancer, where
the cancer is located, what stage it’s in, and what drugs would work best. All
from a small sample of blood drawn from the patient.”

The technology works by setting up a standing sound wave at an angle to a
fluid flowing through a tiny channel. Because sound is nothing more than a
pressure wave, this sets up pockets of pressure that push on particles
suspended in the liquid as they pass through. This acoustic force acts more
strongly on the larger, more rigid cancer cells than on normal blood cells,
pushing the CTCs into a separate channel for collection.

The power intensity and frequency of the sound waves are similar to those used
in ultrasonic imaging, which is used safely in numerous medical procedures.
The risk of damage to the CTCs is reduced even further because each cell
experiences the acoustic wave for only a fraction of a second and does not
require labeling or surface modification. These features give the technique
the best possible chance at maintaining the functions and native states of the
CTCs.

The approach was first demonstrated three years ago in a proof-of-concept
study and has since been improved to the point where it could be useful in a
clinical setting. The first modification was to make one side of the channel
out of glass, causing the acoustic wave to reflect off of it and strengthen
the pressure waves inside the channel. The second was to introduce a divider
arm along the center of the channel. This slows down the fluid and CTCs
travelling next to the arm, which allows for an overall faster flow to make
quicker work of a sample.

The result is a prototype device that processes fluid at a rate of 7.5
mL/hour, seven times faster than the original, without sacrificing any of its
86 percent efficiency or numerous advantages over other methods.

“The biggest asset of this acoustic method of separation is that it’s very
gentle on the circulating tumor cells,” said Andrew Armstrong, associate
professor of medicine, surgery, and pharmacology and cancer biology at the
Duke University School of Medicine. “The cancer cells remain viable after
passing through the chip and can be characterized, cultured or profiled, which
allows us to do genotyping or phenotyping to better understand how to kill
them. The idea is to develop personalized medicine approaches to individual
patients based on their cancer biology, similar to what infectious disease
doctors do with bacterial cultures and antibiotics.”

Armstrong has already demonstrated how these abilities could be useful in a
clinical setting. In the paper, he uses the technology to collect circulating
tumor cells from men with prostate cancer and successfully profiles them for a
range of markers and short-term growth characteristics. The researchers
demonstrate that CTCs from patients vary widely in their expression of key
targets for therapy, such as prostate specific membrane antigen (PSMA), which
is commonly used for imaging and for targeting prostate cancer in the clinic.

Moving forward, Huang is continuing to develop the technology to increase both
its speed and efficiency, while Armstrong is working to establish the
technique’s feasibility in a number of culturing and profiling projects to
show its potential for clinical impact. The pair will also use the technology
in a variety of research projects, such as working to understand what allows
CTCs to survive in the bloodstream and metastasize.

“The only FDA-approved technology for CTC detection can only count and do
basic characterizations of CTCs but cannot grow CTCs outside of the body,
because it basically kills the cells in the process,” said Armstrong. “Being
able to get to these cells while they’re still alive gives us at least a
chance at culturing them or profiling them outside of the body to do the types
of drug sensitivity and genetic testing that may better inform therapy.”

This research was supported by the National Institutes of Health (R01
GM112048, R33 EB019785) and the National Science Foundation (CBET-1438126,
IDBR-1455658).

“Circulating Tumor Cell Phenotyping via High-Throughput Acoustic Separation.”
Mengxi Wu, Po-Hsun Huang, Rui Zhang, Zhangming Mao, Chuyi Chen, Gabor Kemeny,
Peng Li, Adrian V. Lee, Rekha Gyanchandani, Andrew J. Armstrong, Ming Dao,
Subra Suresh, and Tony Jun Huang. Small, 2018. DOI: 10.1002/smll.201801131

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

