

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Setting Robots in Motion, Quickly and Efficiently

August 15, 2016

Our ability to find a solution to motion planning will be critical to creating
a new generation of robots

_Originally published inThe Conversation_

_By Daniel Sorin, Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Duke
University, and George Konidaris, Assistant Professor of Computer Science and
Electrical and Computer Engineering, Duke University_

How can a drone get from one place to another in a forest, without colliding
with any trees? How can a robot pick up a bolt and insert it into a casing,
without smashing into any of the other moving objects in a crowded factory?
Our ability to find a solution to this problem – which is called motion
planning – will be critical to creating a new generation of robots that,
unlike the industrial robots of today, can act in a world that has not been
meticulously pre-prepared for them.

At first glance, motion planning seems easy. You do it all the time without
even noticing! You don't have to consciously think about how to maneuver your
arm to fetch the can of soda from the back of the fridge without knocking
anything over; you just do it. And while very young babies flail around, they
are experts at motion planning by the time they are toddlers. Unfortunately,
motion planning is an excellent example of a problem that is easy for humans
to solve, but has proven to be computationally very hard. In most cases,
state-of-the-art motion planners for machines can take as long as several
seconds to plan a movement.

The core challenge is collision detection: As the robot generates possible
paths, it must check whether or not it would collide with objects in the
world. Modern motion planners generate thousands or even millions of short
motions that together form a complete movement and test them for collision one
at a time. The process accounts for approximately 99 percent of the
computational cost of motion planning.

The human brain, however, rarely does things one by one. Rather, it can
perform massively parallel processing – that is, it can use its vast number of
neurons to do many, many things simultaneously (in parallel) – to solve hard
computational problems. Our approach in the lab has been to exploit the same
type of parallelism by building a customized processor with a vast number of
circuits, rather than neurons, that can operate in parallel. The processor's
circuits perform massively parallel collision detection.

## Finding the right route

Our approach is based on a common motion planning method, called a roadmap.
Robotic motion planning with a roadmap is analogous to planning a road trip
using a geographic map in which sites are connected via streets. In such a
road trip, you seek to find a path from your starting point to your
destination site by choosing the shortest sequence of streets (which, taken
together, comprise a path), none of which is currently closed for
construction.

In a robot’s roadmap, each site is a pose of the robot (say, an arm position)
and each street that connects two sites is a motion between those two poses.
Motion planning involves finding a path from the starting pose to the goal
pose that doesn’t collide with obstacles that might be nearby.

Typical motion planning algorithms build roadmaps with tens to hundreds of
thousands of possible robotic poses and motions. Larger roadmaps are better,
but they require more computation because each motion must be checked for
collision with the environment, one at a time.

General-purpose computer processors, such as the ones in your laptop or
smartphone, achieve remarkable performance on a wide range of tasks, but are
not good enough for motion planning. These processors consist of circuits that
do the calculations that software programs instruct. They can execute
instructions quickly, but only a few at a time. This limitation is sensible
and economical because typical software doesn’t have many instructions that
can be done without waiting for previous instructions to finish. (This is just
like in the real world, where you can’t start drying your laundry until after
it has finished in the washing machine.)

Unlike typical software, the work performed for motion planning has lots of
opportunities to make calculations independently of each other. In collision
detection, every motion in the roadmap can be checked against every obstacle
simultaneously, in parallel.

Our processor has a dedicated circuit for every motion in the roadmap, and all
of these circuits operate in parallel. In the same way that the brain uses
parallel computation, so does our processor with the calculations needed for
collision checking. Each motion has its own circuit for calculation,
dramatically reducing the time required to check possible paths. It's true
that having a larger roadmap with more motions requires more total circuitry,
but by trading off silicon for time, we are able to render a very hard
computational problem easy.

## New efficiency, new opportunities

For a roadmap with thousands of motions, prior techniques took multiple
seconds and tens of Watts on typical processors. Even high-performance
graphics processors took around a second and required hundreds of Watts. Our
processor performs motion planning in less than 100 microseconds and using
less than 10 Watts of power.

Our performance is so much faster and more power-efficient than prior
techniques that it opens up many new opportunities for robots and autonomous
vehicles. For example, a robot in your home could one day be able to make you
breakfast, even if the milk isn't always in exactly the same place, and even
if it is in a refrigerator the robot's designers have never seen before. And
autonomous cars could avoid suddenly appearing obstacles – like a box falling
off the back of a truck – while taking into consideration all the possible
future movements of the other cars on the road. Robot factories, which are now
extremely expensive because they have to be very carefully built to ensure
precise predictability, could, in the future, be designed to produce a wider
variety of much cheaper goods.

It may turn out that the robots of the future aren’t machines with a single
very powerful computer in their heads – they’ll be more like machines with
several, special-purpose circuits in their heads, optimized to solve the hard
computational work of sensing and acting. Just like the brain.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

