

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Shaping data

July 10, 2013 | by Ashley Yeager

Mathematician and computer science/ECE professor John Harer and his
collaborators want to unwind the variety of biological clocks found in cells

from _Duke Engineering: Leading Research 2013_

It doesn’t tick, but biology keeps excellent time. Mathematician and computer
science/ECE professor John Harer and his collaborators want to unwind the
variety of biological clocks found in cells, looking closely at their
timepieces to see how they work individually and how they work together.

He’s also interested in understanding the rhythms of the heart and how
anomalies show up as complex shapes in EKGs. Topological data analysis is a
mathematical tool that uses geometric algorithms to scrutinize a database and
draw out inherent shapes within the data.

Harer explains that at a basic level, topological analyses convert the two-
dimensional peaks and troughs of an EKG into a multi-dimensional dataset,
transforming periodic patterns into circular shapes. And other anomalies turn
into other interesting shapes. The added dimensions of the topological
analysis ultimately let scientists perceive patterns in the data they wouldn’t
normally see, Harer says.

Topological data analysis is based on topology, an older area of mathematics
that scientists have only recently started using to look at large, complex
datasets. The technique takes measurements, of ten health indicators of a
thousand people, for example, and plots them as points in a ten-dimensional
space to get a data cloud. Harer can use the cloud to look for spheres,
curvature and other shapes to identify the factors, say age and weight, that
may heavily influence blood pressure, cholesterol and the other included
health measures.

That’s a hypothetical example, Harer says. He explains that the technique has
worked well so far for finding subtle relationships between indicators, like
linking between EKG and EEG patterns. It may also help him and other
scientists look for characteristic structures in gas plumes, which could
signal chemical warfare, help with tracking behavioral groups, which could
indicate terrorist activity, and identify signature clock genes within a
variety of cells.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

