

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Saving Lives in Nepal’s Next Big One

April 30, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

Duke Engineering senior Pratiksha Sharma is leading an effort to install a
nationwide earthquake early warning system in her home country

After contributing to relief efforts in Nepal following the four major
earthquakes of April and May, 2015, which killed more than 8,000 people,
Pratiksha Sharma found she needed to do more to help prevent such a major loss
of life in the long-term.

“Entire villages were leveled to the ground. It was heart-wrenching,” said
Sharma, a graduating senior at Duke University and native of Nepal, who had
just finished her freshman year at the time. “As we toured the sites, people
pointed to fallen structures and described them not by what types of buildings
they were, but by how many people had died in them.”

As a double major in electrical and computer engineering and computer science,
Sharma believed she could scope a project related to her studies that could
help the people of her home country. After contacting various professors at
Duke, she found Henri Gavin, a professor of civil and environmental
engineering who specializes in earthquake engineering.

Three years later, Sharma has advanced algorithms designed to detect pressure
waves that travel through the Earth’s surface, and has implemented the method
in prototype devices. Over spring break this year, Sharma demonstrated her
work to Dr. Lok Bijay Adhikari, the chief of Nepal’s National Seismological
Center and installed one of her sensors in his office.

“If sensors of such a network were close to the epicenter of the 2015
earthquake, they potentially could have alerted the people living in Kathmandu
more than a minute before it reached them,” said Gavin. “That’s enough time to
have saved a lot of lives.”

## The Earthquake of 2015

Just before noon on April 25, 2015, a magnitude 7.8 earthquake that maxed out
the seismic intensity scale shook the entire nation of Nepal. Originating
about 100 km northwest of the capital city of Kathmandu, this earthquake along
with a magnitude 7.1 aftershock on May 12 killed nearly 9,000 people and
injured nearly 22,000 more while damaging or destroying more than 600,000
structures. It was the deadliest earthquake in Nepal since 1934.

Pratiksha Sharma, who had just finished her freshman year in engineering at
Duke, banded together with four other Duke Nepalese students to raise $30,000
in relief funds. They then spent the first month of their summer visiting
damaged areas and deciding where the funds should be directed. With the
monsoon season quickly approaching, they focused on providing tin roofs to
damaged structures in five districts.

That’s why Sharma was on a bus to Kathmandu when the magnitude 7.3 aftershock
hit.

“We were at a rest stop when the building started shaking and rocks started
falling from the mountains,” said Sharma. “It was scary and chaotic. The bus
immediately turned around and headed back home.”

For Sharma and her family, home lies in a relatively flat plain outside of the
city. The geography spared their house from major damage, though part of the
structure still had to be dismantled for repairs. The experience made Sharma
resolve to find a longer-lasting way to help save people from such earthquakes
in the future.

“People often talked about how the last major earthquake was in 1988 and we
were due for another one, but nobody tried to do anything about it,” Sharma
said. “I knew I had to try or there might be nobody else who would.”

## Building a Prototype

After finding Professor Gavin the following fall semester, Sharma took his
advice that she should work on creating a sensor that could reliably detect an
earthquake and alert people living nearby. She wouldn’t have to start from
scratch, as one of Gavin’s recent PhD students, Anton Zaicenco, had developed
an earthquake early warning system for Vancouver, and had published his
methodology.

Zaicenco’s approach distinguishes actual earthquakes from electrical noise by
computing the polarization of the measurements. Seismic waves propagate in two
types of waves called P-waves and S-waves that radiate from their epicenter
through the earth. P-waves—or compressional waves—shake the ground only in the
direction they are traveling. S-waves—or shear waves— arrive after the
P-waves, propagating at about two-thirds the speed with much greater velocity
amplitudes, which are responsible for most earthquake damage. It is these
faster P-waves that engineers rely on to detect earthquakes. Not only do they
arrive at early warning sensors faster, their one-dimensional effects are easy
to detect.

The technique Sharma decided to use to detect these P-waves relies on a
triaxial accelerometer similar to those found in cell phones or fitness
watches. A triaxial sensor can detect these disturbances along three axes. The
challenging part of using a chip like this to detect earthquakes is in
determining if signals coming from the three axes correspond to a uni-
directional compression wave.

Sharma’s independent study involved the physics of elastic wave propagation
and the real-time data analysis used in computing the triaxial polarization of
seismic waves. She spent her junior year implementing and testing her data
analytics methods in Matlab with records of previous earthquakes. Come senior
year, she ported the algorithm to an EPS-8266 microprocessor and an I2C
digital accelerometer.

And then it was time to put her work to the test.

“To test the system using actual ground motion measurements taken with our
sensor, we put it inside a long metal pole and stuck it into the ground, and
then I hit the ground nearby with a sledgehammer as hard as I could,” said
Gavin. “And the sensor picked up the P-waves caused by the impact as clear as
a bell. I was happily surprised at how well it worked right off the bat.”

## Pitching to Nepal

With the difficult technical pieces figured out, Sharma implemented her
hardware setup into two earthquake detection boxes and took them to Nepal
during the 2018 spring break. One is sitting at the National Seismological
Center while the other resides at a nearby radio station to test each in
different environments. The latter works so well that Sharma can keep track of
the day’s changing traffic patterns as trucks roll over potholes on the roads
outside. The former was left as a demonstration for the chief of the National
Seismological Center, Lok Bijaya Adhikari.

“He seemed impressed with the prototypes and excited about the potential of a
national early warning system,” said Sharma. “He’ll be our main point of
contact moving forward, which is a really important contact to have.”

There are logistical hurdles standing between Sharma and her ambition of
implementing an early earthquake warning system for Nepal. A true nationwide
system will require 200 to 300 sensors spread throughout the country. While
the components for the sensors themselves are not expensive, paying people to
install and monitor them in remote areas across the entire country would be,
and the Nepalese government has many issues vying for space in their budget.

There is also the issue of where to place the sensors. Sharma’s idea is to
encase the hardware in concrete and bury it a few feet deep with a pole
running out to carry the signals to the surface. If the units are installed on
the sites of cellular phone towers, they would have access to both power and
communications. Getting corporate cooperation for such a plan, however, will
require memorandums of understanding, potentially facilitated by both
governmental and non-governmental agencies.

And then there’s Sharma’s career. After graduating from Duke in May, she will
begin working on a technical team for Goldman Sachs in New York City. While
she plans to continue pursuing the project, her new job will limit the time
she can spend on it and complicate the logistics of talking and meeting with
the people needed to keep the ball rolling.

But if successful, her efforts would be well worth the trouble.

If sensors had been near the epicenter of the 2015 earthquake, they could have
detected it up to 80 seconds before it reached Kathmandu. Even factoring in
the time it would take to corroborate the signal with other sensors and
transmit a warning to everyone’s cell phones—which are just as abundant in
Nepal as they are in America—people could have gotten more than a minute
warning.

“Even a warning of 20 seconds is a lot of time,” said Gavin. “Enough time for
people to get underneath something sturdy is really all it takes to save a lot
of lives.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

