

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# WWI Helmets Protect Against Shock Waves Just as Well as Modern Designs

February 14, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

French Adrian helmet suggests simple geometry may save brains from overhead
blasts

Biomedical engineers from Duke University have demonstrated that, despite
significant advancements in protection from ballistics and blunt impacts,
modern military helmets are no better at protecting the brain from shock waves
created by nearby blasts than their World War I counterparts. And one model in
particular, the French Adrian helmet, actually performed better than modern
designs in protecting from overhead blasts.

The research could help improve the blast protection of future helmets through
choosing different materials, layering multiple materials of different
acoustic impedance, or altering their geometry.

The results appeared online on February 13 in the journal PLOS ONE.

“While we found that all helmets provided a substantial amount of protection
against blast, we were surprised to find that the 100-year-old helmets
performed just as well as modern ones,” said Joost Op ‘t Eynde, a biomedical
engineering PhD student at Duke and first author of the study. “Indeed, some
historical helmets performed better in some respects.”

Researchers have only recently begun to study the brain damage a shock wave
can cause on its own — and for good reason. Helmets were originally designed
to protect from penetrating objects like bullets and shrapnel, and blast waves
will kill through pulmonary trauma long before they cause even minor brain
damage.

With the advent of body armor, however, soldiers’ lungs are much more
protected from such blasts than they used to be. This has caused the incidence
of pulmonary trauma following a blast to drop far below that of brain or spine
injuries in modern military conflicts, despite the difference in blast
tolerance.

While there have been studies that suggest modern helmets provide a degree of
protection from shock waves, no currently deployed helmet has been
specifically designed for blast protection. And because soldiers today
experiencing shock waves while wearing body armor aren’t all that different
from soldiers 100 years ago experiencing shock waves while in the trenches, Op
‘t Eynde decided to see if those old designs offered any lessons to be
learned.

“This study is, to the best of our knowledge, the first to assess the
protective capabilities of these historical combat helmets against blasts,”
said Op ‘t Eynde.

Working with Cameron “Dale” Bass, associate research professor of biomedical
engineering at Duke, Op ‘t Eynde created a system to test the performance of
World War I helmets from the United Kingdom/United States (Brodie), France
(Adrian), Germany (Stahlhelm) and a current United States combat variant
(Advanced Combat Helmet).

The researchers took turns placing different helmets on a dummy’s head
outfitted with pressure sensors at various locations. They then placed the
head directly underneath a shock tube, which was pressurized with helium until
a membrane wall burst, releasing the gas in a shock wave. The helmets were
tested with shock waves of varying strength, each corresponding to a different
type of German artillery shell exploding from a distance of one to five meters
away.

The amount of pressure experienced at the crown of the head was then compared
to brain injury risk charts created in previous studies. While all helmets
provided a five-to-tenfold reduction in risk for moderate brain bleeding, the
risk for someone wearing a circa-1915 French “Adrian” helmet was less than for
any of the other helmets tested, including the modern advanced combat helmet.

“The result is intriguing because the French helmet was manufactured using
similar materials as its German and British counterparts, and even had a
thinner wall,” said Op ‘t Eynde. “The main difference is that the French
helmet had a crest on top of its crown. While it was designed to deflect
shrapnel, this feature might also be deflecting shock waves.”

It also might be that, because the pressure sensor was mounted directly under
the crest, the crest provided an additional first layer for reflecting the
shock wave. And the French helmet did not show the same advantage in pressure
sensors at any other location. For locations such as the ears, performance
seemed to be dictated by the width of the helmet’s brim and just how much of
the head it actually covered.

As for the modern helmet, Op ‘t Eynde theorizes that its layered structure
might be important in its performance. Because a shock wave is reflected every
time it encounters a new material with a different acoustic impedance, the
layered structure of the modern helmet might contribute to its blast
protection.

But no matter which helmet was tested, the results clearly indicated that
helmets might play an especially important role in protecting against mild
blast-induced brain trauma. According to the researchers, this finding alone
shows the importance of continuing this type of research to design helmets
that can better absorb shock waves from nearby overhead explosions.

“The difference a simple crest or a wider brim can make in blast protection,
shows just how important this line of research could be,” said Op ‘t Eynde,
who initially came to Duke on a scholarship from the Belgian American
Educational Foundation, which was established with funds from American relief
efforts in Belgium during World War I. “With all of the modern materials and
manufacturing capabilities we possess today, we should be able to make
improvements in helmet design that protects from blast waves better than
helmets today or 100 years ago.”

CITATION: “Primary Blast Wave Protection in Combat Helmet Design: a Historical
Comparison between Present Day and World War I.” J. Op ‘t Eynde, A. W. Yu, C.
P. Eckersley and C. R. Bass. PLOS ONE, February 13, 2020. DOI:
10.1371/journal.pone.0228802

# # #

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

