

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Simulating Many Heartbeats

March 1, 2017

Undergraduate Stephanie Musinsky is upgrading a supercomputer program that can
simulate blood flow down to the cellular level

In the early 17th century, William Harvey made the first known complete,
detailed description of the body's circulatory system. Roughly 300 years
later, biomedical engineers at Duke are changing the definition of "detailed."

Stephanie Musinsky, a junior double-majoring in biomedical engineering and
electrical and computer engineering, is working on an evolving supercomputer
code that models blood flow down to the individual cell. Aptly named "HARVEY,"
the code could help physicians determine cardiovascular risks and predict
which treatments would return the best outcomes.

HARVEY is the brainchild of Amanda Randles, assistant professor of biomedical
engineering at Duke, who has already shown the code capable of modeling blood
flow through the human aorta and other complex vascular regions. As an
Undergraduate Research Fellow, Musinsky has been working with Randles for the
past year to complete three major upgrades, the first being to make the
simulation more intuitive.

"The time regulation code used to take a lot of parameters into account and
was pretty confusing," said Musinsky, who is the first student to introduce
changes to the code that are now being used by the entire group. "The input
use to be in non-dimensional units, but now you can just enter normal
measurements of time like seconds."

"Students like Stephanie can benefit by getting first-hand knowledge of how
the material she's learning in class can be applied to translational research
and potentially influence future treatment methods for some of the highest
burden diseases today," said Randles. "I think large-scale simulations like
the ones Stephanie is working on will play a key role in the future of
biomedical engineering."

The second upgrade takes the simulation's simplified, steady flow of blood and
introduces a patient-specific pulsatile waveform at the inlet. This allows the
blood flow to pulse in time with simulated activity, such as a resting state
versus a stressful cardio session at the gym.

Stephanie's final task involves developing techniques that will enable
simulations of much longer periods. A significant unmet need in the field is
to take models of several heartbeats and extending the simulation over several
minutes or hours of activity. It's a vital question to answer, as modeling one
or two heartbeats in large regions of the vasculature currently requires time
on the supercomputers of Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory and Oak Ridge
National Laboratory.

"I never really enjoyed working in a traditional wet laboratory, so working on
this project has been great for me," said Musinsky, who has found a home in
data analytics. "I've become better at coding and problem-solving, and I've
learned a lot I wouldn't have otherwise."

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

