

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Siobhan Rigby Oca: Designing Robotics Education at Duke

August 19, 2022

With expertise in course design, the Duke PhD graduate and new MEMS professor
of the practice will also serve as an assistant director of master's degrees

Siobhan Rigby Oca has joined the faculty of the Thomas Lord Department of
Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science (MEMS) in Duke’s Pratt School of
Engineering. Oca will design and implement robotics-related curricula for
undergraduates and graduate students in a dual role of Assistant Professor of
the Practice and Assistant Director of master’s degree programs for Robotics
and Autonomy.

“I am passionate about teaching and mentoring students in this exciting field
that is poised to change lives,” Oca said. “That’s why I went into engineering
and translational medicine to begin with, and why I want to create curricula
to train our students in designing, building and coding the robots and
autonomous systems of the future. It is such a thrill to see students gain
skills and confidence and to share in the excitement of discovery with them.”

> "I am passionate about teaching and mentoring students in this exciting
> field that is poised to change lives."

Duke cultivated her love of teaching and curricular development. While she
worked toward her PhD in mechanical engineering at Duke, Oca was mentored by
engineering educators Sophia Santillan and Genevieve Lipp. Santillan and Lipp
are also Duke Engineering PhD graduates who have joined the faculty—Santillan
is an associate professor of the practice who earned her doctorate in
mechanical engineering in 2007. Lipp is an assistant professor of the practice
who earned her doctorate in electrical and computer engineering in 2014.

Santillan and Lip worked with Oca, who was awarded a Bass Instructional
Fellowship to develop an introductory robotics course. The Bass program
supports high-quality teaching experiences for Duke PhD students, helping
students become knowledgeable in digital teaching and learning.

“It’s the lightbulb moments I have witnessed and experienced when the material
transforms from a set of rules to clarity and confidence in design and
implementation that inspired me to be an educator,” Oca said.

Her work in early 2022 with the National Science Foundation-funded Traineeship
for the Advancement of Surgical Technologies (TAST), led by Duke MEMS
professor Brian Mann, developed the primary course Medical Robotics and
Surgical Technologies _._ The course will be offered in Fall 2022.

In summer 2022, Oca received a Lane Family Fellowship in Ethics. It has
enabled Oca to collaborate with ethics instructor Jolynn Dellinger to create a
cornerstone course for the robotics curriculum to be offered in Spring 2023:
Ethics through Case Studies in Automation.

Oca is excited to partner with Duke Health members of the Duke MEMS faculty
such as Patrick Codd, a Duke associate professor of neurosurgery, and Daniel
Buckland, a Duke assistant professor of surgery, to bring real-world examples
into courses and research.

> “We have incredibly passionate and motivated students at Duke who want to
> make positive change in the world. I hope to help them learn how to make
> these impacts through robotics and autonomous technologies.”

Oca’s ingenuity, resourcefulness and perseverance are no surprise to Buckland,
her PhD advisor. Oca and Buckland worked on a NASA-funded project to design a
robotic arm that can autonomously take an ultrasound scan of an astronaut’s
arm without needing oversight by a human medical clinician.

Oca is particularly interested in reducing the gap between the promise of
robotic technologies and their implementation in the real world. “We must use
our knowledge and capabilities to build devices that help people—all people,”
Oca said.

She is excited that a project published as part of the 2022 International
Symposium on Medical Robotics (ISMR) to develop breast-mimicking phantom
tissue for autonomous ultrasound breast scans will continue via collaboration
to develop effective controllers with Leila Bridgeman, a Duke assistant
professor of mechanical engineering and materials science. Through this and
future student projects, she will continue to research trust and safety in
medical robotic technologies to enhance human-robot interactions.

As assistant director of the Duke MEMS master’s program in robotics, Oca will
implement new courses to ensure that students have practical skills,
thoughtful insights and inspiring engagement with technologies. She looks
forward to growing robotics at Duke alongside Assistant Professor Boyuan Chen,
who also started with Duke MEMS on July 1.

Oca’s enthusiasm for helping students develop their goals post-graduation
stems from mentoring students in the lab and teaching the Intro to Robotics
course as she earned her PhD at Duke.

“We have incredibly passionate and motivated students at Duke who want to make
positive change in the world,” she said. “I hope to help them learn how to
make these impacts through robotics and autonomous technologies.”

Oca is inspired when she hears from former Duke students discussing their
work, varying from NASA robotics to advising autonomous vehicle technologies,
and looks forward to helping develop more connections to Duke in this growing
field.

Study Autonomy at Duke

## Related News

November 16, 2021 | Bass Connections

### Duke Undergrad Course in Robotics Gets Reboot with Help of Engineering
Doctoral Student

June 26, 2020

### NASA Climbs Aboard with Support for Robot Project

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

