

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# The Skin Cancer Selfie

October 28, 2014

Duke’s gigapixel camera could help clinicians catch signs of melanoma and
other diseases earlier.

Melanoma is the fifth most common cancer type in the United States, and it's
also the deadliest form of skin cancer, causing more than 75 percent of skin-
cancer deaths. If caught early enough, though, it is almost always curable.
Now, a camera capable of taking snapshots of the entire human body and
rendering high-resolution images of a patient’s skin may help doctors spot
cancer early and save lives.

Developed by engineers at Duke University, the “gigapixel whole-body
photographic camera” is essentially three dozen cameras in one, allowing the
researchers to image the entire body down to a freckle. The research will be
presented at The Optical Society's (OSA) 98th Annual Meeting, Frontiers in
Optics, being held Oct. 19-23 in Tucson, Arizona.

“The camera is designed to find lesions potentially indicating skin cancers on
patients at an earlier stage than current skin examination techniques,” said
Daniel Marks, associate research professor of electrical and computer
engineering and one of the co-authors on the paper. “Normally a dermatologist
examines either a small region of the skin at high resolution or a large
region at low resolution, but a gigapixel image doesn’t require a compromise
between the two.”

Although whole-body photography has already been used to identify melanomas
and exclude non-dangerous “stable” lesions, the approach is typically limited
by the resolution of the cameras used. A commercial camera with a wide-angle
lens can easily capture an image of a person’s entire body, but it lacks the
resolution needed for a dermatologist to zoom in on one tiny spot.

Because of this limitation, dermatologists typically examine suspicious
lesions with digital dermoscopy—a technique to evaluate the colors and
microstructures of suspicious skins not visible to the naked eyes. The need
for two types of images drives up costs and limits possibilities for
telemedicine.

Enter the gigapixel camera, developed by David Brady, the Michael J.
Fitzpatrick Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Duke
University, along with scientists at the University of Arizona, the University
of California-San Diego and Distant Focus Corp.

The original version of the gigapixel camera features dozens of independent
microcameras arranged in a “dome” behind a spherical lens. The exposure time
and focus for each microcamera can be adjusted independently, and a computer
can do a preliminary examination of the images to determine if any areas
require future attention by the specialists. After the data have been
crunched, the result is a photo of unprecedented resolution.

To suit the needs for scanning skin, Marks moved the microcameras of the
original gigapixel camera outward from the center to focus on closer objects
and widen its field of view. “It took a new arrangement of the optics, but it
was a pretty simple process and the results have been good,” said Marks.

Marks points out that though the resolution of the gigapixel camera is not as
high as the best dermascope, it allows for a larger imaging area and could be
used for telemedicine, which could make the routine screening available to a
larger number of people, even in remote locations.

The next step for Marks is a clinical trial in a VA hospital. His team has
designed a version of the camera with 63 microcameras arranged specifically
for imaging close-range objects. The unit also has lighting to create a
standard illumination of patients’ skin and can be easily tucked away in a
closet until needed.

If the trial proves successful, Marks hopes to receive sustained funding for
the project. He envisions the cameras not only spotting potential lesions, but
eventually being able to help clinicians know what to look for.

“Nobody has ever had access to comprehensive images and medical records like
this before,” said Marks. “If we can build a large enough database and monitor
patients over time, we might be able to go back and find biological markers of
different diseases that medicine is currently unaware of.”

_Lyndsay Meyer from the Optical Society was a major contributor to this
piece._

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

