

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Small Glowing Protein Allows Researchers to Peer Deeper Into Living Tissues

December 5, 2022 | Michaela Kane

Proteins that emit longer wavelengths of near-infrared light help create
detailed, hi-res biomedical images

Biomedical and genetic engineers at Duke University and the Albert Einstein
College of Medicine have designed a small fluorescent protein that emits and
absorbs light that penetrates deep into biological tissue. Tailored to
wavelengths in the near-infrared (NIR) spectrum, this protein can help
researchers capture deeper, cleaner, more precise biomedical images.

This work appeared Dec. 1 in the journal Nature Methods.

Imaging deep tissues with light is challenging. Visible light is often quickly
absorbed and scattered by structures and molecules in the body, preventing
researchers from seeing deeper than a millimeter within a tissue. If they do
manage to probe further, substances like collagen or melanin often muddy the
image, creating the equivalent of background noise through their natural
fluorescence.

“Biological molecules naturally absorb and emit light in the visible spectrum,
which is about 350 to 700 nanometers,” said Junjie Yao, assistant professor of
biomedical engineering at Duke. “So when using it to image deep tissue, it’s
like trying to observe the stars in daylight. The signals get flooded out.”

To wade out from these muddied waters, Yao and his collaborator Vladislav
Verkhusha, professor of genetics at Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New
York developed a protein that absorbs and emits longer wavelengths of light in
the near-infrared (NIR) spectrum.

“Tissue is the most transparent in the 700-1300 nanometer window of NIR
light,” said Yao. “At those wavelengths, light can penetrate deeper into a
tissue, and because there is less natural background fluorescence to filter
out, we can take longer exposures and capture clearer images.”

Verkhusha and his lab used a process called directed molecular evolution to
engineer their proteins, using photoreceptors normally found in bacteria as
the basis for the structure. These photoreceptors are useful for imaging
research because they can switch between a silent and active state when hit
with a specific wavelength of light. They can bind with biliverdin, a
biomolecule that appears in high quantities in mammalian and human tissues.

“We studied the structure of the biliverdin to determine how the photoreceptor
would best attach to the biomolecule,” explained Verkhusha. “After we
understood the binding process, we carefully introduced substitutions of key
parts of the molecule connecting to the biliverdin to increase the electron
binding, which is necessary to obtain the red-shifted fluorescence. Last, we
performed random mutagenesis followed by high-throughput screenings so the
proteins would evolve and increase their brightness.”

The brightest found protein, termed miRFP718nano, is easily produced in cells
and tissues and emits light just outside of the visible range. But while the
NIR activation itself is helpful, what happens after the initial burst of
activity holds even more promise for biomedical imaging.

“We’ve seen that the NIR range can be broken up into two main zones,”
explained Yao. “When NIR light first hit these proteins, they emit light in
the first zone, which is about 700-900 nanometers. But as they decay, the
wavelength gradually gets longer, like the tail behind a comet. That’s when
they begin to emit light in the second NIR zone, which is from 900-1300
nanometers.”

In this second zone, all benefits from using the shorter wavelength, zone one
NIR light are enhanced: light can penetrate tissue two times deeper,
background fluorescence is significantly dimmed, and image resolution can be
two to three times clearer, allowing for detailed images of complex
structures.

As a proof of concept, Yao and his team at Duke used an imaging technique
called short-wavelength infrared (SWIR) to test the efficacy of the new
protein. This process sends NIR zone-one light deep into the tissue to
activate the fluorescent proteins. As the proteins decay, they emit NIR zone-
two light that provides information about the structure and composition of the
targeted tissues and cells that can be translated into high-resolution images.

After introducing engineered miRFP718nano proteins into their animal models,
the team used them to capture images of microbes in the mouse digestive tract,
visualize cells in a mouse mammary gland and even track changes to
inflammation in a mouse liver. All the images captured were clearer and more
detailed than images made using a standard NIR zone-one imaging protein.

Yao and Verkhusha are optimistic that their continued partnership will be a
boon for their work in both biomedical imaging and protein engineering. As
Verkhusha continues to refine and improve the fluorescent proteins and
biosensors, Yao is excited to use the new tool to visualize the brain more
closely and to potentially track the movement of cancer cells.

“This is an exciting new front of our decade-long collaboration because we can
use the imaging tools to guide the protein engineering decisions, and we can
use the advanced protein engineering to improve the imaging capabilities,” Yao
said.

This work was supported by grants from the US National Institutes of Health
(GM122567, EB028143, NS111039, NS115581), the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative
(226178), the Cancer Foundation Finland and Magnus Ehrnrooth Foundation, and
the NIH Intramural Research Program for the Vaccine Research Center of the
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.

CITATION: “Deep-Tissue SWIR Imaging Using Rationally Designed Small Red-
Shifted Near-Infrared Fluorescent Protein,” Olena Oliinyk, Chenshuo Ma, Sergei
Pletnev, Mikhail Baloban, Carlos Taboada, Huaxin Sheng, Junjie Yao, Vladislav
Verkusha. Nature Methods, December 1, 2022. DOI: 10.1038/s41592-022-01683-0

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

