

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Duke-Northrop Grumman Partnership Seeks to Unflatten Metamaterial Antennas

September 4, 2018

Department of Defense grant aims to produce aerodynamic metamaterial antennas
for military aircraft

Researchers from Duke University are teaming up with colleagues at the
University of Washington and industry experts at Northrop Grumman to develop
metamaterial antennas tailored to the contours and angles of modern military
aircraft.

The collaboration is the result of a new pilot program from the Department of
Defense called the Defense Enterprise Science Initiative (DESI). Backing five
university-industry teams pursuing independent projects, DESI is focused on
accelerating the impact of basic research on defense capabilities.

“Optimizing a metamaterial antenna’s shape for both aerodynamics and
electromagnetic performance simultaneously is a challenging task,” said David
Smith, the James B. Duke Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at
Duke and one of the original co-inventors of the technology. “But with the
help of Northrop Grumman’s expertise and capabilities in the realm of
aeronautics, we’re confident we can produce aerodynamic metamaterial antennas
with extraordinary mission flexibility.”

Metamaterials are artificial materials that manipulate waves like light and
sound through properties of their structure rather than their chemistry. Most
metamaterials are composed of a grid of repeating cells, each of which can be
individually tuned to steer electromagnetic waves along a gradient—a concept
called transformation optics.

Computational tools have been built to design metamaterials for reconfigurable
antennas that can focus in any direction without moving. Several commercial
companies have been founded on the technology, including Kymeta, which builds
flat-panel satellite antennas, and Echodyne, which makes compact phased-array
radar technology.

One feature both of these technologies share is that their devices are flat.
Introducing curves and angles to the device itself wreaks havoc on the
computations that allow the antennas to dynamically refocus. The new DESI
grant seeks to change that by developing the tools needed to design and
operate metamaterial antennas that can include curves and angles.

With these modeling tools in hand, the researchers will then build prototypes
that can aerodynamically conform to the geometric needs of military aircraft
and form predictable sets of radiation patterns. This flexibility will allow
the same metamaterial antenna to rapidly reconfigure to switch between
communications and radar taskings, for example.

“Programs like DESI are vital to foster collaboration in the research
ecosystem and accelerate the transition of ground-breaking basic science to
transformative capabilities,” said Dr. Bindu Nair, Deputy Director for Basic
Research at the Department of Defense. “I look forward to seeing how these
teams can help us address our unique and challenging defense problem sets.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

