

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Smuggling Light Through Opaque Materials

October 5, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

Newly proven physics opens chalcogenide glasses to applications at visible and
ultraviolet wavelengths

Electrical engineers at Duke University have discovered that changing the
physical shape of a class of materials commonly used in electronics and near-
and mid-infrared photonics—chalcogenide glasses—can extend their use into the
visible and ultraviolet parts of the electromagnetic spectrum. Already
commercially used in detectors, lenses and optical fibers, chalcogenide
glasses may now find a home in applications such as underwater communications,
environmental monitoring and biological imaging.

The results appear online on October 5 in the journal Nature Communications.

As the name implies, chalcogenide glasses contain one or more
chalcogens—chemical elements such as sulfur, selenium and tellurium. But
there’s one member of the family they leave out: oxygen. Their material
properties make them a strong choice for advanced electronic applications such
as optical switching, ultra-small direct laser writing (think tiny rewritable
CDs) and molecular fingerprinting. But because they strongly absorb
wavelengths of light in the visible and ultraviolet parts of electromagnetic
spectrum, chalcogenide glasses have long been constrained to the near- and
mid-infrared with respect to their applications in photonics.

“Chalcogenides have been used in the near- and mid-IR for a long time, but
they’ve always had this fundamental limitation of being lossy at visible and
UV wavelengths,” said Natalia Litchinitser, professor of electrical and
computer engineering at Duke. “But recent research into how nanostructures
affect the way these materials respond to light indicated that there might be
a way around these limitations.”

In recent theoretical research into the properties of gallium arsenide (GaAs),
a semiconductor commonly used in electronics, Litchinitser’ s collaborators,
Michael Scalora of the US Army CCDC Aviation and Missile Center and Maria
Vincenti of the University of Brescia predicted that nanostructured GaAs might
respond to light differently than its bulk or even thin-film counterparts.
Because of the way that high-intensity optical pulses interact with the
nanostructured material, very thin wires of the material lined up next to one
another might create higher-order harmonic frequencies (shorter wavelengths)
that could travel through them.

> “We found that illuminating a metasurface made of judiciously designed
> nanowires with near-infrared light resulted in generation and transmission
> of both the original frequency and its third harmonic, which was very
> unexpected because the third harmonic falls into the range where the
> material should be absorbing it."
>
> Natalia litchinitser

Imagine a guitar string that is tuned to resonate at 256 Hertz—otherwise known
as middle C. The researchers were proposing that if fabricated just right,
this string when plucked might also vibrate at frequencies one or two octaves
higher in small amounts.

Litchinitser and her PhD student Jiannan Gao decided to see if the same might
be true for chalcogenide glasses. To test the theory, colleagues at the Naval
Research Laboratory deposited a 300-nanometer-thin film of arsenic trisulfide
onto a glass substrate that was next nanostructured using electron beam
lithography and reactive ion etching to produce arsenic trisulfide nanowires
of 430 nanometers wide and 625 nanometers apart.

Even though arsenic trisulfide completely absorbs light above 600 THz—roughly
the color of cyan—the researchers discovered their nanowires were transmitting
tiny signals at 846 THz, which is squarely in the ultraviolet spectrum.

“We found that illuminating a metasurface made of judiciously designed
nanowires with near-infrared light resulted in generation and transmission of
both the original frequency and its third harmonic, which was very unexpected
because the third harmonic falls into the range where the material should be
absorbing it,” Litchinitser said.

This counterintuitive result is due to the effect of nonlinear third-harmonic
generation and its “phase locking” with the original frequency. “The initial
pulse traps the third harmonic and sort of tricks the material into letting
them both pass through without any absorption,” Litchinitser said.

Moving forward, Litchinitser and her colleagues are working to see if they can
engineer different shapes of chalcogenides that can carry these harmonic
signals even better than the initial nanostrips. For example, they believe
that pairs of long, thin, Lego-like blocks spaced certain distances apart
might create a stronger signal at both third and second harmonic frequencies.
They also predict that stacking multiple layers of these metasurfaces on top
of one another might enhance the effect.

If successful, the approach could unlock a wide range of visible and
ultraviolet applications for popular electronic material and mid-infrared
photonic materials that have long been shut out of these higher frequencies.

This work was supported by Office of Naval Research (N00014-19-1-2163,
N00014-20-1-2558), the Army Research Laboratory Cooperative Agreement
(W911NF-20-2-0078), and the National Science Foundation (ECCS-1846766,
OMA-1936276).

“Near-Infrared to Ultra-Violet Frequency Conversion in Chalcogenide
Metasurfaces.” Jiannan Gao, Maria Antonietta Vincenti, Jesse Frantz, Anthony
Clabeau, Xingdu Qiao, Liang Feng, Michael Scalora, Natalia M. Litchinitser.
Nature Communications, 2021. DOI: 10.1038/s41467-021-26094-1

## Related News

May 18, 2020

### ‘Vortex Microlaser’ Encodes Information in Twisting Beams of Light

May 08, 2020

### Litchinitser, Collaborators Win Aspen Institute Italia Award 2020

November 19, 2018

### Bending Light Around Tight Corners Without Backscattering Losses

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

