

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Student-produced Performance Illuminates Links Between Energy, Technology
and the Body

March 20, 2018

A Bass Connections project team is exploring ways to bring energy flows to
life and provoke deeper questioning of the implications of energy usage on our
future

_Originally posted onDuke Bass Connections_

Every day, energy is flowing all around us, constantly being created and
consumed. We get a sense of what energy looks like when a dancer leaps through
the air or an athlete dunks a basketball. But it’s hard to visualize what it
takes to power a refrigerator or heat the water for our coffee.

A Bass Connections project team is exploring ways to bring these energy flows
to life and provoke deeper questioning of the implications of energy usage on
our future.

Visualizing Energy through Live Performance and a related course, Performance
and Technology, are led by Thomas F. DeFrantz (African & African-American
Studies, Dance) and Martin Brooke(Electrical & Computer Engineering).

“We’ve been doing this class for five years now, and Bass Connections for
three years,” said DeFrantz. “This year, we have an energy project with Kyle
Bradbury and undergraduate and graduate students. We meet every week, and
people demo what they’ve come up with. This work will be taken forward through
SLIPPAGE for Moogfest this summer.”

Summer Dunsmore, a second-year MFA student in Experimental and Documentary
Arts, is working with DeFrantz to conceptualize and create the team’s
projection art display. “We’re interested in the hard facts about everyday
energy usage. Through using movement and performance to express energy
expended from the body, we’ve found a natural connection between our work and
reflecting on energy usage by consumers,” she said.

A typical class meeting starts with a free-flowing movement exercise, with
different music each time. DeFrantz gives verbal prompts while Dunsmore, who
is also the videographer for the Performance and Technology course, films the
students. Then students divide into smaller teams and work on various pieces
combining interactive technologies and movement. After presenting to the class
and having a critique with DeFrantz, the students continue developing the work
for presentation at Duke’s Choreolab in April.

“What I’m doing with the Bass Connections project pushes me to work more in
projection art,” said Dunsmore. Last year she took a course on computational
media, which helps MFA students “play with and start discovering new media
technologies to integrate into our creative work,” she said.

“I was interested in creating an installation space and working with
projectors, so I did a projection project. In September of last year, I had my
first installation show, _In Other Words, Other Worlds,_ at the 40 North Dance
Film Festival in California. Projection and installation work pose challenges
along the way but it’s very rewarding. I’d love to teach a projection art
class and help students learn how to tell a story that way.”

Dunsmore’s thesis project is called poem of H.O.M.E., an immersive
installation that combines original narrative with video art and abstract
storytelling. Audience members become participants, embodying the first-person
narrative of a cyborg character named Sibley Greene. Dunsmore hopes to “engage
the artgoer in a ‘play on words’,” asking each individual to make their own
visual language and give the text new meaning with movement. Dunsmore’s
installation is open to the public on March 31 and April 1 at the Shadowbox
Studio in Durham, with a reception on April 1.

Bass Connections team members will perform their original work at Duke’s on
April 13 and 14 and at Moogfest on May 18.

## Learn More

  * Explore the Bass Connections themes Information, Society & Culture and
    Energy & Environment.
  * Come to the Bass Connections Showcase on April 18.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

