

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# The Student Experience at Duke: From Tool Shop Neophytes to Madcap Creators

April 6, 2022 | Miranda Volborth

Duke’s makerspaces transform students into confident builders, no matter where
they start

Duke engineering students arrive at their first day of classes equipped with a
dazzling array of skills and talents. Whether they’re elite athletes,
polyglots, musicians or budding entrepreneurs, they’ve all demonstrated
ambition and academic excellence.

But some of these aspiring engineers have never even picked up a hammer or
used a power drill, let alone tried their hand at 3D printing.

“No worries,” said Ali Stocks, who manages The Foundry, a 7600-square-foot
maker space in Gross Hall on West Campus. The Foundry’s staff, Stocks said,
can teach any student how to use just about any tool in the space: laser
cutters, drill presses, bandsaws, milling machines—and yes, even hammers.

### “Hello, World.”

The Foundry occupies a swath of the recently renovated Gross Hall alongside
the Duke Energy Initiative, iiD and numerous research labs that sit nearly
within shouting distance of Harrington Engineering Quad. The main “pit” of the
Foundry is set up for classroom instruction and project-based learning; though
the Design POD is the flagship space for First-Year Design, several sections
meet here, under Stocks’ mentorship.

First-Year Design is an engineering student’s earliest taste of their
potential future profession. In this introductory class, students work in
teams to solve problems put to them by real-world clients in the university
and surrounding community. The goal of each team is to deliver a prototype
solution to their client by the end of term.

Stocks mentors some of the First-Year Design teams and knows that successful
projects start with a team of confident builders—which is why the Foundry
staff makes tool training as easy as possible. Students can sign up for
individual training by scanning a QR code and filling out a simple form with
the options they’re interested in. Workshops are held regularly, too, in
woodworking, soldering and laser cutting.

> “Once they get their feet wet and realize they can make things, they’re off
> and running."
>
> **ALI STOCKS** | MANAGER of THE FOUNDRY

Once they get their feet wet and realize they can make things, they’re off and
running,” said Stocks, indicating a bank of 3D printers on one wall. “There’s
no telling what I might find here on Monday morning. There are figurines,
gears, parts… stuff they had no idea how to make at the beginning of the
semester.”

Across West Campus, the staff at the Innovation Co-Lab are busy with their own
student onboarding.

The Co-Lab functions a lot differently today than it did in its early days,
when it mostly existed for academic computing support. While it still offers
original training for people who are interested in web development, in the
form of its Roots program, other tools have been added according to demand.
Among its many resources are 3D printers, laser cutters, water jet cutters,
CNC machines, and even satellite locations at the Rubinstein Arts Center and
in Lilly Library.

It looks a lot different, too.

“For new users, it might be overwhelming to step into the space,” said Michael
Faber, who manages the Innovation Co-Lab program. “That’s why we make sure the
barriers to entry are super low.” The Co-Lab recently launched First Fridays,
where students are invited to make stickers on a Cricut machine, a home
printer-sized electronic device that precisely cuts shapes from materials like
vinyl and card stock. Students bring a favorite digital image or pick
something out when they get to the Co-Lab. In just a few minutes, they’ve
learned how to use the Cricut, and they walk out with something they made
themselves.

“It’s a ‘Hello, world’ experience,” said Faber. “The hope is that the same
student might then sign up for our newsletter to hear about other events, or
take a Roots workshop, or maybe come in and try to make something on a 3D
printer, even if it’s just a Pokemon figurine.”

On the back side of the same building, there’s yet another resource for
engineering students: the Pratt Student Shop. There are no Pokemons to be
found here— the space is reserved exclusively for course work. But the space
is well equipped with lathes and bandsaws, laser machines and plasma cutters,
and tool-savvy staff supervise students as they work. The shop is available to
engineering students who pass a two-part safety test.

### The Wonder Years

As engineering students move out of their first year and on to more elaborate
design and production tasks, they use the university’s makerspaces in new ways
and operate with more independence.

  

  

Electrical and computer engineering professor Martin Brooke’s Ocean
Engineering class operates out of the Foundry, where they have easy access to
the tools and equipment they need to build drones designed to sample rain
forest biodiversity. Bass Connections and Global Health teams also use the
space; cupboards lining the walls are scrawled with the names of the teams
that work there and are filled with in-progress projects like portable
laparoscopes—small, flexible cameras used in surgery.

Upstairs, student groups and clubs have been assigned rooms accessible 24
hours a day via key card for those who have completed the requisite safety
training. Duke Electric Vehicles, Duke AERO, the Academy of Model Aeronautics,
Duke Conservation Tech and Duke Robotics Club all make their homes in the
space.

When conferences and competitions draw near, the student groups are doubly
glad to have a dedicated place to work. In the weeks leading up to the annual
RoboSub competition, for example, up to 30 members of the Duke Robotics Club
can be found in the Foundry on Thursday nights and Saturdays testing the
systems on their autonomous submarine.

"Having our own space in the Foundry is extremely useful. It gives us a single
place to keep all our supplies and raw materials while storing sensitive
electronic equipment properly. We also have our own areas to solder, anodize
and carry out other tasks that would be dangerous to perform outside the
Foundry's lab setting,” said Duke Robotics Club President Nick Chakraborty
ECE’23.

Anuj Thakkar, who graduated from Duke Engineering in 2020 with a degree in
mechanical engineering, was similarly fond of the Co-Lab.

“I came into Duke with no hands-on experience,” he said. “I didn’t know how
things were built or assembled. I filled out paperwork to drop Pratt before I
even started classes.”

> “I came into Duke with no hands-on experience. I didn’t know how things were
> built or assembled. I filled out paperwork to drop Pratt before I even
> started classes.”
>
> **Anuj Thakkar'20** | Mechanical Engineer

But as fate would have it, Thakkar wandered into the Co-Lab before he made his
decision. “The staff there made me feel that inexperience was ok—that it was
ok to learn and to mess up, that a broken machine was no big deal, and that it
was just a part of learning and trying things.”

Thakkar began to spend a lot of time in the Co-Lab, soaking up everything he
could from the experienced fabricators staffing the lab. “They’re not pushy,
but they’re always there to offer great advice if you need them,” he said. “Of
course I learned through the engineering curriculum how to design things, but
the Co-Lab allowed me to bring that theoretical knowledge into a hands-on
environment and figure out how to actually build those products.”

And make things he did. “I made the stupidest, craziest things I could think
of,” Thakkar said happily. There was a chocolate drone, a levitating speaker
and a semi-flexible, washable brace to protect his own broken wrist. Then he
made a monowheel that was funded, in part, by a grant from the Co-Lab.

  

Those grants exist to feed interest and excitement. Notably, proposals do not
need to be tied to any specific academic outcome.

“The whole point is to be here and be inspired,” said Faber.

### Maker Spaces Make Impact

While the Co-Lab aims to foster creativity just for the sake of creativity, it
also houses plenty of projects with measurable real-world impact. In the
spring of 2020, several projects quickly launched in support of healthcare
workers facing what was at the time an unfamiliar new threat to human health:
COVID-19.

“The world was a whirlwind,” said Konstantinos Economopoulos MD, PhD, MEng who
is a fifth-year surgical resident at Duke. As the university locked down, he
recalled, the Co-Lab was one of the few spaces that remained open to people
actively working on strategies to combat viral transmission.

> “We had to really think outside the box about how to attack the problem of
> having a very low supply of personal protective equipment."
>
> **Konstantinos Economopoulos MD, PhD, MEng** | Surgical Resident

Economopoulos, who was a Design Health fellow and a Master of Biomedical
Engineering student at the time, was one of those people. “We had to really
think outside the box about how to attack the problem of having a very low
supply of personal protective equipment,” he said. When research indicated
that the virus was being transmitted to patients in part by the donning and
doffing of PPE, his team decided to try moving protective measures closer to
the patient. In the Co-Lab, they began prototyping a “bubble” that enclosed a
patient’s bed and filtered the air inside. Drawing on their contacts and
knowledge of supply chains, the staff were able to procure the necessary
materials, which were in short supply.

The pace of the iteration cycle was breakneck; their product was revamped six
times over two weeks before moving to a simulation lab at the School of
Nursing, where they could quickly collect practical feedback from actual
practitioners.

When the team proposed its product, COVIAGE, to Duke University Hospital a
short time later, administrators saw promise beyond the current healthcare
crisis and recommended that the team pursue FDA Emergency Use Authorization
approval for their invention. That approval was granted in September 2020.

“The most amazing part of the experience was how everyone involved was so
engaged and willing to help. The level of interdepartmental collaboration was
incredible,” said Economopoulos.

In 2020, _Newsweek_ and _Make:_ magazine teamed up to create a list of the
“Best Maker Schools in Higher Education.” To be considered for the list, a
school must implement curricula that encourages learning through doing,
emphasize collaborative problem-solving, offer physical makerspaces, and
foster a diverse and active community of makers and doers.

To the surprise of no one who has taken a Duke Engineering course in the last
decade, Duke University made the non-ranked list. And whether a student is
launching a biomedical device company or simply learning how to hammer a nail,
Duke has all the resources and support they need to get started.

Become Equipped and Inspired

## Related News

December 07, 2021

### Solutions for Seedling Sunburn, Runaway Trash Bins and Other Woes

September 04, 2019

### 'I Can Do This'—Duke’s First-Year Design Course Boosts Student Self-
Efficacy

April 09, 2019

### First Year, First Patent Pending

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

