

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Heating Up the Summer, 3D Style

July 3, 2018 | by Alexis Owens

Duke's Innovation Co-Lab remains busy through the summer with students working
on a myriad of projects from solar panel soiling to ocean exploring

_From theDuke Research Blog  
_

While some students like to spend their summer recovering from a long year of
school work, others are working diligently in the Innovation Co-Lab in the
Telcom building on West Campus.

They're working on the impacts of dust and particulate matter (PM) pollution
on solar panel performance, and discovering new technologies that map out the
3D volume of the ocean.

The Co-Lab is one of three 3D printing labs located on campus. It allows
students and faculty the opportunity to creatively explore research through
the use of new and emerging technologies.

Third-year PhD candidate Michael Valerino said his long term research project
focuses on how dust and air pollution impacts the performance of solar panels.

"I've been designing a low-cost prototype which will monitor the impact of
dust and air pollution on solar panels," said Valerino. "The device is going
to be used to monitor the impacts of dust and particulate matter (PM)
pollution on solar panel performance. This process is known as soiling. This
is going to be a low-cost alternative (~$200 ) to other monitoring options
that are at least $5,000."

Most of the 3D printers come with standard Polylactic acid (PLA) material for
printing. However, because his first prototype completely melted in India's
heat, Valerino decided to switch to black carbon fiber and infused nylon.

"It really is a good fit for what I want to do," he said. "These low-cost
prototypes will be deployed in China, India, and the Arabian Peninsula to
study global soiling impacts."

In a step-by-step process, he applied acid-free glue to the base plate that
holds the black carbon fiber and infused nylon. He then placed the glass plate
into the printer and closely examined how the thick carbon fiber holds his
project together.

Michael Bergin, a professor of civil and environmental engineering professor
at Duke collaborated with the Indian Institute of Technology-Gandhinagar and
the University of Wisconsin last summer to work on a study about soiling.

The study indicated that there was a decrease in solar energy as the panels
became dirtier over time. The solar cells jumped 50 percent in efficiency
after being cleaned for the first time in several weeks. Valerino's device
will be used to expand Bergin's work.

As Valerino tackles his project, Duke student volunteers and high school
interns are in another part of the Co-Lab developing technology to map the
ocean floor.

The Blue Devil Ocean Engineering team will be competing in the Shell Ocean
Discovery XPRIZE, a global technology competition challenging teams to advance
deep-sea technologies for autonomous, fast and high-resolution ocean
exploration. (Their mentor, Martin Brooke, was recently featured on Science
Friday.)

The team is developing large, highly redundant carbon drones that are eight
feet across. The drones will fly over the ocean and drop pods into the water
that will sink to collect sonar data.

Tyler Bletsch, a professor of the practice in electrical and computer
engineering, is working alongside the team. He describes the team as having
the most creative approach in the competition.

"We have many parts of this working, but this summer is really when it needs
to come together," Bletsch said. "Last year, we made it through round one of
the competition and secured $100,000 for the university. We're now using that
money for the final phase of the competition."

The final phase of the competition is scheduled to be held fall 2018. Though
campus is slow this summer, the Innovation Co-Lab is keeping busy. You can
keep up-to-date with their latest projects here.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

