

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Sunassee Wins FIP John Chambers Scholarship Award

September 23, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

PhD student Enakshi Sunassee is working on a device that could reveal
metabolic biomarkers of a cancer’s recurrence

Born in Mauritius, a developing country off the coast of Africa, Enakshi
Sunassee grew up with first-hand knowledge of the issues associated with
limited access to health care. That experience drives her work on developing
medical technologies that are equally useful to people in low-resources
settings.

After graduating summa cum laude from the University of South Florida with a
BS in chemical engineering, Enakshi chose to come to Duke to pursue her
passion. With a variety of projects geared toward impacting low-resource
areas, the laboratory of Nimmi Ramanujam, the Robert W. Carr, Jr.,
Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering, was a natural fit.

When she arrived on campus in 2019, Enakshi was awarded one of two of that
year’s John Chambers Fellowships from the Fitzpatrick Institute for Photonics
(FIP). The award supports incoming PhD students pursuing research related to
photonics. With the help of the award, Enakshi spent two years shadowing
senior graduate students on several of their projects, including using
metabolic imaging to study dormancy models of cancer, before moving on to her
own project—studying chemo-induced metabolic reprogramming.

The Ramanujam lab has developed three fluorescent molecules that can indicate
the levels of three separate cellular functions related to metabolism. One
provides an indirect measurement of how much sugar is being consumed by a
cell. Another provides information on the use of the mitochondria. The third
indicates levels of fatty acid oxidation—the amount of fats being broken down
by the mitochondria. When injected into an animal, the trio of fluorescent
markers can provide researchers with insights into the metabolism of tumors
over time.

Enakshi’s work helping develop this technology earned her this year’s John
Chambers Scholarship award, which funds current Duke graduate students to help
them pursue research projects for up to two years. With the new support,
Enakshi will work to translate the tumor metabolism detection technology from
bench to bedside, while ensuring the developing device could be used in low-
and middle-income countries.

If successful, the device could reveal metabolic biomarkers of a cancer’s
recurrence, leading to a portable platform that can predict a patient’s
response to chemotherapy to better inform their pharmacological treatments to
enhance outcomes in chemo-resistant tumors.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

