

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# 'Superlens' Extends Range of Wireless Power Transfer

January 9, 2014

Duke University researchers have demonstrated the feasibility of wireless
power transfer using low-frequency magnetic fields over distances much larger
than the size of the transmitter and receiver.

Inventor Nikola Tesla imagined the technology to transmit energy through thin
air almost a century ago, but experimental attempts at the feat have so far
resulted in cumbersome devices that only work over very small distances. But
now, Duke University researchers have demonstrated the feasibility of wireless
power transfer using low-frequency magnetic fields over distances much larger
than the size of the transmitter and receiver.

The advance comes from a team of researchers in Duke’s Pratt School of
Engineering, who used metamaterials to create a “superlens” that focuses
magnetic fields. The superlens translates the magnetic field emanating from
one power coil onto its twin nearly a foot away, inducing an electric current
in the receiving coil.

The experiment was the first time such a scheme has successfully sent power
safely and efficiently through the air with an efficiency many times greater
than what could be achieved with the same setup minus the superlens.

The results, an outcome of a partnership with the Toyota Research Institute of
North America, appear online in Nature Scientific Reports on Jan. 10.

“For the first time we have demonstrated that the efficiency of magneto-
inductive wireless power transfer can be enhanced over distances many times
larger than the size of the receiver and transmitter,” said Yaroslav Urzhumov,
assistant research professor of electrical and computer engineering at Duke
University. “This is important because if this technology is to become a part
of everyday life, it must conform to the dimensions of today’s pocket-sized
mobile electronics.”

In the experiment, Yaroslav and the joint Duke-Toyota team created a square
superlens, which looks like a few dozen giant Rubik’s cubes stacked together.
Both the exterior and interior walls of the hollow blocks are intricately
etched with a spiraling copper wire reminiscent of a microchip. The geometry
of the coils and their repetitive nature form a metamaterial that interacts
with magnetic fields in such a way that the fields are transmitted and
confined into a narrow cone in which the power intensity is much higher.

On one side of the superlens, the researchers placed a small copper coil with
an alternating electric current running through it, which creates a magnetic
field around the coil. That field, however, drops in intensity and power
transfer efficiency extremely quickly, the further away it gets.

“If your electromagnet is one inch in diameter, you get almost no power just
three inches away,” said Urzhumov. “You only get about 0.1 percent of what’s
inside the coil.” But with the superlens in place, he explained, the magnetic
field is focused nearly a foot away with enough strength to induce noticeable
electric current in an identically sized receiver coil.

Urzhumov noted that metamaterial-enhanced wireless power demonstrations have
been made before at a research laboratory of Mitsubishi Electric, but with one
important caveat: the distance the power was transmitted was roughly the same
as the diameter of the power coils. In such a setup, the coils would have to
be quite large to work over any appreciable distance.

“It’s actually easy to increase the power transfer distance by simply
increasing the size of the coils,” explained Urzhumov. “That quickly becomes
impractical, because of space limitations in any realistic scenario. We want
to be able to use small-size sources and/or receivers, and that’s what the
superlens enables us to do.”

Another trivial way to increase the power in the wireless receiver is, of
course, to simply crank up the power. While this is practical to an extent, at
high enough powers the fields would start trying to yank the watch off of your
wrist. Despite this limitation, however, Urzhumov said that magnetic fields
have distinct advantages over the use of electric fields for wireless power
transfer.

“Most materials don’t absorb magnetic fields very much, making them much safer
than electric fields," he said. "In fact, the FCC approves the use of 3-Tesla
magnetic fields for medical imaging, which are absolutely enormous relative to
what we might need for powering consumer electronics. The technology is being
designed with this increased safety in mind.”

Going forward, Urzhumov wants to drastically upgrade the system to make it
more suitable for realistic power transfer scenarios, such as charging mobile
devices as they move around in a room. He plans to build a dynamically tunable
superlens, which can control the direction of its focused power cone.

“The true functionality that consumers want and expect from a useful wireless
power system is the ability to charge a device wherever it is – not simply to
charge it without a cable,” said Urzhumov. “Previous commercial products like
the PowerMat™ have not become a standard solution exactly for that reason;
they lock the user to a certain area or region where transmission works,
which, in effect, puts invisible strings on the device and hence on the user.
It is those strings - not just the wires - that we want to get rid of.”

If successful, the usable volume of “power hot spots” should be substantially
expanded. It may not be easy, however, to maintain the efficiency of the power
beam as it gets steered to a high degree. But that is a challenge that
Urzhumov and his colleagues look forward to dealing with.

###

“Magnetic Metamaterial Superlens for Increased Range Wireless Power Transfer,”
Lipworth, L., Ensworth, J., Seetharam, K., Huang, D., Lee, J.S., Schmalenberg,
P., Nomura, T., Reynolds, M.S., Smith, D.R., and Urzhumov, Y. Nature, 2013.

An open access copy of this article is freely available from Duke University
for those who do not have access to the original journal.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

