

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Cross-Training Graduate Students to Develop Smart Robotic Surgical
Instruments

November 29, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

Duke’s new NSF Research Traineeship Program brings engineers and computer
scientists into the operating room to solve unmet surgical challenges

Duke University has launched a new training program aimed at encouraging
doctoral students to develop the next generation of smart robotic surgical
instruments.

Funded through a five-year, $3 million grant from the National Science
Foundation Research Traineeship (NRT) Program, the Traineeship in the
Advancement of Surgical Technologies (TAST) program will provide a pathway for
engineering and computer science graduate students to design innovations in
fundamentally new technologies to advance surgical practice. By engaging
interdisciplinary expertise from across Duke’s campus in areas such as law,
ethics and global health, as well as industry partners, these new surgical
instruments will also take into account provider, societal, end-user and
patient needs.

“Duke has an excellent medical center with world-class surgeons who are
already collaborating with engineers to create new surgical technologies,”
said Brian Mann, professor of mechanical engineering and materials science at
Duke and the architect of the TAST program. “It’s the perfect setting for
taking a more purposeful approach to training tomorrow’s scientists to bring
these emerging technologies into the operating room.”

Graduate students from all of Duke’s engineering departments as well as the
computer science department are eligible for the two-year program. The first
year begins with a semester focused on machine learning courses in combination
with real-world surgical design challenges and a series of two-week dives into
subjects such as robotics, entrepreneurship, ethics, and the realities and
challenges of surgical procedures. The second semester is devoted to a group
design project where students shadow surgeons on the job to identify unmet
needs and work with medical students to propose potential solutions.

> “Duke has an excellent medical center with world-class surgeons who are
> already collaborating with engineers to create new surgical technologies.
> It’s the perfect setting for taking a more purposeful approach to training
> tomorrow’s scientists to bring these emerging technologies into the
> operating room.”
>
> **brian mann** | professor of mechanical engineering & materials science

“We want students to become confident in communicating with surgeons and learn
how to go from the idea stage to creating useful technologies,” Mann said.

In the second year, TAST trainees propose and complete a research project
aligned with their PhD research that addresses a current problem in surgery,
mentored both by their own PhD advisor and a TAST faculty member. At the end
of the year, the students will present their findings at an annual conference,
with an audience of external industry experts to provide feedback.

Students then go on to complete an internship with private companies on the
advisory board, which currently includes industry leaders such as Blue Cross
Blue Shield, Johnson & Johnson, and up-and-coming surgical robotic outfits.

“We want to motivate students to create technologies that will move past
current technologies where surgeons are essentially driving the robot like a
car,” Mann said. “The next step in the evolution of surgical tools is to turn
over some of the procedures that could be done better with automation
technology to the robots.”

TAST officially kicked off in September 2021, and the first class is scheduled
to begin the program in the Fall of 2022. Current Duke engineering and
computer science doctoral students who are interested in participating can
find more information at https://mems.duke.edu/phd/certificates-training
(scroll down to the "Research Traineeship Programs" header and open the "TAST"
link).

Besides Mann, the interdisciplinary program is co-led by Leila Bridgeman, an
expert in controls and robotics; Sabino Zani, a leader in surgical techniques
and surgical robotics; and Patrick Codd, an expert in neurosurgery and laser
scalpels. The leadership team includes faculty and staff from Duke
University’s Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science and Departments of Biomedical Engineering, Computer Science, and
Electrical and Computer Engineering; Duke University School of Medicine’s
Departments of Emergency Medicine, Neurosurgery and Oncology; and Duke
Innovation & Entrepreneurship, Intellectual Property, and the Ofﬁce for
Translation & Commercialization.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

