

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Gold Nanostars and Immunotherapy Vaccinate Mice Against Cancer

August 17, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

New treatment cures, vaccinates mouse in small proof-of-concept study

By combining an FDA-approved cancer immunotherapy with an emerging tumor-
roasting nanotechnology, Duke University researchers improved the efficacy of
both therapies in a proof-of-concept study using mice.

The potent combination also attacked satellite tumors and distant cancerous
cells, completely curing two mice and effectively vaccinating one against the
disease. The results appeared online in Scientific Reports on August 17.

"The ideal cancer treatment is non-invasive, safe and uses multiple
approaches," said Tuan Vo-Dinh, the R. Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Professor
of Biomedical Engineering, professor of chemistry, and director of the
Fitzpatrick Institute for Photonics at Duke University. "We also aim at
activating the patient's own immune system to eradicate residual metastatic
tumors. If we can create a long-term anticancer immunity, then we'd truly have
a cure."

The new approach relies on a "photothermal immunotherapy" technology developed
by an interdisciplinary group of Duke researchers that uses lasers and gold
nanostars to heat up and destroy tumors in combination with an
immunotherapeutic drug.

This photothermal therapy hinges on the widely demonstrated fact that
nanoparticles accumulate preferentially within a tumor due to its leaky
vasculature.

While several researchers around the world are pursuing such techniques using
nanoparticles, Vo-Dinh has pioneered the development of a unique type of
nanoparticles called gold nanostars, which have the advantage of geometry.
Because gold nanostars have multiple sharp spikes, they are able to capture
the laser's energy more efficiently. This allows them work with less exposure,
making them more effective deeper within a tissue.

"The nanostar spikes work like lightning rods, concentrating the
electromagnetic energy at their tips," said Vo-Dinh. "We've experimented with
these gold nanostars to treat tumors before, but we wanted to know if we could
also treat tumors we didn't even know were there or distant and undetectable
tumors that have spread throughout the body."

To attack distant cancerous cells outside of the treatment site, Vo-Dinh
teamed up with colleagues Brant Inman and Greg Palmer in the Departments of
Surgery and Radiation Oncology at Duke University Medical Center, and Paolo
Maccarini of Duke Biomedical Engineering. They combined this gold nanostar
therapy with a cancer immunotherapy recently cleared by the FDA and in
clinical use.

Normally, the body's immune system protects against the growth of cancerous
cells. Many tumors, however, overproduce a molecule called PD-L1, which
effectively disables T cells, the immune system's main soldiers.

Several pharmaceuticals are being developed to attempt to block the action of
PD-L1, allowing the immune system to destroy the cancerous cells. Inman has
been active in the early development and current clinical use of these
drugs—which were used in this study—to treat bladder cancer.

In the experiment, the Duke researchers injected bladder cancer cells into
both hind legs of a group of mice. After waiting for the tumors to grow, the
researchers began trying different types of treatments—but only on one of the
legs.

Those that received no treatments all quickly succumbed to the cancer, as did
those receiving only the gold nanostar photothermal therapy, because the
treatment did nothing to affect the tumor in the untreated leg. While a few
mice responded well to the immunotherapy alone, with the drug stalling both
tumors, none survived more than 49 days.

The group treated with both the immunotherapy and the gold nanostar
photothermal therapy fared much better, with two being completely cured.

"When a tumor dies, it releases particles that trigger the immune system to
attack the remnants," said Vo-Dinh. "By destroying the primary tumor, we
activated the immune system against the remaining cancerous cells, and the
immunotherapy prevented them from hiding."

The combined treatment worked so well that, in a bit of a surprise, one mouse
is still alive nearly a year out with zero recurrence of the cancer. Even a
month later, when the researchers injected more cancerous cells, the mouse's
immune system attacked and destroyed them without a problem indicating a
vaccine effect in the cured mouse.

"This is our goal—our dream," said Vo-Dinh.

While researchers conducted this proof-of-concept experiment with a small
number of mice, the results are encouraging. The Duke researchers now plan to
follow up with larger cohorts and to work with other clinical researchers to
test the treatment on mouse models of brain, breast and lung cancer.

"Synergistic Immuno Photothermal Nanotherapy (SYMPHONY) for the Treatment of
Unresectable and Metastatic Cancers." Yang Liu, Paolo Maccarini, Gregory M.
Palmer, Wiguins Etienne, Yulin Zhao, Chen-Ting Lee, Xiumei Ma, Brant A. Inman
& Tuan Vo-Dinh. Scientific Reports, 2017. DOI: 10.1038/s41598-017-09116-1

# # #

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

