

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Tablet-Based Vaccine Prevents Urinary Tract Infections in Mice

November 28, 2022 | Michaela Kane

Quick-dissolving tablet shows long-lasting protection from bacteria that
causes UTIs

Biomedical engineers at Duke University have developed a tablet-based vaccine
for urinary tract infections (UTIs) that rapidly dissolves when placed under
the tongue. The new treatment could offer an easy and practical alternative to
high-dose, oral antibiotics ­­which are the current standard for UTI
treatments.

The results appeared online November 23 in the journal Science Advances.

Urinary tract infections occur when bacteria infect the urethra, bladder,
ureters or kidneys. More than half of all women experience a UTI, and they
pose a significant risk for patients who require a catheter. While UTIs often
cause pain and discomfort, organ damage and even sepsis can also occur if the
infection reaches the kidneys.

These infections can be resolved with oral antibiotics, but some patients face
recurrent UTIs, requiring prolonged, repeated and sometimes expensive
antibiotic use. This extended antibiotic use negatively affects the patient’s
microbiome, as the antibiotics also kill helpful bacteria, creating an
environment for antibiotic-resistant bacteria to thrive. Today, many strains
of bacteria that cause UTIs have become increasingly resistant to several of
the antibiotics commonly used to treat these infections.

To address this issue, a team of collaborators including Joel Collier, the
Theodore Kenney Professor of Biomedical Engineering at Duke, and Sean Kelly,
who completed this work as a PhD student in the Collier lab, developed a
vaccine that can be absorbed under the tongue and activates key immune cells
to precisely attack UTI-causing bacteria.

“There was previous literature that showed that drugs absorbed through the
mucus membrane under the tongue could trigger an immune response, especially
in similar mucosal membranes throughout the body,” said Kelly, now a post-
doctoral fellow at Johns Hopkins University. “This was important, because one
of the challenges for developing a vaccine for UTIs is that you need to
trigger an immune response in both the blood and in the urogenital tract, and
the intramuscular shots generally do not trigger strong responses in those
mucosal areas.”

“Additionally, there are a lot of barriers to easy vaccine delivery. You often
need refrigeration, you need trained personnel to administer the shot, and you
need materials like needles,” Kelly said. “But the tablet delivery method
offers a solution to a lot of these problems. It can be stored at room
temperature without any issues. The hope is that a patient could pop it out of
a package, put it under their tongue and in a few seconds, it’s gone, and the
patient can go on with their day.”

Getting past the membrane layer under the tongue is tricky, as mucus was made
to prevent large molecules, viruses, and other materials from entering the
body. But the Collier lab specializes in developing biomaterials that self-
organize into useful structures like nanoparticles, nanofibers, and gels,
which can be customized to activate key cells in the immune system. The team
found that they could add mucus-resistant modifications to these structures
that allows them to easily slip through the mucosal layer.

After finalizing the sugars and other structural components needed in a
quickly dissolving, vaccine-delivering tablet, the team began exploring how to
specifically target UTI-causing bacteria.

“Sean identified certain proteins that appeared frequently in a type of
bacteria called uropathogenic E. coli, which causes most UTIs,” said Collier.
“That gave us a clear target for the immune cells to attack.”

The team wove the E. coli proteins into their mucus-penetrating nanofibers.
Once this structure is absorbed, the incorporated bacterial proteins activate
immune cells, giving them specific instructions to kill the bacteria in both
the blood and urogenital tract.

“The efficacy of the tablet-delivered vaccine was comparable to antibiotics,
and we have found that antibody responses raised by the nanofiber materials
can be very durable, lasting for the lifetime of a mouse, so we are hopeful
that protection from UTIs will be equally long-lasting,” said Collier. “Sean
and the team also conducted microbiome analyses, and they found that there was
significantly less disruption to the gut microbiome of the mice models than
what we see with antibiotics.”

The team will continue to refine their model, as Collier and his collaborators
are curious if the vaccine can be used to minimize or even prevent UTI
recurrence. They also plan to explore additional disease models where the
sublingual vaccine delivery mechanism could be especially useful. Many of
these diseases, including gonorrhea and chlamydia, also involve the urogenital
tract and face issues with antibiotic resistance.

Although the team was excited about the results for long-term UTI protection,
they are also optimistic for the new possibilities available with the
sublingual vaccine tablet.

“Especially after COVID, it is becoming clear that vaccines are increasingly
going to be part of our lives, so we need more accessible vaccinations that
can be repeated easily,” said Collier.

“Current vaccines, with their dependence on continuous refrigeration, require
substantial infrastructure that is not available in vast parts of the world.
The tablet technology can be much more equitably delivered because it avoids
this dependence on refrigeration,” Collier said. “If we are successful, anyone
could receive the vaccine, whether they’re close to a large hospital system or
not. We’re a ways off from that reality, but we continue to work in that
direction.”

This work was supported Duke University and the National Institutes of Health
NIBIB 5R01EB009701)(NIAID 1R01AI167300), the National Science Foundation
Graduate Research Fellowship Program (DGE-1644868)(NIH T32GM008555) and the
North Carolina Biotechnology Center Grant (2017-IDG-1018).

Competing financial interests: JHC and SHK are investors on the following
patent applications related to this work filed by Duke University: U.S.
pending patent no. 63/358,373, filed on 5 July 2022; U.S. pending patent no.
17/764,406, filed on 28 March 2022; and U.S. pending patent no. 16/632,226,
filed on 17 January 2020. The authors declare no other competing interests.

CITATION: “A Sublingual Nanofiber Vaccine to Prevent Urinary Tract
Infections,” Sean Kelly, Nicole Votaw, Benjamin Cossette, Yaoying Wu, Shamitha
Shetty, Lucas Shores, Luqman Issah, Joel Collier. Science Advances, November
23, 2022. DOI: 10.1038/s41591-021-01339-0

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

