

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Oddball Enzyme Provides Easy Path to Synthetic Biomaterials

May 16, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

New recipe uses overlooked DNA builder to simplify production of synthetic
biomaterials

Materials scientists have written the recipe on how to use an oddball enzyme
to build new biomaterials out of DNA. The work provides instructions for
researchers the world over to build self-assembling molecules for applications
ranging from drug delivery to nanowires.

The molecular machinery of the human body typically relies on genetic
templates to carry out construction. For example, molecular machines called
DNA polymerases read DNA base-by-base to build accurate copies.

There are, however, a few black sheep in the world of molecular biology that
do not require a template. One such outlier, called terminal deoxynucleotidyl
transferase (TdT), works in the immune system and catalyzes the template-free
addition of nucleotides—the building blocks of DNA—to a single-stranded DNA.

Seemingly random nucleotide sequences in a single DNA strand wouldn’t seem to
have much of a biological use—but materials scientists have figured out what
to do with it.

In a new paper, Duke University researchers build on their previous work and
now describe in detail how the TdT enzyme can produce precise, high molecular
weight, synthetic biomolecular structures much more easily than current
methods. Researchers can tailor synthesis to create single-stranded DNA that
self-assemble into ball-like containers for drug delivery or to incorporate
unnatural nucleotides to provide access to a wide range of medically useful
abilities.

The results appear online on May 15, 2017 in the journal Angewandte Chemie
International Edition.

“We’re the first to show how TdT can build highly controlled single strands of
DNA that can self-assemble into larger structures,” said Stefan Zauscher, the
Sternberg Family Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science at
Duke University. “Similar materials can already be made, but the process is
long and complicated, requiring multiple reactions. We can do it in a fraction
of the time in a single pot.”

TdT has advantage over typical, synthetic chain-building reactions in that it
continues to add nucleotides to the end of the growing chain as long as they
are available. This opens a vast design space to materials scientists.

Because the enzymes all work at the same pace and never stop, the resulting
strands of DNA are all very close in size to each other—an important trait for
controlling their mechanical properties. The never-ending process also means
that researchers can force-feed TdT any nucleotide they want—even unnatural
ones—simply by providing no other options.

“Your body makes strands of DNA out of only four nucleotides—adenine, guanine,
cytosine and uracil,” said Ashutosh Chilkoti, the Alan L. Kaganov Professor
and chair of the department of biomedical engineering at Duke. “But we can
create synthetic nucleotides and force the enzyme to incorporate them. This
opens many doors in making DNA-based polymers for different applications.”

For example, unnatural nucleotides can incorporate molecules designed to
facilitate “click chemistry”—enabling the attachment of a whole suite of
biomolecules. Researchers can also start the building process with a
foundation made of a specific DNA sequence, called an aptamer, which can
target specific proteins and cells.

“This enzyme has been around for decades, but this is the first time somebody
has mapped these concepts into a blueprint for synthesizing a whole new family
of polynucleotides,” said Zauscher. “In the past, biochemists have largely
been interested in what TdT does in the human immunological system and how it
does it. We don’t care about all of that, we’re just interested in what
material building blocks we can make with it. And the precision with which we
can make polymers with this enzyme is actually quite exceptional.”

This work was supported by the National Science Foundation (DMR-1411126 and
DMR-1121107).

“High Molecular Weight Polynucleotides by Transferase-Catalyzed Living Chain-
Growth Polycondensation.” Lei Tang, Luis A. Navarro Jr., Ashutosh Chilkoti,
and Stefan Zauscher. Angewandte Chemie, 2017. DOI: 10.1002/anie.201700991

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

