

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Teaching through Competition

May 1, 2020 | Miranda Volborth

Duke team launches a new multi-year effort to compete for the ANA Avatar
XPRIZE

Some engineers love attacking challenges that others dismiss as impossible.
Some like to dream about winning monster-sized prize purses worth millions of
dollars. Some simply want to take a shot at developing or refining technical
skills.

The XPRIZE Foundation offers all of these opportunities and more, by putting
forth a monumental challenge which, once solved, will enable a more positive
future. A sponsor supports each competition—there have been 17 of them to
date—by providing the prize purse and operational funding. The first XPRIZE
was the $10 million Ansari XPRIZE for private spaceflight, which birthed an
entire industry of private space tourism. Years later, the $20 million Shell
Ocean Exploration XPRIZE tasked teams with the ambitious challenge of mapping
the ocean floor.

XPRIZE competitions are a favorite teaching tool of Duke professor of
electrical and computer engineering (ECE) Martin Brooke, who along with Duke
ECE colleague Tyler Bletsch, led a student team that made it to the semi-
finals of the Ocean XPRIZE competition and split the $1 million purse with the
nine other teams who achieved the same level.

> The $10 million ANA Avatar XPRIZE competition aims to “create an avatar
> system that can transport human presence to a remote location in real time.”

This spring, Brooke’s Advanced Robotic System Design class was the launchpad
for another group of students ramping up to compete in Duke’s third multi-year
XPRIZE challenge: the ANA Avatar XPRIZE. The $10 million competition aims to
“create an avatar system that can transport human presence to a remote
location in real time.”

Imagine trekking to Denali and feeling the cold wind on your face and the
crunch of ice under your boot treads, without ever leaving your living room,
or visiting your grandfather on the other side of the world twice a week.
Or—in an application made painfully relevant by the current COVID-19
crisis—delivering lifesaving medical care during times of war or contagion,
without exposing yourself to danger. Those are the kinds of long-term
possibilities that the ANA Avatar XPRIZE competition is hoping to enable.

Brooke and his students partnered with the University of Illinois and VRotors,
LLC, and the resulting team is focused on creating a health care avatar.
Through collaboration with Duke School of Nursing’s Ryan Shaw, the Duke
contingent has access to a robot called TRINA— Tele-Robotic Intelligent
Nursing Assistant--that is used to develop future remote nursing applications
similar to the ones sought by the ANA Avatar XPRIZE competition.

At the beginning of the semester, the Duke students split into three groups to
work on different aspects of their avatar, called AVATRINA: motion planning, a
digital stethoscope, and smelling ability.

Motion planning, explained Estelle He ECE ’20, is about transforming a human’s
motions into corresponding motions in the robot. Her group of three students
found a Python implementation of some code they could use on Tensor Flow, a
platform for building and deploying machine learning models, but it was only a
starting point.

“The code gathers video from a computer camera and extracts points on the
human skeleton based on the video,” said He. “But what we actually need is the
coordinate of those points, so we have to dig through the code and change so
that it’s more customized to our uses.”

> “Motion planning matches the scales and transforms my motion into the
> robot’s action.”
>
> Estelle He ECE/cs '20

That’s because the robot is moving in 3D space, so an extra dimension—depth—is
requisite to controlling the avatar. “Maybe my elbow moves one centimeter, but
the robot’s elbow moves five centimeters, because of the difference in scale,”
said He. “Motion planning matches the scales and transforms my motion into the
robot’s action.”

Another group of three students—two PhD students and an undergraduate
mechanical engineering student —started working with TRINA to figure out how a
digital stethoscope might work in this kind of application. Their initial
challenge was that the instrument is made to be held and manipulated by a
human hand; the team had to design and 3D print an adapter for the robot’s
claw before the signal processing aspect of the work could even begin.

And then there’s the smell team, which began by trying to determine what kind
of sensors could be incorporated into the avatar to give it the ability to
recognize when food or medication has gone bad, or tissue infection has begun
to set in.

The teams are self-directed; prior to spring break, they met with Brooke once
a week and spent the remainder of their time building and coding. After spring
break and the implementation of physical distancing resulting from the threat
of Covid-19, students continued to meet weekly via Zoom. “The students got a
surprising amount done after the stay-at-home order,” Brooke said. While the
motion planning group focused more on the software and simulation portions of
its project, students on the smell and digital stethoscope teams had most of
their hardware with them and continued to work on their projects from their
homes.

> “There are no tests, no lectures. We just look for results.”
>
> Martin Brooke, Assoc. prof. of Electrical and Computer Engineering

“I teach a lot of design-oriented courses and its always challenging to come
up with good motivational projects,” said Brooke. “I’ve done every kind of
project and working with these big contests has been really successful.” He
said that’s in part because the challenges are so large and so broad that they
attract engineers from every discipline, forming teams that bring together
diverse knowledge and result in far-out approaches—and exceptional engineers.

“It’s a very different way to teach,” said Brooke. “There are no tests, no
lectures. We just look for results.”

More News from ECE

## Related News

March 07, 2018

### Duke Students Advance to Finals in $7 Million Ocean Discovery XPRIZE
Competition

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

