

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# 'Three Peas in the Pod' Demo Engineering Design Skills

April 3, 2019

Wary of the wire cutter? Clueless about the drill press? These Duke
Engineering First-Year Design students have you covered.

The Duke Engineering Design Pod is a 5,000-square-foot makerspace filled with
all kinds of useful tools—foam cutters, bandsaws, sewing machines, laser
cutters and more. Useful, that is, if you know how to use them.

For many of the freshmen enrolled in EGR 101, Duke Engineering’s First-Year
Design course, the equipment in the Pod, the Foundry, the Pratt Student Shop,
and other campus workshops can seem daunting. But to successfully complete the
course’s build-intensive design challenges and projects, they have to get up
to speed fast.

That’s where "Three Peas in the Pod" come in. Ashley Lanzas, Alexa Tannebaum
and Rebecca Leggett, sophomores who participated in the course’s pilot last
year, teamed up with EGR 101 instructors and Duke video producers Devon Henry
and Stephen Toback to create a series of instructional videos aimed at making
the equipment more accessible—and more fun.

_The Peas demonstrate how to suit up before using the wire cutter._

In 11 videos, the trio—or, in some cases, duo—demonstrate everything from
working with microcontrollers to woodworking, always with a focus on safety
and encouraging fellow students.

“We ask EGR 101 students to learn a lot of new skills as part of the course,
and if we can show them people like themselves who mastered the tools and used
them to make some cool projects, that can go a long way toward increasing
their confidence,” said Sophia Santillan, assistant professor of the practice
in mechanical engineering and materials science, who spearheaded the project.
“Alexa, Ashley and Becca did a great job teaching other students how to use
the tools, and the videos have been really well received.”

The Peas in the Pod videos are now required watching for first-year design
students prior to using certain tools, and are also available to the public on
Duke Engineering’s First-Year Design YouTube channel.

Click the icons below to see more.

  
_Video: Making quality videos_

  
__Video:_ Sewing machine_

  
__Video:_ Foam cutting_

  
__Video:_ Working with PVC_

  
__Video:_ Drill press_

  
__Video:_ Dremel rotary tool_

  
__Video:_ Woodworking_

  
__Video:_ Band saw_

  
__Video:_ Power sander_

  
__Video:_ Laser cutting  
_

  
__Video:_ Arduino microcontroller_

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

