

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Tingjun Chen: Connecting Tomorrow’s Wireless World

August 21, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

New faculty member Tingjun Chen is developing technologies, designing
algorithms and building systems that will enable next generation wireless
networks

Tingjun Chen will join the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
at Duke University beginning August 1, 2021. With an interest in future
wireless networks and Internet of Things (IoT) systems, Chen is working to
develop an array of emerging technologies to improve data rates and
reliability while lowering communication latency to enable a broad new class
of real-time applications such as augmented reality, autonomous vehicles and
smart intersections.

## Tingjun Chen

Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering (August 1, 2021)

**Hometown:** Shenzhen, China

**Alma Maters:** Tsinghua University, Columbia University

**Representative Publication:** T. Chen, M. Baraani Dastjerdi, J. Zhou, H.
Krishnaswamy, and G. Zussman, “Wideband Full-Duplex Wireless via Frequency-
Domain Equalization: Design and Experimentation,” in Proc. ACM MobiCom’19,
2019. ACM MobiCom’19 Student Research Competition (SRC) Winner – First Place.
DOI: 10.1145/3300061.3300138

**Fun Facts:** Sneaker collector (at least 60 Air Jordans), NBA and college
basketball fan, enjoys classical music and has played piano for 10+ years

“My work connects theory with practice, trying to develop algorithms and build
systems that take into account the unique characteristics of the underlying
technologies,” said Chen, who recently defended his PhD dissertation at
Columbia University under the mentorship of Gil Zussman, professor of
electrical engineering and director of the Wireless and Mobile Networking
(WiMNet) Lab. “This includes the rollout of 5G and beyond-5G systems featuring
ultra-high bandwidth and ultra-low latency, as well as the massive
connectivity between various kinds of IoT devices.”

Chen has been highly involved in the Rutgers-Columbia-NYU NSF PAWR COSMOS
project, which aims to develop and deploy a city-scale testbed for advanced
wireless technologies within the complex urban environment of West Harlem in
New York City.

“An emerging technology that can significantly improve wireless data rates is
millimeter-wave communications. While millimeter-wave signals can carry much
more information than the radio waves used by WiFi and LTE, they also lose
energy much more quickly over distance and have more trouble traveling through
obstacles,” said Chen. “In collaboration with IBM, We’re deploying several
first-of-their-kind programmable millimeter-wave radios, integrated with a
high-bandwidth optical network and powerful edge servers, throughout a one-
square-mile area of the city for researchers around the world to test their
ideas on. Because as the Sinatra song says, if you can make it there (in New
York City), you can make it anywhere.”

## WHY DUKE?

> "I really like Duke’s interdisciplinary focus from education to research and
> I look forward to fruitful collaborations across different fields. I’m also
> excited to bring various aspects of future wireless networks, which have
> become an inseparable part of our everyday life, to Duke and the Research
> Triangle Park."
>
> —Tingjun Chen

Most of the “smart” technologies that we use every day send data to cloud
servers, which process the information and send back results. These servers
can be hundreds of miles away from us, however, limiting how quickly answers
can be delivered. While this might suffice for smart speakers ordering
household goods online, other applications such as autonomous vehicles and
smart intersections need feedback as quickly as possible.

Much of Chen’s research focuses on improving data rates employing emerging
physical-layer technologies and bringing down these lag times for complex
computations. For example, edge-cloud computing refers to data processing at
the edge devices to provide results without having to send the data to a
centralized server cluster.

In another project, Chen seeks to build compact full-duplex radios. Current
radios only operate in half-full mode, sending and receiving information
either on separate frequency channels or in alternative time slots. Full-
duplex radios, however, can transmit and receive on a single frequency, which
can double the spectrum efficiency and reduce the communication latency at the
physical layer. But when radios try to do this, a huge amount of self-
interference—usually millions to trillions times stronger than the desired
signal—leaks from the transmitter into its receiver.

“It’s like when I’m speaking, I’m jamming my ears with my own voice,” said
Chen. “I have researched technologies and built compact full-duplex radios
that can subtract the self-interference signal so that the desired signal can
be successfully picked up. Our full-duplex radios have also been made open-
source and integrated in the open-access COSMOS testbed, and now researchers
from around the world are using this resource for research in this area.”

Chen is also working to achieve the highest possible data rates for ultra-low-
power IoT devices. One potential application is for active tags that can
harvest energy from the environment and communicate with one another. In an
environment like a smart supermarket or warehouse, a system featuring many
such devices could quickly identify and locate misplaced items and put them
back where they’re supposed to be.

While Chen has many collaborators that work on the hardware for these sorts of
technologies, he is primarily focused on the cross-layer aspects of future
wireless networks. That is, developing algorithms and building systems that
allow everyday devices to have faster radio access links and to run various
real-time applications.

In coming to Duke, Chen sees two unique resources that could potentially
further his work. One is the Duke Smart Home—a live-in laboratory where
students conduct long-term experiments in sustainability. Chen says the
gardens there might help him pursue a developing plan for in-ground, low-power
sensor networks for smart agriculture and farming applications. He’s also
eager to work with the Duke Office of Information Technology on various
wireless and optical systems.

“Duke has one of the largest campus networks in the United States,” said Chen.
“I’d be very excited to work with OIT to actually bring some of the emerging
wireless technologies I’m working on to Duke’s campus network.”

Once on campus, Chen won’t have any trouble getting around, seeing as his
sneaker collection features more than 60 Air Jordans. A big fan of the North
Carolina legend, as well as recent Duke star Zion Williamson, Chen is looking
forward to walking the storied halls of Cameron Indoor Stadium and watching
some marquee basketball matchups on campus.

“I just defended my PhD dissertation, and I’m about to start my postdoc
position working with Professors Leandros Tassiulas and Lin Zhong at Yale,”
said Chen. “I hope to branch out my research portfolio a little bit in the
time I have before I arrive at Duke. For example I’m learning how quantum
computers are controlled by microwave signals. That way, when I arrive I will
have more ideas on my research and who I can seek out for new collaborations.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

