

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Truskey Named Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of
Science

December 1, 2014

George Truskey was cited for excellence in research, teaching, service and
administration in biomedical engineering

George Truskey, the R. Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Professor of Biomedical
Engineering and senior associate dean for research at Duke University’s Pratt
School of Engineering, has been elected as a fellow of the American
Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS). With a long and
distinguished career spanning several key positions both inside and outside of
Duke, Truskey was cited for excellence in research, teaching, service and
administration in biomedical engineering.

Truskey’s research has long focused on the effect of physical forces on
cardiovascular cells and skeletal muscles in the human body. He has also
worked on the adhesion properties of endothelial cells that line the entire
circulatory system, which has led to development of new synthetic vascular
materials and new insights into regenerative medicine. More recently, he was
named as PI on a $3 million NIH grant to create integrated tissue chips for
testing pharmaceuticals.

Truskey has previously served as director of undergraduate studies in the
Biomedical Engineering Department. He helped develop the department’s course
in quantitative physiology that became required by all biomedical engineering
majors in 2012 and has taught many courses in transport phenomenon. He also
coauthored a textbook on biotransport with Professors Fan Yuan and David Katz
that has been adopted by a number of schools.

In administrative work, Truskey was the chair of the biomedical engineering
department at Duke for more than eight years, overseeing the department’s rise
in national rankings and growth in the faculty. Outside of Duke, he was the
president of the Biomedical Engineering Society during difficult and
transformative years between 2008 and 2010. Despite the recession, the society
saw a growth in membership and attendance at their annual meeting under
Truskey’s guidance.

“This honor is a broad-based recognition from colleagues in a number of fields
who thought my contributions were sufficient to be a fellow, and that is
really is quite an honor,” said Truskey. “And knowing some of the other AAAS
fellows at Duke, it is very nice company to be in, and I’m proud of that.”

Truskey will be inducted during the AAAS annual meeting taking place in San
Jose, Calif., on February 14, 2015. The AAAS is the world’s largest general
scientific society, and publisher of the journals Science, Science
Translational Medicine and Science Signaling. It was founded in 1848, and
includes some 262 affiliated societies and academies of science, serving 10
million individuals. The tradition of AAAS Fellows began in 1874.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

