

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Trying a New Pulse for Pain Relief

October 28, 2015 | By Kendall Morgan

CTSA-supported collaboration at Duke explores new spinal cord stimulation
message to improve treatment of chronic pain

_Originally posted on the Duke Translational Medicine Institute website_

For people with incurable chronic pain, a small device that periodically
stimulates the spinal cord with a small electric pulse can bring much needed
relief. But the implantable devices don’t work for everyone. And when they do
work, only about 60 percent of patients experience a halving of pain -- a
success rate that hasn’t budged in 40 years despite technological advances.

With support from the Duke CTSA through the Duke Translational Research
Institute (DTRI) Collaborative Pilot Award, Warren Grill, a professor of
Biomedical Engineering and Neurobiology, and Nandan Lad, a neurosurgeon, think
they can do better. The key, they say, is to reprogram the devices to deliver
pulses in a new way.

**A Model for Pain Relief**

Grill’s lab in the Department of Biomedical Engineering is focused on
innovative therapies using electrical stimulation of the nervous system. Lad,
too, is focused on medical innovation, driven in part by first-hand
experiences with the limitations of spinal cord stimulation technologies he
has seen through his patients. Their partnership began by looking at a simple
question: how does spinal cord stimulation work to relive pain?

“Spinal cord stimulation has been around for more than 40 years,” Grill said.
“Remarkably, people do not understand the underlying mechanism.”

To sort it out, the researchers developed a computational model to describe
the behavior of neurons in the spinal cord that are responsible for processing
pain. They showed that the model does a good job of reproducing published
experimental results in the literature, evidence that it reflects what
actually happens in the spinal cord’s pain networks. The model also led them
to a promising prediction: spinal cord stimulation could be improved by
changing the pattern and timing of pulses delivered to those pain neurons.

According to the model, neurons involved in the sensation of pain fire in a
way that depends heavily on the frequency with which spinal cord stimulation
is delivered. The model also suggests that changes in the way the devices are
programmed to deliver pulses would produce a more than 30 percent improvement
in pain control.

“In our innovative approach to spinal cord stimulation, what would change is
the type of stimulation delivered,” Grill explained. “You can almost think
about it as Morse code—a pattern of stimulation that from the data we expect
will do a better job at treating pain than conventional patterns have.”

Early indications from animal studies in the lab suggest their new approach to
spinal cord stimulation works as intended. Grill and Lad will begin recruiting
patients with existing spinal cord stimulators to test the new approach in the
coming weeks. The plan is to reprogram the devices some of Lad’s patients
already have, to see if a new pattern of pulses reduces their pain in the
expected way.

“There have been a lot of developments in hardware over the last several
decades,” Lad said. “Going forward, software will become increasingly
important. [The reprogrammed devices] will potentially use less energy and
have better pain efficacy compared to traditional stimulation. It will be
exciting to see how it works in patients.”

**Recipe for Success**

Grill and Lad have already filed two patent applications and they say these
first-in-human studies will facilitate the translation of their work into a
marketable product for the benefit of patients. Grill credits the geography of
Duke—with an engineering school across the street from the medical center and
hospital—and the DTRI-funding support for making it possible.

“This kind of funding is really critical because it allows us to translate
this innovation into humans very quickly—much faster than we might otherwise
be able to do,” Grill said. “Rather than having to go through a more
conventional funding route that’s slower with much lower success, we’re able
to rapidly take this from the computer and animal laboratory to an initial
feasibility trial in humans.

“I think of these small supplemental grants as fertilizer,” he added. “They
often produce an impact that is disproportionate to the dollars invested. They
are also really important in promoting partnerships between the medical center
and the campus.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

