

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Understanding How Energy Travels Through Turbulence

December 16, 2019

Theoretical and computational study shows that "eddies" squeezing themselves
are mostly responsible for transferring energy to smaller scales in turbulent
flows

_ByAndrew Bragg, professor of civil and environmental engineering_

While fluids can flow in a variety of ways, turbulence describes the extremely
complicated, chaotic motion that fluids frequently exhibit in natural and
engineered systems. The subject has attracted the interests of physicists,
mathematicians and engineers such as myself for many years, due both to the
great intellectual challenges it presents, and its profound relevance for
understanding and modeling atmospheric, oceanic, astrophysical and industrial
flows.

One key feature of turbulent flows is that they exhibit fluctuating motion
over a very wide range of scales, for example from millimeters to several
kilometers, or even larger. Sometimes these scales of motion are referred to
as “eddies.” Energy is typically injected into the flow at the large scales,
and is then on average passed down to the smallest scales of the flow where it
is dissipated by molecular viscosity. This process whereby energy is
transferred from the large injection scales to the small dissipation scales is
known as the “energy cascade.”

While the central importance of the energy cascade in turbulent flows has been
recognized for a long time, understanding the physical mechanisms by which
this cascade occurs has proved to be a very challenging problem. One of the
key ideas, perhaps first put forward by the legendary G.I. Taylor of Cambridge
University in 1932, is that the process of “vortex stretching” drives the
energy cascade.

In a turbulent flow, there are regions referred to as “vortex tubes,” wherein
the flow exhibits lots of rotating and swirling motion, without much
deformation—like a funnel of smoke swirling upward out of a campfire. There
are also “straining regions,” wherein the flow is being strongly deformed and
distorted. According to the vortex stretching idea, the straining regions of
the flow interact with and stretch the vortex tubes, and as they are
stretched, the cross-sectional area of the tubes contract to conserve angular
momentum. Due to this contraction, kinetic energy is transferred to smaller
scales in the turbulent flow, producing the energy cascade.

While this has remained the most popular explanation, over the years several
questions have been raised concerning its validity. One problem is that the
argument, while conceptually plausible, has not been demonstrated
mathematically. Furthermore, some have claimed to provide evidence that vortex
stretching actually hinders, rather than causes, the energy cascade.

In a new study, my PhD student Maurizio Carbone and I use a combination of
mathematical analysis, conceptual arguments, and high-performance computing to
demonstrate that vortex stretching, while contributing to the energy cascade,
is actually not the main mechanism driving this process.

We instead show that another non-linear process known as “strain self-
amplification” is the primary cause of the energy cascade. According to this
mechanism, the straining regions of the flow actually squeeze themselves
through a nonlinear self-interaction process. As they squeeze themselves, they
transfer energy down to smaller scales in the turbulent flow. Vortex
stretching makes an additional, distinct contribution to the energy cascade,
as predicted by G.I. Taylor, but its contribution is much smaller than that
coming from the process of strain self-amplification.

These new findings provide a much clearer and more precise understanding of
perhaps the most central process in turbulent flows—the energy cascade—and may
provide new insights for how the complexity should be modeled in fields such
as atmospheric, oceanic, astrophysical and industrial flows.

CITATION: “Is vortex stretching the main cause of the turbulent energy
cascade.” M Carbone and A.D. Bragg. Journal of Fluid Mechanics, 2019. DOI:
10.1017/jfm.2019.923

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

