

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Nerve Stimulation in Mice Suggests New Way to Reduce Delirium After Surgery

October 11, 2018 | by Samiha Khanna

Vagus nerve stimulation reduced inflammation and restored cognitive function
after injury

_From Duke Health  
_

For adults over age 65, surgical complications can dampen not only their
physical health but also their mental sharpness, with more than half of high-
risk cases declining into delirium.

In research published this week in the journal Brain Stimulation, Duke
University scientists show in a mouse model that a current treatment for
seizures can also reverse brain inflammation, such as inflammation after
surgery, and the subsequent confusion or cognitive decline that results.

The therapy involves minimally invasive stimulation of the vagus nerve using
small electrical pulses comparable to a cell phone's vibrations.

The scientists used a Doppler ultrasound to guide the placement of a needle
that delivers the electrical pulse, avoiding nearby delicate structures such
as the carotid artery. Researchers hope to refine the technique into a
completely non-invasive approach to preventing cognitive decline when seniors
and other at-risk patients have surgery.

"Delirium is now recognized as the most common complication in older adults
after surgery," said Niccolò Terrando, associate professor of anesthesiology
at Duke and the study's senior author. "For most patients, it lasts a few days
and resolves on its own. For some, it can lead to severe complications and
even contribute to long-lasting cognitive deficits, like dementia."

Terrando noted that these cognitive complications have a huge impact on
quality of life and can be expensive, with health care costs for delirium
reaching $164 billion a year according to the American Society of
Anesthesiologists.

> "This minimally invasive approach is already exceedingly benign, but in the
> long term it would be desirable to have an entirely non-invasive approach
> and we are beginning that work." —Warren Grill

"So far, there is no therapy for this kind of cognitive complication after
surgery," Terrando said. Anti-inflammatory drugs have many side effects and
work broadly, he said, and they don't adequately target the inflammation in
the brain that scientists believe triggers cognitive complications.

The vagus nerve helps the brain communicate with the heart, lungs, gut and
other parts of the body. Vagus nerve stimulators have been surgically
implanted in epilepsy patients for more than 20 years to reduce seizures.

In recent years, U.S. doctors have also prescribed at-home, non-invasive
stimulators for severe headaches. However, there is not substantial evidence
that the devices are stimulating the vagus nerve and not other structures near
it, said Warren M. Grill, professor of biomedical engineering at Duke.

For the experimental model, mice with inflammation received one nerve-
stimulating treatment lasting several minutes. The researchers monitored for
signs of vagus nerve activation, such as a slower heart rate and twitching of
muscles around the larynx, and found improved cognitive outcomes and reduced
brain inflammation after this treatment.

"This minimally invasive approach is already exceedingly benign, but in the
long term it would be desirable to have an entirely non-invasive approach and
we are beginning that work," Grill said.

In addition to Terrando and Grill, study authors include William J. Huffman,
Saraswathi Subramaniyan, Ramona M. Rodriguiz, and William C. Wetsel.

The research was supported by the Duke Institute for Brain Sciences Incubator
Award (2016-18), a Duke University School of Medicine voucher for studies
conducted in the Mouse Behavioral and Neuroendocrine Analysis Core Facility
(#1163), and by the National Institutes of Health R01AG057525 and
R21AG05587701A1. The researchers disclosed no financial conflicts related to
this work.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

