

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Sophisticated Modeling Boosts Split Ventilators to Emergency FDA Review

September 3, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

Duke engineers and clinicians devise a system for ensuring patients receive
just the right amount of air

Researchers at Duke University have engineered a workaround to make
ventilators safer and more efficient when splitting them between patients.

With a set of biocompatible 3D-printed parts to control the amount of air
being pushed to each patient and hundreds of thousands of hours of complex
computer simulations to decide which of those parts to use, the innovative
system has been submitted for emergency FDA approval for use.

“One of the early needs to emerge during the pandemic was the need to
ventilate patients, and the volume of ventilators needed has stressed many
cities around the world,” said Muath Bishawi, a resident in cardiac surgery
pursuing a PhD in biomedical engineering at Duke. “One strategy to meeting
this demand is using T or Y connectors to put two patients on one ventilator,
which technically should work, but comes with its own challenges. We wanted a
system that, if it were ever needed at Duke or anywhere else, could restore
some of the ventilator’s patient-specific features.”

A ventilator is a complex machine that pushes air into a patient’s lungs at
specific pressures, volumes, respiration rates and oxygen levels. It typically
interacts with the patient it is supporting, automatically sensing if it is
providing air volumes that could cause injuries or if a patient begins
breathing on their own.

But when a ventilator is split between multiple patients, it loses a lot of
its safety alarms and metrics because it can no longer sense and respond to a
single patient. It becomes a much dumber machine that does a single task—push
oxygen-rich air through a tube at whatever rate the medical staff sets it at.

This presents a problem when different patients have different respiration
requirements.

“Think of two balloons, one with a thick wall and the other with a thin wall.
If you try to inflate both with the same level of effort, the thin-walled
balloon is going to get much larger,” said Bishawi. “This is the same
challenge faced with patients’ lungs. They have different levels of
compliance. The same filling pressure of air that is perfect for one might not
be enough for someone else or might even overinflate their lungs.”

One solution, then, is to find a way to tailor the airflow for each patient
without having to rely on the ventilator to do the heavy lifting. That’s where
Bishawi’s training as an engineer kicked in.

**Thinking Like an Engineer**

Earlier in his medical career, Bishawi took part in an experimental class
designed to bring students together from all corners of Duke to explore
solutions for unmet clinical needs. Students spend time watching clinicians
work, ask questions about how and why certain things are done, brainstorm
shortcomings that might be ripe for an entrepreneurial solution, and then get
to work on designing, prototyping, completing market research and implementing
a business plan.

That class was a precursor to what has now become the Duke Design Health
Fellows program, of which Bishawi is now an advisor.

“I’ve basically been a clinician supported to live in and breathe an
engineering world for the past four years,” said Bishawi, who has recently
successfully defended his PhD thesis. “I know our engineers, what their
capabilities are and how to speak the language. This program and others
between the medical and engineering school are what have allowed this project
to take off so quickly and at such a high level.”

Putting on his engineering cap, Bishawi came up with an idea to help restore
some of the personalized functionality of a ventilator when it’s split between
two patients. He wondered about using resistors that can restrict airflow,
ensuring each patient is receiving the proper amount of pressure. This idea
was inspired by what he learned about flow and resistance from his PhD advisor
George Truskey, a world expert on fluid flow, and whose course he took years
before. But to ever be useful in a clinical setting, health care providers
would have to know with confidence which restrictors should be used with each
patient.

**Spending a Weekend in the Cloud**

To help solve this challenging problem, Bishawi turned to an engineer he had
worked with on a previous project, Amanda Randles, the Alfred Winborne and
Victoria Stover Mordecai Assistant Professor of Biomedical Sciences at Duke.
Randles has spent the past decade developing a highly parallel computing
algorithm capable of simulating blood flow on a cellular level. But air is a
liquid too, so Bishawi asked if she could adapt her program to simulate air
flow through a ventilator and patients’ lungs with different levels of
compliance.

Randles got to work with Michael Kaplan, a medical student working in her
laboratory, and Simba Chidyagwai, a PhD candidate in her laboratory. The
catch: They would need 500,000 hours of runtime on one of the largest cloud
servers in the world to solve the problem.

“I reached out to Duke’s Office of Information Technology to see if they could
help me find the computational power to pull this off,” said Randles. “That
was on a Wednesday.” Within 48 hours, they had secured the time on Microsoft
Azure, whose support team worked with Randles’ team through a weekend making
sure the runs went smoothly. “You really need established relationships and
trust to make that happen,” she said.

At the same time, Bishawi reached out to Ken Gall, associate dean for
entrepreneurship at Duke Engineering, for help with figuring out how to
3D-print resistor pieces that meet the biocompatibility, toxicology and design
standards required. Gall, in turn, connected Bishawi with one of his Durham-
based startup companies, restor3d, which works with surgeons to improve the
reconstruction and repair of the human body through metal and polymer
3D-printed implants with enhanced anatomical fit and superior integrative
properties.

With the help of Nathan Evans, Michael Kim and Rajib Shaha at restor3d, the
growing collaboration rapidly produced prototypes for different scenarios and
came up with tentative protocols for using them. The devices were produced on
low-cost, benchtop machines which utilize a form of 3D printing known as
stereolithography (SLA). They also produced a series of prototypes and tested
them on ICU ventilators as well as operating room ventilators. Also helping
with this effort was a group of Duke anesthesiologists, including David
MacLeod and Anne Cherry, as well as respiratory therapist Jhaymie Cappiello.

Duke is making the data and specifications freely available to hospitals
facing ventilator shortages due to the COVID-19 pandemic. If a hospital has
access to fabrication facilities and an operational quality system, they will
be able to use the specifications to build the product for their own internal
use. Alternatively, once emergency FDA approval is granted, restor3d will have
capacity to provide products for hospital systems that do not have their own
internal capabilities.

“This clinical team was phenomenal,” said Bishawi. “We met multiple times a
week for a few weeks and completed a series of sophisticated testing to
develop clinically relevant test data to both validate the model and provide
clinicians with important data on safety features.”

After settling on a design, the group then turned to Corey Campbell from
Legend Technical Services, who completed biocompatibility testing for free,
and William Wustenberg, DVM, president of Mycroft Medical LLC, who completed
the toxicology risk assessment, also free of charge.

**There’s an App for That**

With tested devices and thoroughly vetted data on how best to use them, all
that was left was to get the information out to those who need it. And thanks
to Don Shin, chief technical officer at CrossComm, there’s now an app for
that.

“We wanted to make this tool as safe and user friendly as possible,” said
Bishawi. “CrossComm developed a beautiful app that uses the computer model
data to make sure the ventilator splitters and resistors are easy to use.”

Roughly 100 terabytes of computational data computed on the Microsoft cloud
network was distilled into a chart just a few gigabytes large that can be
accessed by the app. Clinicians simply put in the required data about their
patients and ventilators, and the app spits out the best combination of
resistors to use to ensure both are receiving the correct amount of air.
Because the calculations have already been done, the response time is
immediate. And because the app draws from data kept on the cloud, the team can
update their charts as more data becomes available and users begin to provide
feedback.

Now FDA clearance is needed for hospitals to begin using the innovation. To
help spread the word, the collaboration worked with Duke’s Office of Licensing
and Ventures, which helped patent the technology and app that will soon be
freely available to anyone who needs it during the pandemic.

“Duke is lucky in that we haven’t had to resort to splitting ventilators,”
said Bishawi. “But we still might, so this is nice to have in our back pocket.
And there are plenty of other hospitals around the world who might need our
technology to help save lives. This is a last ditch effort when it is
deployed, but that doesn’t mean it has to be without data, or a best effort to
make it safer. This was our goal of doing this.”

## Related News

June 01, 2020

### Engineering Student Works with Team Designing Isolation Chamber for
COVID-19 Patients

April 30, 2020

### COVID-19 Engineering Response Team Assembles from Every Corner of Duke

April 27, 2020

### Duke Engineers Adapt Rapid Testing Platform to See If It Can Catch
COVID-19

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

