

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Verma Wins 2019 Marshall Scholarship

December 3, 2018

With an education steeped in novel solutions for solar energy production,
Shomik Verma is the fifth Duke engineer to win the prestigious scholarship,
and the first since 2011

Shomik Verma, a senior studying mechanical engineering at Duke University’s
Pratt School of Engineering, has been named one of this year’s 48 recipients
chosen of the prestigious Marshall Scholarship.

Along with Julie Uchitel, a neuroscience and French double major at Duke, the
two were chosen from among more than 1,000 applicants throughout the country
and are the 28th and 29th Marshall recipients from Duke. Verma is the fifth
Duke engineering student to earn the honor, and the first since 2011.

Approximately 40 Marshall Scholarships are awarded each year to high-achieving
American students to pursue post-graduate studies at any university in the UK
in any field. The award covers all university fees, cost-of-living expenses
and many other costs.

“On behalf of the entire university community, I am delighted to congratulate
Julie and Shomik on this great honor, which reflects their truly exceptional
work at Duke,” said Duke President Vincent E. Price. “Throughout their time
here, they have contributed not only in the classroom and lab but also through
public service, cultural engagement and residential leadership. The Marshall
Scholarship’s mission is to identify and support future leaders, and I am
confident that Julie and Shomik’s experience at Cambridge University will
prepare them for excellence in their chosen fields.”

“Shomik stands out among our student organizations’ leadership as being one of
the most responsible, involved and passionate leaders that I have seen in over
a decade with dozens of student groups each year,” said Linda Franzoni,
associate dean for undergraduate education at the Pratt School of Engineering.
“And with an intentional, cohesive plan for using the technical skills and
knowledge he would acquire in college to lower the world’s reliance on fossil
fuels, he is also the ‘poster child’ for what our National Academy of
Engineering Grand Challenge Scholar Program is intended to accomplish.”

Verma has previously been selected for a Goldwater Scholarship and a Udall
Scholarship. Faculty have chosen Verma to be both a Grand Challenge Scholar
and a Pratt Fellow, honors that offer extensive lab experience. He was also
elected to Tau Beta Pi and serves as co-president of Pi Tau Sigma.

For his Pratt Fellowship, Verma is working with Nico Hotz, assistant professor
of the practice in mechanical engineering, on using solar thermal energy for
hydrogen production. His research has focused on modeling, fabricating and
testing a concentrated solar collector for dry methane reforming, the process
of reacting methane with carbon dioxide to produce hydrogen. He has pursued
further research in hydrogen as co-president and technical lead of the Duke
Electric Vehicles team, building a hydrogen fuel cell car and leading a Duke
student team to a Guinness World Record for the most fuel-efficient human-
carrying vehicle ever built.

The Duke Electric Vehicles team also received top prizes at the 2018 Shell
Vehicle Eco-Marathon: first place in both the Hydrogen Fuel Cell and Battery
Electric Prototype categories, as well as a Technical Innovation Award for
their supercapacitor storage system.

Verma is also president of the Duke Energy Club, through which he has worked
with Duke’s Energy Initiative to create three new assistantships for students
to do energy research with faculty, and is co-president of the Duke Smart
Home, a living-learning community where residents live in a LEED platinum
building and work on technological solutions to sustainability issues. He has
also been involved with Duke’s Solar Spring Break program that takes
undergraduates to underserved communities to install solar panels.

“At Duke, I’ve had the wonderful opportunity to ‘live the science’ through
various hands-on experiences,” said Verma. “Whether it’s living at the Smart
Home, installing solar panels or building high-efficiency vehicles, I’ve seen
first-hand the benefits novel energy technologies can have on the environment
and human health. Seeing these real-world applications motivates me to pursue
a research career to develop innovative solutions to energy challenges.”

Skilled in playing an Indian classical drum called the tabla, Verma has worked
to increase the visibility of Duke’s South Asian music group, Sangeet, on
campus. This effort led to their first-ever performance in Duke Chapel during
a Diwali service in fall of 2017.

Fascinated by the potential of renewable energy technologies to radically
reduce human impact on the environment, Verma will join the lab of Dr. Rachel
Evans at Cambridge University to pursue his near-term objective of developing
novel materials that increase the efficiency of solar photovoltaic cells.

“When I first received the call that I was selected as a Marshall Scholar, I
was in utter disbelief,” Verma said. “I had to check my phone’s call history
several times to make sure I didn’t dream the whole thing! I’m so thankful for
the support of my family, friends and advisors, and I’m beyond excited to
spend the next two years in the UK working on developing the next generation
of solar technology.”

Marshall Scholarships were established in 1953 by the British government to
honor the ideals of the Marshall Plan and the special US/UK relationship.

A list of this year's recipients is available online.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

