

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Veveakis Wins National Science Foundation CAREER Award

June 28, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

Prestigious five-year award will help uncover the hidden warning signs of
impending geological disasters

Manolis Veveakis, assistant professor of civil and environmental engineering
at Duke University, has won a prestigious National Science Foundation Faculty
Early Career Development (CAREER) Award. The award supports outstanding young
faculty members in their efforts to build a successful research enterprise.

For the next five years, the $580,000 award will support Veveakis’s ambitious
goal of developing an entirely new framework for modeling large-scale
geological hazards. By developing a deep understanding of how various small-
scale phenomena such as micro-fracturing, chemical alterations and phase
transitions dissipate energy, Veveakis aims to be able to understand large-
scale disasters such as sinkholes, landslides and earthquakes.

“My lifelong goal is to predict and mitigate man-made and natural geohazards
by developing modeling frameworks and monitoring protocols that can
revolutionize the ﬁeld,” said Veveakis. “This is indeed an ambitious idea,
which can be seen as a natural extension of my work in its entirety.”

Geohazards, both natural and manmade, cause a wide range of catastrophes such
as landslides, debris and mudﬂows, sinkholes, over-pressurized under-ground
zones, barriers and disposal sites, volcanoes, and earthquakes. They often
lead to devastating casualties and infrastructure damage and remain largely
unpredictable. Not only do they evolve at very long time scales over hundreds
of meters of space, they are also prone to microstructural changes in a wide
range of unstable materials like clays and sandstones and extreme conditions
involving high heat, pressure and levels of chemically active ﬂuids.

Existing research in the area has tended to focus on mechanical micro-scale
phenomena such as grain size and its evolution under such conditions. However,
Veveakis is proposing a new approach that instead focuses on how—and how
much—these many various processes dissipate energy.

This challenging approach will begin in the laboratory, where Veveakis and his
laboratory will push small, synthetic, homogenous mineral samples to their
limits in a variety of conditions to probe the routes it uses to dissipate
energy. They will then use that knowledge to create a model that can predict
how the material will react in large-scale scenarios and indicate variables
the researchers can monitor to watch for imminent failure. If successful,
researchers can then use this framework to create similar models for many
different geological materials under a variety of long-term loading
conditions.

The idea grows from Veveakis’s current work with the slow-moving El Forn
landslide in the mountains of Andorra. Previous research has indicated that
the temperature of a relatively thin layer of clay within the mountains is a
crucial indicator of potential imminent danger for nearby towns. With the new
research program, Veveakis plans to create more extensive models that can be
applied to many more types of geological hazards and provide these kinds of
insights and warning signs.

“The same work will be able to be used for any macro-scale geohazard, as the
predictive framework we are trying to develop is of fundamental nature,
describing the response of rocks in any possible hazardous scenario involving
material failure,” said Veveakis. “Our biggest challenges are developing the
experimental apparatus to measure internal dissipative variables in a failing
sample and then finding the dependence of these mechanisms on the size of the
sample. When crossing length- and time- scales, the biggest challenge is
always to extract the scaling laws that make the small-scale experiments
meaningful for large-scale applications.”

The research approach will be combined with the development of innovative
educational tools, including a 3D-interactive simulator for geohazards that
will be used as a virtual lab. This step includes the development of
artificial intelligence algorithms for data processing and open-source 3D
interactive visualization tools, which will be used as a tool for broad
outreach and dissemination. In the duration of this project, the virtual lab
will be equipped with two case studies—the El Forn landslide and the
catastrophic landslide of Vajont, which caused the loss of nearly 2,000
people.

## Related News

June 15, 2020

### Taking a Landslide’s Temperature to Avert Catastrophe

January 17, 2020

### ‘Melting Rock’ Models Predict Mechanical Origins of Earthquakes

October 24, 2017

### Manolis Veveakis: Cracking Geophysical Enigmas Worldwide

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

