

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Virtual Reality Blood Flow Simulation To Improve Cardiovascular
Interventions

May 13, 2020 | By Ken Kingery

3D interface provides cellular-level, full-body blood flow modeling to study
and treat cardiovascular disease

Biomedical engineers at Duke University are developing a massive fluid
dynamics simulator that can model blood flow through the full human arterial
system at subcellular resolution. One of the goals of the effort is to provide
doctors with guidance in their treatment plans by allowing them to simulate a
patient’s specific vasculature and accurately predict how decisions such as
stent placement, conduit insertions and other geometric alterations to blood
flow will affect surgical outcomes.

One of the largest barriers to clinical adoption however, is developing a user
interface that allows clinicians to easily explore their options without
needing any expertise in computer science. As any programmer will tell you,
designing a smooth, intuitive interface that people from all types of
backgrounds can quickly master is a tall task.

In a new study published on May 7 in the Journal of Computational Science, the
Duke researchers report on their initial foray into creating a user interface
for their blood flow simulation tool called HARVEY. They explored various
interfaces ranging from standard desktop displays to immersive virtual reality
experiences and found that, while users might be comfortable using a standard
mouse and keyboard, some more futuristic interfaces might hold the key to
widespread adoption.

“HARVEY currently requires knowledge of C coding and command line interfaces,
which really limits who can use the program,” said Amanda Randles, the Alfred
Winborne and Victoria Stover Mordecai Assistant Professor of Biomedical
Sciences at Duke. “This paper introduces a graphical user interface we’ve
developed called Harvis, so that anybody can use Harvey, whether they’re
surgeons trying to figure out the best placement for a stent or biomedical
researchers trying to design a new type of stent altogether.”

Randles has been developing the HARVEY code for nearly a decade, having begun
the work as a doctoral student in the research group of Efthimios Kaxiras, the
John Hasbrouck Van Vleck Professor of Pure and Applied Physics at Harvard
University. In that time, she has demonstrated that HARVEY can accurately
model blood flow through patient-specific aortas and other vascular geometries
on longer scales. She’s also shown the program can model 3D blood flows on the
scale of the full human body.

Putting HARVEY to work, Randles has helped researchers understand stent
treatment of cerebral aneurysms and the growth of aneurysms. She has created a
quick, noninvasive way to check for peripheral arterial disease, and to better
understand how circulating cancer cells adhere to different tissues. With
steady progress on the computational abilities of the code and demonstrated
usefulness in real-world applications, Randles is now working to make sure
others can make the best use of its abilities.

“As cardiovascular disease continues to be the number one cause of death in
the US, the ability to improve treatment planning and outcome remains a
significant challenge,” said Randles. “With the maturity and availability of
VR/AR devices, we need to understand the role these technologies can play in
the interaction with such data. This research is a much-needed step for
developing future software to combat cardiovascular disease.”

In the new study, Randles and her biomedical engineering colleagues, research
associate Harvey Shi and graduate student Jeff Ames, put the Harvis interface
they’ve been developing to the test. They asked medical students and
biomedical researchers to simulate three different situations — placing a
conduit between two blood vessels, expanding or shrinking the size of a blood
vessel, or placing a stent within a blood vessel. The test users attempted
these tasks using either a standard mouse and computer screen, a “Z-space”
semi-immersive virtual reality device, or a fully immersive virtual reality
experience with an HTC Vive display device.

The results show that the students and researchers could use the standard
mouse and keyboard interface and the fully immersive VR interface equally as
well in a majority of cases both quantitatively and qualitatively. The semi-
immersive display, basically a special pointing tool combined with a monitor
and 3D glasses, however, ranked behind the other two devices, as the users had
some issues adjusting to the unique hardware setup and controls.

The study also presents a generalizable design architecture for other
simulated workflows, laying out a detailed description of the rationale for
the design of Harvis, which can be extended to similar platforms.

While the study did not find any major differences between the most and least
immersive interfaces in terms of quality and efficiency, Randles did notice a
major difference between the users’ reactions to the equipment.

“People enjoyed the 3D interface more,” said Randles. “And if they enjoyed it
more, they’re more likely to actually use it. It could also be a fun and
exciting way to get students engaged in classes about the vasculature system
and hemodynamics.”

Randles says she plans on running experiments to see if her 3D blood flow
interface can help medical students retain important knowledge better than
current standards. In the future, tools like this could assist with treatment
planning such as placements of stents using a more intuitive virtual reality
interface. Randles also expects these types of tools will facilitate
biomedical research in the personalized flow space.

CITATION: “Harvis: An Interactive Virtual Reality Tool For Hemodynamic
Modification And Simulation,” Harvey Shi, Jeff Ames, Amanda Randles. Journal
of Comp. Sci., 2020. DOI: 10.1016/j.jocs.2020.101091

## Related News

July 05, 2018

### Randles Selected to Help Pilot First U.S. Exascale Computer

May 02, 2018

### Randles Wins 2017 ACM Grace Murray Hopper Award

August 27, 2015

### Randles Named Finalist for Supercomputing’s Top Honor

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

