

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Water Bottles: Canceled

June 26, 2020

CEE PhD student Imari Walker Karega wants the public to understand why
environmental engineering research is important to daily life

Imari Walker Karega worries over the plastic water bottle you’re drinking
from.

“The biggest concern is that you don’t know where that bottle of water has
been before it ends up in your hand,” said Walker. “It could have been sitting
in a warehouse or the back of a truck, in the heat—which speeds the plastic’s
disintegration—for a long time. I worry about the chemicals and the
microplastics that could be in there when you consume the water. And then
we’re also polluting the environment with the empty bottle. It’s a double
whammy.”

> “The biggest concern is that you don’t know where that bottle of water has
> been before it ends up in your hand. It could have been sitting in a
> warehouse or the back of a truck, in the heat—which speeds the plastic’s
> disintegration—for a long time."
>
> Imari Walker Karega, Duke Civil and Environmental engineering PHD Student

Walker, who earned an undergraduate degree in marine science from the
University of California–Berkeley, is rising fifth-year PhD student in the lab
of Duke environmental engineer Lee Ferguson, and she studies the fate of
plastic components as they break down and disperse in the environment. Part of
her dissertation work is conducted at the mesocosm in Duke Forest, where she
doses a simulated wetland ecosystem with microplastics to discover where they
will eventually settle out. The water is full of the UV inhibitors that are
added to plastic during the manufacturing process, said Walker, and the fish
see the tiny bits of plastic as tasty prey, gobbling it down.

According to Walker, the environment inside an animal’s stomach can cause some
harmful chemicals to be released at higher concentrations than they would in
seawater. Walker has used non-target mass spectrometry, a form of chemical
forensic science, to find that high concentrations of surfactants, lubricants
and biocides leach from plastic items commonly found on beaches, including
balloons, trash bags, Styrofoam cups, and fishing line.

We know that some of these plastic additives can affect your health—like BPA,
which can bind to estrogen receptors and influence bodily processes. The
effects of hundreds of other plastic additives are still unknown. But Walker
acknowledges the difficulty in making recommendations for alternatives—like
reverse osmotic filtration systems in place of plastic bottles—when they are
often expensive. “’Environmentally friendly’ is not cost-effective,” said
Walker. “It’s elitist, in a way, and it’s hard to encourage people to do good
things when they’re not accessible.”

Walker launched a Youtube channel where she delves into the topics she
studies, including water quality and chemical exposure from consumer products.
But the videos are not geared toward other scientists—instead, they’re
produced for a broad range of ages and knowledge levels. “I feel like we
researchers have been living in a little bit of a bubble when we go into our
labs and interact mostly with other researchers,” she said. “The public needs
to understand what environmental engineering is, what a researcher does, what
our findings are and what the implications are for daily life.”

She also talks a lot about higher education, paying special attention to
people in their teens who might be thinking about college. (In recent years
she also served as a mentor for SENSOR Saturday Academy, which helps
underrepresented Durham middle school students explore STEM through real-life
water quality projects.)

“For me personally, it’s important to communicate this work in a public-facing
way because I didn’t see many black female environmental engineers—I’ve only
met two or three, ever,” said Walker. “I wanted to be that change and inspire
others to think about this field.”

More News from Duke CEE

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

