

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Multicolor Holography Technology Could Enable Extremely Compact 3D Displays

January 24, 2019

Lens-free holography method could bring color 3D displays to augmented reality
glasses and smartphones

_From The Optical Society of America_

Researchers have developed a new approach to multicolor holography that could
be used to make 3D color displays for augmented reality glasses, smartphones
or heads-up displays without any bulky optical components.

In a paper pubilshed in Optica on January 24, researchers from Duke University
describe how they encoded a multicolor image onto a 300-by-300 micron hologram
in a 2D waveguide structure, a very thin structure that guides light. The
computer-generated hologram produces complex multicolor holographic images
when the grating coupler is illuminated by red, green and blue light.

"The hologram could be embossed directly onto the lenses of augmented reality
glasses to project an image directly into the pupil of the eye without
requiring any bulky lenses, beam splitters or prisms," said Daniel L. Marks, a
member of the research team. "It could also be used to project a 3D image from
a smartphone onto a wall or nearby surface."

The new fabrication method encodes holograms in a material that is compatible
with integrated photonics technology. This means that the holographic devices
are easy to mass manufacture with the same fabrication methods used to make
computer chips. The hologram producing elements could be incorporated into
tiny chip-based devices that also house the light sources required to create
the 3D images.

## From one color to three

The new multicolor holography technique is based on computer-generated
holograms. Unlike traditional holography, which requires a physical object and
laser beams to create the interference pattern necessary to form a holographic
image, computer-generated holography generates interference patterns
digitally.

Computer generated holograms provide high-resolution 3D images, but it has
proven difficult to create them in more than one color. The Duke team overcame
this challenge by fabricating a grating — a series of fringes —and a binary
hologram in a waveguide made of a light-sensitive material known as
photoresist. They developed a way to integrate the interference patterns for
red, green and blue into a single binary hologram pattern.

"One of the difficult parts of making a multicolor display is combining the
colors and then precisely separating them to generate a full color image,"
said Zhiqin Huang, first author of the paper. "With our approach this is all
done all in one step on a single surface without any beam splitters or prisms.
This makes it extremely amenable to integration into portable devices."

Another important achievement was creating the holographic device in a
waveguide structure. "Others who have tried to create multicolor computer-
generated holograms didn't use a waveguide, which makes it a challenge to
integrate the structure into a device," said David R. Smith, leader of the
research team. "Our design offers easier and more flexible integration with a
form factor small enough for augmented reality and other displays."

## Single-step color images

The researchers used their new holography method to encode interference
patterns for static multicolor holograms of an apple, a flower and a bird. The
resulting holographic images all matched well with theoretical predictions.
Although they fabricated very small holograms for the demonstration, the
researchers say that the technique could be easily scaled up to create larger
displays. They also believe their approach could be incorporated with existing
technologies — such as those used to make liquid crystal displays — to create
dynamic images.

The researchers are now working to optimize the technology by reducing the
light lost by the structures that encode the holograms. They also point out
that incorporating the structures into a single integrated device with lasers
would be necessary to make the technique practical.

CITATION: Z. Huang, D. L. Marks, D. R. Smith, “Out-of-Plane Computer-Generated
Multicolor Waveguide Holography,” _Optica_ , 6, 2, 119-124 (2019).  
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1364/OPTICA.6.000119

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

