

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Weapons of Mass Congestion: Protection from Influenza Virus Through Gene
Control

October 18, 2019

Duke's new Center for Advanced Genomic Technologies was recently awarded more
than $2 million in funding to explore gene targets that influence influenza
infection

_This story was originally published on the Duke Center for Genomic and
Computational Biology site._

We’ve all had dreams of having superpowers. Maybe you’ve wished you could fly,
have x-ray vision, read minds or teleport. While those dreams may never become
reality, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) is hoping to
give people a different kind of superpower: protection from potentially lethal
health threats. And the Duke Center for Advanced Genomic Technologies will
help.

DARPA awarded a $21.9 million-dollar grant for a multifaceted research effort
aimed at temporarily regulating gene expression using RNA-based techniques
that could help protect against pandemic flu by boosting lung resistance to
the virus, attacking the virus directly, enhancing the immune system response
and improving the effects of existing vaccines. This is part of DARPA’s
PREPARE (Preemptive Expression of Protective Alleles and Response Elements)
initiative and, if successful, could initially be used to help soldiers
deployed in areas where the influenza virus could be used as a biological
weapon.

The effort will be led by the Georgia Institute of Technology and will include
teams from Duke, Emory University, University of Louisiana, Rockefeller
University and Acorda Therapeutics. The multidisciplinary Duke team, comprised
of Charlie Gersbach, Greg Crawford, Tim Reddy, Xiling Shen and Nick Heaton,
will receive $2.5 million over the next four years. Funding will support
efforts to find new gene targets that mediate influenza infection and develop
programmable epigenome editors that regulate those targets in a controlled and
predictable fashion.

If the team can figure out how to alter soldiers’ epigenomes to protect their
stem cells and boost their immunities against the flu, using the influenza
virus as a biological weapon won’t work. And by editing the epigenome, the
changes are transient – not permanent alterations to the genome sequence – so
these changes would only last for a couple of weeks or months.

Imagine Popeye: With one can of spinach, he gains superhuman strength that
lasts long enough for him to defeat his foe, but by the start of the next
episode, he’s back to normal strength. In real life, a CRISPR system could be
delivered into the body through a nebulizer or inhaler, enter the right cells
and change gene levels by inactivating RNA transcripts or manipulating the
epigenome. Nanoparticles would go in, deliver CRISPR and after the CRISPR
system degrades, everything would revert back to normal.

At Duke, Heaton will perform a series of genetic screens to identify host
genes that when either suppressed or activated will protect cells from the flu
virus. Gersbach will develop the CRISPR systems needed to modify the
epigenome, and Reddy and Crawford will use their expertise in high-throughput
epigenomic profiling methods to survey the genome-wide analysis specificity of
these CRISPR tools. Shen will develop lung organoid technologies to test these
approaches in cultured miniature tissues. These lung organoids will mimic a
human lung for testing specific perturbations to gene elements that may
prevent an influenza infection and progression.

“The Duke Center for Advanced Genomic Technologies was started this year to
facilitate the discovery of methods to improve human health with next-
generation tools and methods,” said Charlie Gersbach, Center Director and the
Rooney Family Associate Professor in the Departments of Biomedical Engineering
and Surgery in the Pratt School of Engineering and Duke School of Medicine.
“This project is a great early example of our efforts in collaborating across
schools and departments, as well as across universities, to develop innovative
approaches to tackle important challenges.”

At the end of the four-year funding period, DARPA hopes to have therapies
ready for clinical trials.

If successful, this research could reach beyond soldiers and help prevent the
broader community against virtually all strains of the influenza virus by
providing near instantaneous immunity, in contast to traditional vaccines.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

