

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# What Happens When a Dolphin Holds Its Breath?

May 4, 2018 | Miranda Volborth

_In a capstone design course, Duke ECE seniors create prototype sensors to
find out_

When dolphins dive deep to search for prey, their respiration stops. Their
heartbeat slows. Yet they are still able to power all of the functions they
need to hunt. No one is entirely sure how they do it, because no one has ever
been able to measure their blood oxygenation levels during these deep dives.
It's a logistically complex challenge; how do you attach a sensor to a massive
sea-dwelling creature without doing harm? The rudimentary data that
researchers have gathered so far has come from heart rate monitors bound to
dolphins' bodies with thick, wide neoprene straps—dolphin girdles,
essentially.

This spring, Duke researchers tackled that challenge, designing sensors that
they hoped would be able to better collect more of that vital information. The
sensors work in much the same way that a pulse oximeter does—by reflecting
light through the dermis to the blood-rich tissue beneath, and back to a
photodetector sitting on the surface of the skin. The sensor incorporates a
saltwater switch that tells the device when to start recording data, when to
stop, and when to wirelessly communicate the resulting information back to the
researchers. The sensor must be lightweight, power-efficient, and small enough
to fit wholly inside a saucer-sized suction cup attached to an animal's body.

Here's the really impressive part: these researchers weren't faculty. They
were undergraduate students in a Duke Electrical and Computer Engineering
design course, which synthesizes foundational ECE knowledge and skills through
a single, unique sensor interface and design challenge.

Nan Jokerst, the J. A. Jones Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
at Duke, and Associate Professor Martin Brooke have co-taught this course
together for 23 years, continually refining the syllabus and introducing new
design themes and challenges. This spring, they collaborated with Dave Haas, a
Duke PhD candidate in Marine Science and Conservation working under Professor
Doug Nowacek, the Randolph K. Repass and Sally-Christine Rodgers University
Associate Professor of Conservation Technology. Haas' research focuses on
measuring cardiac variation and blood oxygen saturation in cetaceans—aquatic
mammals including dolphins, whales and porpoises. Haas volunteered as a
teaching assistant in the course, and is using the students' work to inform
his own cetacean physiology sensor design, which also incorporates pressure
sensors and accelerometers that convey information about the animal's depth
and body orientation—like whether it's moving toward food, avoiding predators,
or just cruising.

"I've leapfrogged ahead because of their work," said Haas. "I could easily
take their bio-optical sensor designs, integrate it with my tag system and my
data collection system, and actually use that on live dolphins."

As Haas leverages the work of the students, so are they able to leverage the
unique resources of Duke's many collaborators—like UNC-Wilmington's samples of
dolphin skin, stored in a subzero freezer in Duke's Shared Materials
Instrumentation Facility.

“When the students want to run tests, Dave [Haas] will bring the frozen
dolphin tissue samples out and defrost a section, and then they can run the
test on the actual mammalian tissue. They’re looking at things like signal-to-
noise ratio, and trying to determine whether enough light gets transmitted
through this pretty thick dolphin skin, so that we can see the reflected light
coming back at our photodetector,” said Jokerst.

The students worked in teams to prototype their designs, each team competing
to build the most cost-effective sensor with the lowest energy consumption,
smallest footprint and best performance. They were faced with real-world
production challenges, too: lead times for acquiring parts that didn’t work
with the development schedule, vendors that occasionally misplaced orders, and
a rigorous schedule of weekly presentations to upper management—in this case,
their instructors.

Though the coursework was demanding, both teams exceeded expectations, earning
perfect scores, plus bonus points, on their sensors’ design and performance at
their final demonstration.

Kimberly Eddleman, ECE ’18, credited the weekly presentations for keeping the
groups motivated, but also noted that Haas’s participation was incredibly
valuable to both teams throughout the process. “It probably would have taken
more time and been more stressful without having an amazing mentor like Dave,”
she said. “We could bounce ideas off of him, and ask him questions that we
couldn’t find the answers to online.”

Study Electrical and Computer Engineering at Duke

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

