

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# When Art Tackles the Invisibly Small

December 13, 2016 | By Kara Manke

Our mesocosm work provides an opportunity to visualize how were are
investigating the interactions of nanomaterials with living systems

_Originally posted on theDuke Research Blog_

Huddled in a small cinderblock room in the basement of Hudson Hall, visual
artist Raewyn Turner and videographer Brian Harris watch as Duke postdoc Nick
Geitner positions a glass slide under the bulky eyepiece of an optical
microscope.

To the naked eye, the slide is completely clean. But after some careful
adjustments of the microscope, a field of technicolor spots splashes across
the viewfinder. Each point shows light scattering off one of the thousands of
silver nanoparticles spread in a thin sheet across the glass.

“It’s beautiful!” Turner said. “They look like a starry sky.”

Turner and Harris, New Zealand natives, have traveled halfway across the globe
to meet with researchers at the Center for the Environmental Implications of
Nanotechnology (CEINT). Here, they are learning all they can about
nanoparticles: how scientists go about detecting these unimaginably small
objects, and how these tiny bits of matter interact with humans, with the
environment and with each other.

The team hopes the insights they gather will inform the next phases of Steep,
an ongoing project with science communicator Maryse de la Giroday which uses
visual imagery to explore how humans interact with and “sense” the
nanoparticles that are increasingly being used in our electronics, food,
medicines, and even clothing.

“The general public, including ourselves, we don’t know anything about
nanoparticles. We don’t understand them, we don’t know how to sense them, we
don’t know where they are,” Turner said. “What we are trying to do is see how
scientists sense nanoparticles, how they take data about them and translate it
into sensory data.”

Duke Professor and CEINT member Mark Wiesner, who is Geitner’s postdoctoral
advisor, serves as a scientific advisor on the project.

“Imagery is a challenge when talking about something that is too small to
see,” Wiesner said. “Our mesocosm work provides an opportunity to visualize
how were are investigating the interactions of nanomaterials with living
systems, and our microscopy work provides some useful, if not beautiful
images. But Raewyn has been brilliant in finding metaphors, cultural
references, and accompanying images to get points across.”

On Tuesday, Geitner led the pair on a soggy tour of the mesocosms, 30
miniature coastal ecosystems tucked into the Duke Forest where researchers are
finding out where nanoparticles go when released into the environment. After
that, the group retreated to the relative warmth of the laboratory to peek at
the particles under a microscope.

Even at 400 times magnification, the silver nanoparticles on the slide can’t
really be “seen” in any detail, Geitner explained.

“It is sort of like looking at the stars,” Geitner said. “You can’t tell what
is a big star and what is a small star because they are so far away, you just
get that point of light.”

But the image still contains loads of information, Geitner added, because each
particle scatters a different color of light depending on its size and shape:
particles on their own shine a cool blue, while particles that have joined
together in clusters appear green, orange or red.

During the week, Harris and Turner saw a number of other techniques for
studying nanoparticles, including scanning electron microscopes and molecular
dynamics simulations.

“What we have found really, really interesting is that the nanoparticles have
different properties,” Turner said. “Each type of nanoparticle is different to
each other one, and it also depends on which environment you put them into,
just like how a human will behave in different environments in different
ways.”

Geitner says the experience has been illuminating for him, too. “I have never
in my life thought of nanoparticles from this perspective before,” Geitner
said. “A lot of their questions are about really, what is the difference when
you get down to atoms, molecules, nanoparticles? They are all really, really
small, but what does small mean?”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

