

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# The Wilkinson Building Art Collection: A Celebration of Creativity in
Engineering

January 21, 2021

Duke Engineering lives at the nexus of knowledge and creativity. Artwork in
the new Wilkinson Building will reflect this unique identity

Duke Engineering’s new Wilkinson Building was designed to serve as a high-tech
space for teaching, learning and research, with state-of-the-art equipment in
classrooms and laboratories and even a hologram to display 3D design models.
But from the very outset, Vinik Dean of Engineering Ravi Bellamkonda was
determined to also highlight the importance of imagination to engineering
endeavors, by incorporating works of original art throughout the building.

“We at Duke Engineering think of engineering as a creative problem-solving
enterprise,” said Bellamkonda. “The pursuit of creative solutions involves
both the left and the right brain, the analytical and the inventive. That’s
why we chose to celebrate art in the Wilkinson Building—just as with dance,
painting or music, engineering is a creative enterprise.”

Bellamkonda asked Facilities Director Mitchell Vann to form and lead a
volunteer committee that would acquire a collection of art to fill the new
building. For the past two years, Vann has chaired a core working group
composed of Duke Engineering staff members August Burns, Amanda Dixon, Katie
Krieger, Ben Locascio, Quiana Tyson and Miranda Volborth; Duke Engineering
faculty members Martin Brooke, Christine Payne and Tuan Vo-Dinh; and Duke
university architect Bill McCraw to curate the collection.

After numerous meetings and consultations and partnerships with art experts at
Duke, the committee has acquired the beginnings of a world-class collection.
The included works draw their inspiration from science and technology, whether
that’s expressed through subject matter or technique. The committee hopes that
the selected works will spark engineers to approach their own work with the
same creativity.

“One great thing about Pratt students is that they are part of the larger Duke
community including the arts and humanities,” said Payne, whose materials
science classes periodically consider themes in literature and art.
“Engineering is just part of a Pratt education. Combining this level of art
collection with engineering classrooms and research labs will remind students
to think broadly and creatively.”

> "Combining this level of art collection with engineering classrooms and
> research labs will remind students to think broadly and creatively.”
>
> Christine Payne, Yoh Family Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering
> and Materials Science

Among the artists whose works will be on display throughout the Wilkinson
Building are Duke BME graduate Mikael Owunna E’12, internationally lauded
installation artist Luke Jerram, Durham activist Saba Taj and former Duke art
professor Vernon Pratt. Arts & Health at Duke will lend two pieces to Duke
Engineering, from abstract artists Anthony Poon and James Hendricks, and the
widow of New York artist John Hiigli made a gift of several of her husband’s
polyhedron paintings to the school.

Duke Engineering possesses two other notable pieces of art in its Teer and
Hudson buildings: a sculpture by Victor Salmones given as a gift by Nello Teer
III in honor of his father and grandfather, and a quartet of metal orbs by
geometer George Hart suspended in the Fitzpatrick CIEMAS atrium—a gift from
Duke engineer and mathematician Ingrid Daubechies.

> "The results so far are eye-popping.”
>
> MItchell Vann, Duke Engineering Director of Facilities

“Being excited about art personally, I was honored to be asked to head this
very engaged group and the results so far are eye-popping,” Vann said, noting
that the pieces currently on display are only the beginning of what the
committee has planned. “As students, faculty and staff return to campus, we
hope to re-engage with the other renowned artists we’ve identified, who we’d
love to include in our collection,” he added.

The Wilkinson Building art collection will be installed in the first part of
2021. Although public access to Duke facilities is currently restricted due to
COVID-19, the Pratt School of Engineering has launched a virtual version of
the gallery on its website.

Visit the virtual gallery

## Related News

January 21, 2021

### Construction Transforms Campus—and Students

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

