

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Cochlear Implant Developer Blake Wilson Elected to the National Academy of
Engineering

February 9, 2017

Duke alumnus, faculty member honored for “engineering development of the
cochlear implant that bestows hearing to individuals with profound deafness.”

Blake S. Wilson, a Duke University alumnus and faculty member who invented
many of the sound-processing strategies used in modern cochlear implants, has
been elected to the National Academy of Engineering (NAE).

In the Feb. 8 NAE announcement, Wilson was cited for “engineering development
of the cochlear implant that bestows hearing to individuals with profound
deafness,” for which he and colleagues also received the 2015 NAE Fritz J. and
Dolores H. Russ Prize, considered the top prize in the world for
bioengineering. Election to the NAE is among the highest professional honors
for engineers.

“When we think of success stories that have had a profound impact on human
health, especially for children, the cochlear implant ranks at the top,” said
Ravi Bellamkonda, Vinik Dean of Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering. “Blake
Wilson is a pioneer in engineering strategies for their success—indeed for
their ability to recognize speech, the core of their function. His work
exemplifies Duke Engineering's remarkable contributions in the field of neural
engineering, and creativity in applying fundamental engineering principles to
medical devices that improve lives every day.”

According to the National Institutes of Health, about 36 million adults in
America alone report some degree of hearing loss, ranging from difficulty
hearing some high-pitched sounds to total deafness. The development of the
cochlear implant provided a completely new way to treat hearing loss by
translating sounds into electrical signals the brain can interpret and sending
those signals directly to the auditory nerve—bypassing damaged or absent
sensory hair cells in the inner ear.

Wilson began his work full-time on cochlear implants in the 1980s when he
developed the “continuous interleaved sampling” system. The breakthrough made
it possible for cochlear implant recipients to understand words and sentences
with far greater clarity than before, and resulted in a rapid expansion in the
number of deaf and nearly deaf persons who have received a cochlear implant in
one or both ears. To date, hundreds of thousands of adults and children
worldwide have received cochlear implants, and the great majority can talk on
phones and follow conversations in relatively quiet environments.

“Blake Wilson’s work on cochlear implants epitomizes the power of merging
engineering with applications in medicine,” said Nancy C. Andrews, dean of the
Duke University School of Medicine. “The life-changing impact this device has
had on people throughout the world is astounding. Blake’s election into the
NAE is a tremendous honor and richly deserved.”

“Blake's research has transformed the lives of many thousands of children by
giving them back their hearing,” added Ashutosh Chilkoti, chair of Duke’s
Department of Biomedical Engineering. "It's a heartwarming example of the good
engineering can do for society. As impressive as his achievements are, what is
even more extraordinary about Blake is his innate modesty and generous spirit.
In his achievements and his personal attributes, he is a role model for all of
us."

An adjunct professor of biomedical engineering, electrical and computer
engineering, and surgery at Duke University and co-director of the Duke
Hearing Center, Wilson earned both bachelor’s and PhD degrees from Duke’s
Pratt School of Engineering. His numerous honors include being named as co-
recipient of the 2013 Lasker-DeBakey Clinical Medical Research Award, one of
the world’s most prestigious science prizes.

"I was overjoyed by the news from the NAE and immediately thought of how the
spectacular education I received at Duke enabled me to contribute something
special later in life,” said Wilson. “The development of the cochlear implant
now has been recognized twice by the NAE, including the 2015 Russ Prize to me
and four others. Hundreds of talented and dedicated engineers, physicians and
scientists made that development possible, and I was supremely fortunate to be
a part of the overall effort. Wow, what a ride!"

As an NAE member, Wilson will help carry out the academy’s mission of
providing engineering leadership in service to the nation. He joins more than
2,500 peer-elected members and foreign members in the NAE, which serves as an
advisor to the federal government and conducts independent studies to examine
important topics in engineering and technology.

In addition to Wilson, NAE members on the Pratt School of Engineering faculty
include Robert Calderbank, Ingrid Daubechies, Earl Dowell, Henry Petroski,
Jennifer West and Mark Wiesner.

_Blake Wilson describes the development of the modern cochlear implant as the
featured speaker of the 2015 Duke Engineering 75th Anniversary Lecture._

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

