

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# With New ‘Empowerment Fund,’ Engineering Alumni Help Students Take the Next
Step

March 24, 2021 | By Ken Kingery

Starting this semester, the WIN Empowerment Fund will help engineering
students with financial need cover the incidental costs associated with
securing academic and professional positions after graduation

When Duke student Katie Taylor showed up for dinner at the Nashville home of
friend and mentor Stacy Klein-Gardner (BME, ’91), she only expected a nice
meal, pleasant conversation and perhaps advice for her interview with
Vanderbilt’s graduate program in mathematics education. She didn’t bargain on
planting the seed for a new Duke Engineering program called the WIN
Empowerment Fund aimed at covering the incidental expenses students face when
they make their first big career step.

“Katie mentioned in passing how excited she was for the interview, but that
she wasn’t sure how she was going to cover her GRE expenses, let alone her
application fees,” recalled Klein-Gardner, adjunct professor of biomedical
engineering at Vanderbilt and member of the Pratt School of Engineering’s
Board of Visitors. “The more I thought about it, the more I realized that
while scholarship students might be incredibly prepared academically for their
next step thanks to their Duke education, they might not have the financial
means to take it.”

Klein-Gardner had gotten to know Taylor through the Duke Women’s Impact (WIN)
Network, which provides scholarships for four semesters to two new female
juniors each year. Soon after their dinner, Klein-Gardner heard that Idalis
French, another of the WIN Scholars, was contemplating graduate school, which
sparked an idea. She went to work setting up a SignUpGenius account to help
support the students’ transition to graduate school.

Reaching out to colleagues involved with Duke WIN, Klein-Gardner asked people
to sign up to cover certain financial costs or provide other assistance
associated with the application process—a new professional outfit, a hotel
room, a meal, editing an application essay, interview coaching and more. The
Duke WIN members promptly filled all of the requests.

It wasn’t long before Klein-Gardner was recounting all of this to Janis
Rehlaender (BME ’77), founding board member of The Given Limb Foundation and
fellow member of the Pratt Board of Visitors (BoV) and Duke WIN. The two had
already been talking about forming a version of Duke WIN focused on
engineering, and the concept of supporting students trying to take their next
step resonated with others on the BoV.

“We brought together the WIN members of the Pratt BoV to brainstorm ideas for
helping engineering students,” said Rehlaender. “After hearing the stories of
Katie and Idalis, and realizing that even a relatively small amount of
financial assistance could make a big difference in helping students take the
next steps in their career paths, the group was very enthusiastic about
establishing this fund. It was clear to all of us that there is a real need,
and that we could help address that need.”

Rehlaender and Klein-Gardner started putting together a proposal, which was
vetted by several other groups at Duke to make sure the fund wouldn’t
duplicate other programs. They also worked on a system for deciding who should
receive the program’s support, eventually landing on financial aid
qualification as an objective way to make decisions.

And so the WIN Empowerment Fund was born. Launching this semester, the program
makes direct and positive impacts on the lives of students with financial need
by helping meet expenses related to taking the next step after graduation that
typical aid packages do not cover—such as graduate exam and application fees,
travel and professional attire.

Applications may be submitted by any Duke undergraduate student who is
studying engineering, of junior or senior standing, and receiving financial
aid. Priority is given to students with the greatest need, and assistance is
limited to a career maximum of $1,000 per student.

“Our WIN members, along with the entire Pratt BoV, are very excited about
this. We all want to help Pratt students, and the stories we heard about the
obstacles facing these young adults really pulled at our heartstrings,” said
Rehlaender. “The WIN Empowerment Fund seems like a simple and straightforward
way to affect our students’ lives and help them take the next step.”

APPLY To the FUNDGive to The FUND

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

