

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Woo Center for Big Data and Precision Health Established at Duke Engineering

October 22, 2018

Three-year, $3+ million commitment to foster global partnerships to advance
research and education at the intersection of data and health care

A new center at Duke University’s Pratt School of Engineering will harness the
power of big data to improve health care on a global scale. The Sherry and
John Woo Center for Big Data and Precision Health, launched this month with
more than $3 million in funding over three years from philanthropist and
biotech industry executive John Woo, will support research projects,
educational experiences and entrepreneurship opportunities for Duke faculty
and students in collaboration with clinical and industry partners worldwide.

Today, biomedical imaging and sensing technologies are gathering real-time
health data at an unprecedented pace. Powerful computers can probe the
complexity of entire genomes, and electronic recordkeeping offers new
opportunities to analyze population-level disease patterns and issues in
clinical care delivery. Across Duke, faculty and students are developing
innovative data science, machine learning and digital health modeling
approaches to transform this data into actionable health insights.

“Big data, analytics and machine learning are changing our world
significantly, and nowhere will the change be more significant and meaningful
than in health care,” said Ravi V. Bellamkonda, Vinik Dean of Engineering at
Duke. “Duke Engineering and Duke Health are collaboratively leading this
change, and the Woo Center will help catalyze this further by coordinating new
partnerships, expanding access to diverse, well-curated datasets and fueling
transformative research ideas in this space.”

> “Duke is already at the forefront of bringing big data and precision
> medicine into clinical practice,” said Shen. “We’re excited about the
> opportunities this new center will open for our faculty and students to
> build productive new collaborations with clinicians and biotech companies to
> make an impact for patients."

Through the Woo Center, Duke faculty will have new opportunities to work with
hospitals, government agencies, biotech companies and other organizations
worldwide to expand the impact of data-driven health research. The center will
focus initially in China, where efforts are under way to develop a national
network of high-tech health data parks to improve clinical care and care
delivery, particularly in rural regions.

“Big data and precision medicine have the potential to vastly improve human
health, and Duke has a special role to play with its unique combination of
strengths in data science and machine learning, biomedical engineering and
medicine—our faculty are world leaders in each of these areas,” said Larry
Carin, vice provost for research at Duke. “Through new partnerships in China
and around the world, we hope to address pressing medical issues in emerging
markets and reduce disparities to improve global health.”

Each year, the center will award pilot grants up to $150,000 each to Duke
faculty to explore new ideas for collaborative research projects in big data
and health. It will also hold an annual symposium, alternating between the
Duke campus and international locations, to highlight significant research and
foster a global community of health data science researchers.

With a focus on international collaborations, the Woo Center will complement
existing initiatives such as The Forge, Duke University’s center for data
health science, according to campus leaders. “Faculty and students across Duke
are working to bridge the gap between health information and actual clinical
practice,” said Dr. Robert Califf, vice chancellor for health data science and
director of Duke Forge. “Ultimately, our mission is to translate data-driven
insights into more effective care and better health for individuals and
communities at home and around the world, and we welcome opportunities to
advance those efforts.”

The center will also provide a home for the growing number of Duke engineering
students interested in the intersection of health care and big data, said
Xiling Shen, the Hawkins Family Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering
(BME) and director of the new center. Shen is also spearheading the launch
this fall of a new master’s-level curriculum in biomedical and health data
sciences offered through Duke BME in partnership with the Duke Institute for
Health Innovation (DIHI).

In addition to coordinating research opportunities, the center plans to
sponsor international exchanges and internships for Duke students, as well as
encourage global entrepreneurship in health data through sponsoring business
plan and pitch competitions, seed funding and networking events.

“Duke is already at the forefront of bringing big data and precision medicine
into clinical practice,” said Shen. “We’re excited about the opportunities
this new center will open for our faculty and students to build productive new
collaborations with clinicians and biotech companies to make an impact for
patients.”

For more information, visit _healthdata.pratt.duke.edu_.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

