

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# A Year of Real-World Design

October 24, 2018 | By Michaela Kane

Centered on collaboration with Duke Medicine clinicians, Duke BME's re-
imagined design course challenges students to design solutions to real
patients' problems

Every engineer knows that the design process is not a straightforward one. For
Emelina Vienneau, Diana Arguijo, Sarah Jacobs and Kayla Wright-Freeman, the
serpentine route to a finished product was fresh in their minds as they
presented their final senior design project, “A Breath of Fresh Air,” during
the Spring 2018 Duke BME Design Symposium. These biomedical engineering
students had spent the better part of a year creating a respiratory muscle
training (RMT) device before scrapping their initial design for a new one—less
than a month before their final presenations.

“We had been working on this project throughout the fall and spring semesters,
but it felt like it wasn’t coming together in the way we envisioned,” says
Vienneau. “We had this nagging sense that our initial approach wasn’t solving
the right problem for Harrison Jones, our clinical partner, or for the
patients, so we decided to start over.”

Typically, when people have weak respiratory muscles—common in conditions such
as Pompe disease or COPD—physicians prescribe respiratory therapy that trains
their lungs as they inhale and exhale against resistance, just as someone
would lift weights to gain strength. Traditional RMT devices include a tube
containing a spring-loaded threshold valve, which determines the air
resistance. Patients inhale or exhale into the tube, using their lungs to
create a pressure differential. Once the pressure meets the designated
threshold, air will move through the tube and patients will have ‘exercised’
their respiratory muscles.

But current RMT devices have drawbacks. Most use unidirectional valves, so
patients need two separate devices to strengthen their inspiratory and
expiratory muscles. The range of the spring-loaded valves is also limited, so
the devices don’t always offer the resistance levels patients require.

The team’s final design was specifically created to address these
shortcomings. 3D-printed in bright pink filament, their RMT device boasts a
single breathing tube containing a bidirectional motorized butterfly valve.
The air tube also incorporates a differential pressure sensor that measures
the flow rate within the tube to indicate a successful or unsuccessful breath.

“We created this brand-new tool in a month, and it is unlike anything that’s
currently on the market,” says Vienneau. “The motorized butter-fly valve
allowed us to use a single air tube, fully automate the device, and create a
full range of re-sistances. The prototype was well-received by our professors
and our clinical partner. In the end, we were really glad we scrapped the
first design and started again, because we made a better product that solved
the problem at hand in a more elegant way.”

#### Understanding Doctors' Dilemmas

The Fresh Air team was among the first to pilot a new two-semester design
program offered by Duke’s Department of Biomedical Engineering. Spearheaded by
Mark Palmeri, a physician-engineer and professor of the practice in BME, the
program offers an immersive design curriculum that challenges students to
solve the real-world problems physicians encounter in medicine.

“When I became chair of BME, I realized that our design curriculum and course
offerings needed to be revamped,” says Ashutosh Chilkoti. “Our design course
was one semester long, which is too short to traverse the path from
identifying a clinical need to designing a prototype device that addresses
that need. I quickly realized that Mark—with his background as a designer of
ultrasound instrumentation, and his dual MD/PhD degree—was the person who
could design and pilot a new two-semester design course.”

The next step in the development of the new program took root when Palmeri and
Chilkoti attended a 2016 lunch discussion with Duke neonatologists who talked
about the technological gaps they experienced in their work. Within a year,
Palmeri had organized a two-semester pilot program with master’s students
focused on medical devices for neonatology. By the end of 2017, students had
created projects including a modified stethoscope that could monitor cardiac
abnormalities, a biometrics recording device that could track infant
respiration and heart rate and send the information to a doctor’s phone, and a
handheld scanner that used ultrasonic waves to examine bone density.

“We weren’t able to test these devices in the neo-natal population during that
pilot year, but the students were able to create successful products that can
continue to be developed,” says Palmeri. “After seeing what they produced, I
bought heavily into the idea of year-long design courses being highly
beneficial for students, and it felt like a natural direction in which to grow
our design curriculum.”

#### Design Moves Downtown

Finding space for the new curriculum was the final challenge.

"We wanted to create a space that served the needs of instructors and was a
place that students were happy to work in," says Chilkoti. The team turned to
the Chesterfield Building in downtown Durham, with shuttle service to and from
Duke. Working with Marcus Henderson and Matt Brown, Duke BME’s laboratory
instructors, the team created a customized design suite that would serve the
needs for an immersive two-semester senior design course.

“This was exciting for all of us, because we had taught students in
retrofitted spaces for years. Now, following our inputs, architects had
created a beautiful new lab expressly for teaching electronics and electronic
design,” says Henderson.

In the fall of 2017, Duke BME officially launched the two-semester design
program for undergraduate students in the customized design suite.

With Palmeri at the helm as the instructor and Brown spending much of his time
at Chesterfield lending technical support, all the pieces for a new two-
semester design experience were in place. Students first enroll in BME 590:
Fundamentals of Design, where they choose a project and begin to collaborate
with a physician to assess the needs and shadow them at Duke University
Medical Center. The following spring, students take BME 464: Medical Device
Design to begin the actual construction of their projects.

To expand the pool of clinicians students could work with, Palmeri partnered
with Duke MEDx, an interdisciplinary initiative between the Pratt School of
Engineering and the Duke University School of Medicine. “Our goal was to
ensure that the student design teams had authentic problems to sink their
teeth into, rather than something that felt like an academic exercise. If they
are going to work on something for a year, we want them to be invested in it
and feel like it will have a greater use,” says Palmeri. “We also wanted to
leverage Duke BME’s physical proximity to the Medical Center to be able to
give them that hands-on experience in a variety of different fields.”

#### Devices Across Disciplines

Palmeri’s inaugural crop of design students spread across six projects and
multiple disciplines. In the field of urology, one team created a device to
help manage Vescicoureteral Reflux (VUR), the retrograde flow of urine from
the bladder to the kidney. By creating a pressure transducer catheter, the
team was able to measure the pressure changes at the bladder wall and
calculate the length of the intramural ureter, helping surgeons more
accurately estimate the amount of bulking agent needed to manage symptoms.

Working with anesthesiologists, a group of students attempted to create an
accurate and easy-to-use neuromuscular paralysis monitor to track the muscle
relaxation of patients under general anesthesia. A second group sought to help
anesthesiologists visualize the throat while inserting a breathing tube,
creating a 3D-printed cage that encompassed a tiny camera.

Another team worked with a laparoscopic surgeon to create a tool that would
locate needles lost in a patient’s abdomen—a rare problem, but one that can
cause severe complications if not quickly addressed. Physicians typically use
intraoperative X-ray to search for lost needles, but the students designed a
wand-like device equipped with a metal detection circuit to do the job more
quickly.

“I think we’re in a unique position in that we can use our expanded design
course to address clinical areas that have been neglected by the heavy hitters
in industry,” says Palmeri. “We are constantly seeing advances in fields like
cardiology, but I think we can make strides in neglected fields like
respiratory therapy or neonatology, especially if we can give them long-term,
personalized attention.”

And patients aren’t the only ones who will benefit—three of Palmeri’s students
worked with gastroenterologist Darin Dufault to help physicians themselves.
Doctors who perform numerous endoscopies, it turns out, often experience
musculoskeletal injuries during their careers due to the repetitive motions
required by the work.

“I graduated from medical school in the last 10 years, and I’ve already seen
classmates who are scaling back their practice because of repetitive motion
injuries or arthritis,” says Palmeri. “This endoscopy project was actually
based on lots of anecdotal evidence from physicians about their discomfort,
but there was never an effort to see how the ergonomics of these tools could
be improved.”

By creating different sizes of dials, the students were able to make the
endoscope more comfortable to hold and reduced the repetitive motions
physicians would need to make with their hands and fingers, limiting their
joint pain.

“Through observation, feedback and numerous prototype iterations, we were able
to develop a simple device that not only allows doctors with all sizes of
hands to use safely and efficiently, but alleviates strain in the hand and
maintains increased operator safety, even after a long day of procedures,”
says Hannah Grossman, one of the students from the team. "No we've got a
viable product with applications that extend beyond our initial intentions—and
that is something the team is proud of."

#### From Classroom to Commercialization

Just a year into the design program, student interest is exceeding
expectations.

“When we opened the first course for students to sign up, it filled up in less
than a minute and the wait-list was two to three times the course capacity. We
had to turn students away,” says Palmeri. “It’s always positive to see that
the student interest is there, now we just have to grow so we can get rid of
that bottleneck and give students the comprehensive design experience they
clearly want.”

There are already plans to do just that. BME's Kevin Caves and Robert Malkin
have already expanded their design courses into two-semester programs, and new
faculty member Eric Richardson will teach his own section of the course.
Palmeri will also expand the projects students can work on in his own course,
with plans to bring back some of the neonatology devices from the pilot
program and introduce more collaborations with MEDx partners.

> "When students graduate and go on to jobs, it's programs like this that
> allow them to hit the ground running."

The program has also captured the interest of Robin Rasor, the executive
director of Duke University’s Office for Licensing and Ventures. After
learning about the ergonomic endoscope project, Rasor met with the team and
gave them advice about how they could commercialize their design for
widespread use. Duke OLV also filed a patent application to protect their
technology, as well as for the respiratory device developed by Vienneau and
her team.

“I was really impressed to see how much these students were able to accomplish
in just two semesters,” says Rasor. “The fact that Duke OLV was interested in
pursuing, protecting and marketing two projects within the first year of the
program’s creation really speaks to both the strength of the program and the
skills of the students in it.”

Just as planned, the students grow through the course as well. “The two-
semester design program was one of my most rewarding experiences at Duke,”
says Vienneau. “It was unique to have the chance to build something that was
clinically relevant and provides a valuable service. That’s why so many of us
choose biomedical engineering to begin with.”

For Palmeri, seeing his students’ success confirms the need for more immersive
design programs that can prepare graduating students for jobs in industry.

“The ability to bring a design to life is a ubiquitous skillset, and we want
to provide more opportunities for students to use the skills they’ve developed
at Duke to solve real problems,” he says. “When students graduate and go on to
jobs, it’s programs like this that allow them to hit the ground running.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

