

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2018

# Risky Business

May 23, 2018 | By Isabella DeCarlo

Mark Borsuk brings expertise in assessing and mitigating risk to Duke
Engineering and the university at large

Although engineers strive to build the accurate systems and devices that can
adapt to changes in an environment, it can be incredibly difficult to predict
and properly account for what happens when things do not go according to plan.
Mark Borsuk, associate professor of civil and environmental engineering, hopes
to combat these issues by assessing risks and determining what, if anything,
can be done to mitigate or prepare for risk. Borsuk is not only an associate
professor, but also the director of the Pratt Initiative on Risk and
Resilience Engineering (PIRRE).

After earning his bachelor's degree in civil engineering at Princeton
University, Borsuk joined an environmental consulting firm. Discouraged by the
seemingly arbitrary nature of risky decision-making, Borsuk decided to go back
to school to study how civil and environmental engineering disciplines could
benefit from increased statistical analysis and prediction science.

Borsuk explains that when structures such as bridges are built, they are given
a nonspecific safety factor to conform to—perhaps the bridge has to be able to
withstand loads ten times heavier than it is anticipated to accommodate.
Instead of using "one-sizefits- all" factors to estimate and mitigate risk,
Borsuk's research strives to model civil and environmental engineering systems
to better withstand and account for the specific risks and issues those
systems will face.

To further his pursuit, Borsuk obtained a master's degree from Duke University
in decision science and statistics before going on to receive his PhD in
environmental science and policy from Duke's Nicholas School of the
Environment, specifically focusing on aquatic and atmospheric sciences.

Armed with this multidisciplinary educational background, Borsuk has a unique
perspective on the intersection of engineering, statistics and the
environment. He explains that his research goals are broadly to "use data to
improve public-sector decision-making."

A recent project Borsuk completed sought to create a model of climate change
that accounts for risk and uncertainty and how such risks will affect society
in the coming decades. He points out that humans are intrinsically averse to
risk—people purchase insurance policies for example, and expect to receive
greater returns on riskier investments. Instances like this show society's
desire to tolerate risk if appropriately mitigated and compensated.

But public policy is not always construed and enacted in such a way.

From his studies, Borsuk concludes that while there is no easy or
straightforward answer when it comes to climate change, there is a greater
risk of things being worse rather than better than expected. And due to
humanity's predisposition to avoiding risk, climate mitigation policies should
be more aggressive. His model accounts for previous data and behaviors, as
well as predictions about the future—for example, will new technology arise to
reduce carbon emissions in an impactful way? Or will environmental damage get
worse due to things like positive feedback cycles?

While modeling systems, Borsuk combines prior knowledge and expert opinion
with strict mathematical data to predict not only what may happen
scientifically, but also what should be done policy-wise by society. He does
this by using computer software to create models based on Bayesian statistics.

Bayesian statistics, Borsuk explains, is "philosophically and mathematically"
distinct from traditional statistical methods and measures. Rather than
assuming fixed, well-determined values (which is the case in traditional
statistics), Bayesian statistics allows for model predictions to be
represented using probabilities that account for uncertainty and variability
in observed data. This method also allows for existing knowledge to be
incorporated into models, leading to more inclusive and broad-reaching
modeling and therefore more honest and informative predictions.

In a broader sense, Borsuk places great value in understanding risk for
society as a whole. He says, "Chronic risks can pose heavy burdens of expense,
disease and death, and acute crises can be unexpected or even unpredictable in
their timing in magnitude. Humanity's ability to thrive in the 21st century
will depend on our capacity for anticipating, mitigating and adapting to these
risks."

Borsuk was hired by Pratt with the specific goal of initiating a broad-
reaching effort on risk and resilience. Together with Professor Henri Gavin,
he recently spearheaded the addition of a Master of Engineering program in
risk engineering and a PhD track in systems, risk and decisions in CEE. Borsuk
hopes to further this growth by connecting different schools within the
university under an interdisciplinary center devoted to risk and resilience.

Borsuk sees much power in the multidisciplinary relationships at Duke. In
relation to risk, he sees how faculty from Duke's different schools have
similar interests that stem from various academic disciplines. For example,
individuals at the Pratt School of Engineering, the Sanford School of Public
Policy, and the Nicholas School of the Environment are all involved with
studying risk and resilience from different perspectives. He plans to develop
a research program that draws from the diverse expertise of these distinct
departments to better characterize and model risk. Borsuk believes such an
entity can, among other goals, lead to a "stronger foundation of making
decisions with respect to the environment."

> “Chronic risks can pose heavy burdens of expense, disease and death, and
> acute crises can be unexpected or even unpredictable in their timing in
> magnitude. Humanity’s ability to thrive in the 21st century will depend on
> our capacity for anticipating, mitigating and adapting to these risks.”

Borsuk's work with risk initiatives are also prevalent in his teaching through
his class called "Uncertainty, Design, and Optimization" (CEE201). As a
mandatory class for undergraduate civil engineering majors, it introduces the
idea of why and how risk must be accounted for in engineering design,
specifically as applied to structural and environmental projects.

Borsuk also piloted a new graduate-level class in the fall of 2018. Titled
"Risk and Resilience Engineering," this class focuses on how one characterizes
risk, and, subsequently, assesses resilience. He and his students are
exploring the concept of resilience through multiple lenses— namely ones
grounded in ecology, infrastructure and social/community-based entities. For
example, when a devastating natural disaster occurs, there are many different
types of resilience that allow an impacted area to resist or recover from the
challenges—from the engineering of the buildings to the natural landscape to
the strength of communities.

Risk is prevalent in almost all areas of existence. Borsuk names some of these
risks to include: "natural disasters, climate change, cyber-attacks, financial
shocks, terrorism and public health threats." But no matter the threat, it is
increasingly important to focus on how to determine, combat and recover from
risks, both within and outside of engineering.

**Isabella DeCarlo is a first-year student hoping to pursue a major in civil
engineering, a certificate in global development engineering, and a minor in
finance.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2018

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

