

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2017

# From Bolivia to India: Of Our Air, Our Environment and Our Health

April 28, 2017 | By Daniel Kai Sheng Boey

A career's worth of the world's environment explored with Michael H. Bergin,
professor of civil and environmental engineering

Michael H. Bergin, professor of civil and environmental engineering, started
his career as a mechanical engineer, graduating from the University of
Minnesota. A professor at Duke now for two years, Professor Bergin's  
research interests lie in particulate matter (PM) and the impacts they have on
human health and the environment. His work has taken him across four
continents, from the glaciers of Nepal to the rustic villages of Myanmar.

Professor Bergin found his niche in investigating how air pollutants affect
climate change. His research brought him to the Greenland Ice Sheet for
months, where he studied the impact of air pollutants on the pristine glacier.

## Burning Trash & The Taj Mahal

Of the many places around the world Professor Bergin has worked, India was one
of the places he has most wanted to go. “The air quality impacts on human
health in India are probably greater than anywhere else [in the world] because
of the … high population—and because the air quality is really bad,” said
Professor Bergin.

In the late ‘90s, his first study in Nepal led him to discover why the
Himalayas were blanketed by pollution and dust: the burning of biomass and
fossil fuels in India. That discovery inspired his studies into the incidence
of air pollution on the subcontinent.

In 2015, Professor Bergin co-authored a paper in _Environmental Science and
Technology_ that detailed the particulate matter responsible for discoloring
the Taj Mahal. The very same carbon-based particles and dust that gave a
brownish tint to the Taj Mahal were the particles that affected the health of
the local populace. More recently, he is looking into the trash and refuse
problem in India and proving that the toxic burning of municipal waste affects
human health. To further investigate, he led undergraduate students to India
to research how to burn trash efficiently to convert the waste into energy for
communities.

## Where Did Our Glacier Go?

As few as 10 years ago, Chacaltaya in La Paz was the highest-elevation ski
resort in the world. Owing to global warming, however, the glacier has now
disappeared. Professor Bergin’s work regarding global warming spurred him to
investigate how climate change, air pollution and glaciology intersect.

Over a past spring break, Professor Bergin led students to Bolivia to
investigate its air and water quality in the class CEE 292: Environmental
Engineering Field Methods. Students took air quality samples to measure the
exposure of locals in La Paz, the capital of Bolivia, to particulate matter
and other substances during their local commute to work. Another group
collected water and fish samples at rivers and lakes near gold mining sites to
measure levels of mercury back at the Duke laboratories. The students’
research found that the air was five to ten times the limits set by World
Health Organization air quality standards, while the fish and water contained
moderately elevated levels of mercury—definite areas of concern for the city
dwellers.

“[This class] helped to validate my decision to pursue this degree in the
first place,” said sophomore Danielle Holt, who is majoring in environmental
engineering. “I realized that I did in fact enjoy this field very much—it’s
one I could see myself working in for years to come.”

## Of Success and the Future

“The way to lead a joyful life is to find something you love to do,”
encouraged Professor Bergin. Believing that every day is an adventure, he
looks forward to spending time with his family and working with his students
on novel projects. On a personal note, he strives to meet his hardest goal
yet: to make a huge difference in the world.

“I’m in a position where I should be able to do things that make the world a
much better place,” said Professor Bergin, as he continues his lifelong
mission to ensure clean air for everyone to breathe. “Every day I wake up I
can’t believe that I have been so lucky to have such a great job at a place
like Duke with amazing students and faculty. And I know that the sky is the
limit, so I better get going to do some amazing things!”

**Daniel Kai Sheng Boey is from the Class of 2020 and is currently pursuing a
major in environmental engineering. He enjoys exploring new places through
running and going on gastronomic adventures.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2017

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

