

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2020

# Illuminating the Dark Genome

March 1, 2020 | By Ellery Jones

Duke’s Center for Advanced Genomic Technologies shines brightly on the horizon

Each steppingstone in the history of genetics has led us closer to
understanding the complex links between our DNA and our everyday lives. From
Mendel's humble pea plant studies in the 19th century to the completion of the
monumental Human Genome Project in 2003, scientists have made incredible
progress in a short amount of time.

Over the past two decades, researchers' abilities to sequence, organize and
even edit the genome have skyrocketed with the development of rapid sequencing
and bioinformatic technologies. Recently, geneticists have discovered a new
route on the roadmap that ties our genetic code to our health and well-being,
sometimes referred to as the "dark genome."

These stretches of our genome do not instruct our cells on how to make
specific proteins but rather help control when, where and to what extent our
protein-coding genes are activated or deactivated. Here at Duke, the Center
for Advanced Genomic Technologies (CAGT) is launching the scientific community
into the frontier of studying how the dark genome helps control human health
and disease.

The CAGT began with conversations between Maria Ciofani, assistant professor
of immunology; Gregory E. Crawford, associate professor of pediatrics; Timothy
Reddy, associate professor of biostatistics & bioinformatics; Kris Wood,
assistant professor of pharmacology & cancer biology; and Charles Gersbach,
the Rooney Family Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering and director
of the CAGT.

Gersbach recognized that this core group needed an identity to expand and
incorporate other labs and people into it, and from these five founding
members, the CAGT was born. In the brief time since its founding, the center
has grown to a community of 27 professors across fields of engineering,
biology, medicine, bioinformatics and more.

Jeni Reininga-Craven, executive director of the CAGT, has watched the center
blossom into an expansive and diverse research coalition from those informal
beginnings. "We recognized that there were really stellar collaborations and
big research impacts through these five steering committee members," she said.
"Not only were these groups successful in their research, but in their other
impacts, such as providing a rich multidisciplinary training environment,
receiving grant funding from diverse agencies and participating in national
consortia."

Taking part in these national consortia, such as the National Institute of
Healthbacked ENCODE Consortium, the Roadmap Epigenetics Program and the
Somatic Cell Genome Editing Consortium, will allow the CAGT researchers to
share their work and connect with others on a worldwide scale.

At this point, one might ask, why choose to study the non-coding aspects of
the genome in the context of disease? Aren't protein-coding genes the stars of
the show? According to Reininga-Craven, this is a common misconception.
"Limitations in technology are a big reason it hasn't been studied before,"
she explained. "In the last ten years or so, genome-wide association studies
have helped us understand the role of the genome in complex diseases. However,
researchers didn't uncover as many variants in protein-coding genes as they
thought they would. In fact, about 90 percent of the genetic variation known
to exist for complex diseases is undiscovered. That's why we need to look at
the non-coding genome next."

One of the reasons the CAGT is uniquely suited to tackle significant
challenges in genetic research is its multidisciplinary team. "One of the
major challenges of genetic research is that genetic data is very difficult to
measure and interpret—how do we link regulatory variation of genes to the
outcomes of diseases? It's a complex system," said ReiningaCraven.

Gersbach, whose lab focuses on the development of Clustered Regularly
Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats (CRISPR) genome editing technologies,
wholeheartedly agrees. "The primary goal of the CAGT is to unify researchers
across the Schools of Engineering, Medicine, and Arts & Sciences to tackle
grand challenges of genomics that can't be addressed by any one approach or
discipline," he said. "One of the challenges is that engineers continue to
develop more advanced high-throughput technologies that generate greater and
greater amounts of data, and this necessitates innovative bioinformatic
approaches to analyze these datasets in robust and statistically sound ways."

Gersbach offered a concrete and nearly mind-boggling example of the data
analysis and interpretation challenges that advanced sequencing technology
produces. "For example," he said, "how do we assign a function to every base
pair of the 3 billion base pairs of the human genome, within each of the
billions of individual cells in a tissue, across thousands of different people
in a patient cohort?"

The answer lies in cooperation between multiple fields of expertise in
bioinformatics, statistics and engineering. Collaborations between the CAGT
and the Center for Statistical Genetics and Genomics, led by Andrew Allen,
professor of biostatistics and bioinformatics, seek to address some of these
challenges.

"We all meet together multiple times each week to tackle various projects in
these areas," said Allen. "Several of our faculty, such as Professors Tim
Reddy, Raluca Gordan and Bill Majoros, are members of both centers, leading to
natural integration across disciplines and research projects."

The CAGT is poised to make international impact through its groundbreaking
research, but it is dedicated to providing local educational programs and
professional development opportunities in its home community as well. Gersbach
shared his excitement for the translational potential of the CAGT's research.

"For the last five or six years," Gersbach said, "we've been developing
exciting new technologies, applying them to various disease areas and
capitalizing on novel therapeutic directions. The rapid development of genome-
based therapeutics is aided by partnerships between medicine and engineering
and has led to spinning our technology into patents and the biotechnology
industry."

Reininga-Craven echoed the success of the CAGT's technology, sharing that some
of their recent work has led to the creation of start-up companies and
philanthropic pursuits. She also emphasized that one of the major goals of the
center is to provide enrichment and professional development opportunities to
students, from symposia including renowned leaders in the field to assistance
with science communications.

"We want to make sure we have programming that meets the needs of everyone
across the spectrum," said Reininga-Craven. "Let's build around the people
that are here and leverage their unique resources and experiences to aid in
peer mentoring and building a community." Excited to hear ideas from incoming
and current students on how the CAGT could provide opportunities for them to
grow as scientists, leaders and mentors, she added, "Now's a great time to
hear from trainees—we're brainstorming!"

Finally, Reininga-Craven shared her vision of the CAGT's bright future. "In
establishing the center," she said, "we're also establishing Duke as a thought
leader in genomic technology. I think we have the right people, and Duke is
the right place, to make major progress."

**Ellery Jones is pursuing her PhD in biomedical engineering and uses tissue-
engineered blood vessels to study the development of cardiovascular disease.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2020

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

