

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2020

# Technology and Sustainability: Student Projects at the Smart Home

March 1, 2020 | By Jade Grimes

Each year, Duke Smart Home residents and club members develop and test a wide
array of new projects and initiatives focused on sustainable living

Any Disney enthusiast's first concept of a "smart home" probably began with
Smart House, the 1999 film portraying the tale of a family's residence in a
high-tech house. While Disney's version of a smart home had some pretty
disastrous consequences, the Duke Smart Home, our very own version of a
hightech and sustainable residential home, has allowed students to develop
some fascinating and beneficial projects. David Smoot, a junior mechanical
engineering student and current Smart Home resident, described the house as
"both the building of the future but also the building to bring that future
into today." With in-house lab facilities, a weather station and a building
design created specifically for adaptability, the Smart Home, as described by
Alex Weck, a senior civil engineering major, "is really the only place on
campus where [students] can implement solutions and then have residents test
them."

As a living-learning community, the home's 10 residents, along with Smart Home
club members, develop and test new projects and initiatives each year. Most
Duke students have likely seen some of the past projects in action—the solar
benches and LED lighting projects installed around West Campus had their
inception in the Smart Home. This year, students will not only expand on some
older projects—like increasing the electric power of the solar benches—but
also focus on developing new ones. Some noteworthy projects include house
automation and HVAC (heating, ventilating, and air conditioning) systems, an
algae window, a smart mirror and beekeeping/ gardening.

**"[The smart home is] one of the few places in the country where you can get
[consumer smart home tech and commercial automation systems] to talk to each
other."**

While the Smart Home already has some helpful and efficient automated systems
in place, like mobile app-controlled lighting, air source heat pumps and
recovery ventilators, Smart Home students want to expand these systems to make
them more widely applicable and more efficient. This could lead to the
integration of recently affordable consumer smart tech into some of the Smart
Home's more expensive, commercially oriented systems. For electrical systems,
this means creating an open-source automation server and installing more
wireless sensors for monitoring microclimate factors like temperature and
humidity. For the HVAC systems, a project led by Smoot, this means analyzing
sensor data, determining heating/cooling efficacy and finding solutions to
deficiencies. Potential changes include smart vents that would provide on-
demand heating/cooling to an area and automatic window shades that could
minimize heating from solar radiation. Smoot's goal is to "not just build the
most efficient, perfectly normal forced air conditioning system you can build,
but to also try to stop heat from getting into the space from the source."

**"What if you took the bottom of the food chain and put it in a window?"**

Weck, the lead of the Algae Window Project, is piloting another option for
regulating solar heat—algae-filled windows. As an alternative to automatic
blinds, he hopes to filter Spirulina (a form of blue-green algae) between
windowpanes to change window opacity. The system would pump higher
concentrations of Spirulina through the window to reduce its opacity (and
reduce solar heating), or remove the algae when more light is desired. An
algae-filled window would also have an interesting secondary effect of tinting
the incoming light an appealing shade of green. Spirulina is a type of
cyanobacteria that is easy to grow—a nutrient supply is added into the tank
whenever more algae is needed. It can also live in extremely basic
environments (waters of a pH of 10 or 11), which makes it hard for
contaminants to grow in the same water. Spirulina can also be harvested, dried
and consumed as food. A current hot topic in health forums, spirulina is about
70 percent protein by weight and is already being used as a health supplement.
Ultimately, the goal is to have residents eat the same algae (once dried out)
that pumps through their windows. As a side project, Weck wants to try making
some foods out of algae. If residents can turn the algae into a flour-like
substance, the baking possibilities become endless, and they could make
cookies, cake and granola bars from their algae.

**"Every Duke student needs a little pick-me-up in the morning."**

Peter Candelora, a junior studying electrical and computer engineering, is
managing the Smart Mirror Project. The project's goal is to create a visually
appealing and functional information hub for residents of the Smart Home. The
Smart Mirror looks and functions like a regular mirror, but has a screen
placed behind the mirror pane. Similar to a smartphone lock screen, the smart
mirror will show the user important notifications along with their reflection.
The design is more functional and convenient compared to traditional message
boards and is less intrusive than a television screen. To achieve this,
Candelora designed a custom wooden frame to house the LCD screen and used a
mounting system that allows the Smart Mirror to be integrated directly into
the Smart Home's walls. Currently, the Smart Home residents have programmed
the Smart Mirror to display the Smart Home calendar and fun, uplifting
messages, but their final goal is to have it present information for realtime
events like weather conditions, news and live bus route tracking.

**Appreciating the Pollinators**

The gardening/beekeeping project, led by Andrea Kolarova (Environmental
Science, '20), involves integrating multiple new and revamped projects.
Drawing on permaculture ideals, local fauna will be planted into the Smart
Home's current garden beds to create a pollinator garden, and in the spring, a
beehive will be created. This project is especially important due to the
current endangered status of many bees. The pollinator garden and beehive will
involve a collaboration with local Durham groups like the Durham Beekeepers
Association, which will take care of the hive when students are not on campus.
While the students hope to find local plants for the pollinator garden that do
not require a lot of watering, they also plan to build a more efficient
irrigation system for the garden. The current watering system already uses
rainwater from the home's collection tanks, but this year's improvements could
entail smart sprinklers (a weather forecast-dependent watering system) for
each bed, re-designating the plant zones and creating a drip irrigation
system. The idea that failures make for prime learning opportunities rings
true in the residential smart tech field. It is evident that this year's Smart
Home endeavors, even if unsuccessful, have the potential to make a large
impact. The Smart Home's main goal is to explore methods of sustainable
living, apply them to efforts on Duke Campus, and ultimately, share its
findings with people beyond Duke. The process of getting to a less sinister,
more efficient version of the smart house our generation imagined as kids is a
lengthy one. But in the near future, homeowners will have the chance to
install new developments, possibly ones that start right here on our campus,
to create a more efficient home.

**Jade Grimes is a junior pursuing a double major in civil engineering and
environmental science with a certificate in architectural engineering.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2020

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

