

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Graduate

# Supporting Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

Diversity and inclusion make for better engineers—and a better experience for
engineering students.

That’s why Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering embraces diversity and inclusion
in the classroom and in the laboratory—whether that’s racial, ethnic, sexual
or gender diversity. Learn more about our commitment to diversity and
inclusion.

Duke Engineering offers many opportunities for underrepresented groups, from
student groups to fellowships, to recruiting incentives, to events and
activities that celebrate the diversity of our entire community.

Duke Engineering is proud to be part of the American Society of Engineering
Education’s (ASEE) Deans Diversity Initiative. We have earned the Bronze Award
from the ASEE Diversity Recognition Program, and its recommendation as a
national exemplar.

## Contact Us

If you’d like more information about diversity, equity and inclusion at Duke
Engineering, please **contact us**.

## Pratt Profiles: Meet Our Grad Students

Read about the experiences some of our students have had at Duke Engineering.

Korine Ohiri, PhD candidate, Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Oscar Carrasco-Zevallos, PhD candidate, Biomedical Engineering

Karah Kelly, PhD student, Civil and Environmental Engineering

Isvar Cordova, PhD candidate, Electrical and Computer Engineering

Corey Oses, PhD candidate, Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Tiffany Wilson, PhD student, Civil and Environmental Engineering

Terrance White, MS graduate, Biomedical Engineering

Ugonna Ohiri, PhD candidate, Computer and Electrical Engineering

## Graduate Student Recruiting Incentives

We offer aggressive packages of fellowships, scholarships, and incentives to
PhD and master's students from underrepresented groups, including women and
persons with disabilities. Application fee waivers are also available

These include:

  * Application fee waivers
  * Dean's Graduate Scholarship Program
  * Sloan Scholarship Program
  * Diversity Scholarships for our master's students
  * Assistance with applications for external competitive fellowships

recruiting incentiveS Details

## Diversity-Focused Groups for Grad Students

BioCORE: BioCORE is designed to unify and enrich the bioscience community
across Duke. It is committed to increasing every aspect of diversity within
Duke’s bioscience community.

Bouchet Society: The Duke University Bouchet Society primarily supports
underrepresented graduate students in the pursuit of scholarly excellence in
the Natural Sciences, Engineering, and Mathematics

Samuel Dubois Cook Society: Named in honor of the first black professor to be
hired Duke University, the Samuel Dubois Cook Society is committed to
translating the promise and potential of African Americans into fulfillment
and actuality, and to seek to improve relations among persons of all
backgrounds.

more Resources for  
students in engineering

## Contact Us

If you’d like more information about diversity and inclusion resources at Duke
Engineering, please contact us.

## Diversity & Inclusion Events

Apr 5

### Brown Bag with National Intelligence Officer-in-Residence Andrew Vail

12:00 pm to 1:00 pm Gross Hall Picnic Tables

Presenter: Andrew Vail

Add to calendar »

Apr 13

### Duke Service-Learning Faculty Showcase

3:30 pm to 5:00 pm Rubenstein Library 349

Presenter: Service-Learning Faculty

Add to calendar »

Apr 19

### 2023 Fortin Foundation Bass Connections Showcase

3:30 pm to 6:00 pm Penn Pavilion

Add to calendar »

Apr 25

### Identity & Computing Lecture Series: Identity-Inclusive Courses: A Student
Perspective

5:00 pm to 6:00 pm Virtual

Add to calendar »

May 3

### Brown Bag with National Intelligence Officer-in-Residence Andrew Vail

12:00 pm to 1:00 pm Gross Hall Picnic Tables

Presenter: Andrew Vail

Add to calendar »

View Duke Events Calendar

## Contact

### Nan Jokerst

**Associate Dean, Faculty Affairs and Community Engagement**

919-660-5503

nan.jokerst@duke.edu

### Karis Boyd-Sinkler

**Director of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion in Engineering**

919-660-2939

karis.boydsinkler@duke.edu

### Quiana Tyson

**Assistant Director, DEI Programs and Initiatives**

919-660-5263

quiana.morton@duke.edu

## Duke Resources

### For the Pratt Community

  * Committee on Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
  * Accommodations for Disabilities
  * Resources for Duke Students
  * Maclin Endowment Fund
  * Department DEIC Efforts:
    * Duke Electrical & Computer Engineering (ECE)
    * Duke Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science (MEMS)

  * Duke's Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion
  * Office for Institutional Equity (OIE)
  * Resources for Understanding and Confronting Racism and Its Impact ( _from
    OIE_ )
  * Duke Center for Sexual & Gender Diversity
  * Faculty Academic Council Diversity Task Force Report (PDF)

### To Report a Complaint or Concern

  * Report an Incident

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Graduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 27, 2023 | Duke Interdisciplinary Studies

### Visualizing Hidden Risks

March 14, 2023

### The Unseen, Drawn into Focus

View all graduate news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

