Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About

Duke Electrical and Computer Engineering is dedicated to inclusive excellence

Working hand in hand with DEIC representatives from across Duke's Pratt School
of Engineering, Duke ECE offers many resources and opportunities to students
from underrepresented groups—from dedicated student organizations to
recruiting incentives and fellowships, and events and activities that
celebrate the diversity of our entire community.

Duke ECE regularly hosts action forums to discuss department policies and
practices, in order to ensure that these areas continue to evolve with input
from the engineering community.

  * More about Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Community at Duke Engineering
    »
  * Pratt School of Engineering's Committee on Diversity, Equity, Inclusion
    and Community »

Considering ECE at Duke?

    

We offer aggressive packages of fellowships, scholarships and incentives to
PhD and master's students from underrepresented groups, including women and
persons with disabilities.

These include:

  * Application fee waivers
  * Dean's Graduate Scholarship Program
  * Sloan Scholarship Program
  * Diversity Scholarships for our master's students
  * Assistance with applications for external competitive fellowships

LEARN MORE

Duke ECE Committee Members

    

Committee members support equity and inclusion efforts of the department,
including doctoral (PhD) fellowships for underrepresented groups and
recruiting incentives

### Nan Jokerst (Co-Chair)

(919) 660-5503

nan.jokerst@duke.edu

### Shani Daily (Co-Chair)

(202) 922-7339

shani.b@duke.edu

### Richard Fair

(919) 660-5277

rfair@ee.duke.edu

### Michael Gustafson

(919) 660-5354

mrg@duke.edu

### Dan Sorin

(919) 660-5439

sorin@ee.duke.edu

Have a Question, Concern, or Idea?

    

Liaisons serve as a voice for undergraduate students, graduate students,
faculty, and staff about challenges and opportunities in our community. Feel
free to reach out to any members who will relay to the Pratt DEIC committee.

  * Angela Chanh, lead
  * Hengming Li
  * Adrian Lopez
  * Guillermo Sapiro
  * Jamie Kay Wang

Student Organizations

    

#### Association for Women in Science (AWIS)

Duke is an institutional member of the Association for Women in Science and
individual memberships are free for Duke students, staff and faculty. AWIS
advocates for gender equity and the advancement of women in STEM fields, and
offers professional development, networking, mentorship, and leadership
opportunities.

* * *

#### Bouchet Society

The Duke University Bouchet Society primarily supports underrepresented
minority graduate students in the pursuit of scholarly excellence in the
Natural Sciences, Engineering, and Mathematics

* * *

#### Duke Technology Scholars Program

The Duke Technology Scholars Program is a comprehensive effort to empower the
next generation of diverse leaders who will bring increased innovation to the
tech industry.

The DTech program centers around the idea that community, mentorship and
hands-on experience make the difference in recruiting and retaining under-
represented people in technology fields.

  * Program Coordinator: Kelly Perri
  * Faculty Director: Dr. Shani Daily

* * *

#### ECE Advocacy for Student Engagement

EASE is a graduate student-led organization that aims to build a community
within the ECE department through hosting social, academic, wellbeing, and
outreach events.

* * *

#### Females and Allies Excelling More in Math, Engineering & Science
(FEMMES+)

Femmes+ focuses on enrichment and mentoring to high school-aged students. Duke
students lead camps, workshops and social and professional events.

* * *

#### Out For Undergrad (O4U)

Out for Undergrad is a national professional development program to help high-
performing LGBTQ undergraduate students reach their full potential. Admitted
O4U students take part in professional meetings produced with industry
partners. Applications to join the next O4U annual class open each March.

* * *

#### National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE)

Its mission is to increase the number of culturally responsible Black
Engineers who excel academically, succeed professionally, and positively
impact the community.

  * NSBE national organization
  * NSBE Duke chapter
  * President: Akylah Cox
  * Advisor: Dr. Adrienne Stiff-Roberts

* * *

#### Samuel Dubois Cook Society

Named in honor of the first black professor to be hired at Duke University,
the Samuel Dubois Cook Society is committed to translate the promise and
potential of African Americans into fulfillment and actuality, and to seek to
improve relations among persons of all backgrounds.

* * *

#### Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE)

The mission of SHPE is to change lives by empowering the Hispanic community to
realize its fullest potential and to impact the world through STEM awareness,
access, support and development.

  * President: Javier Franco
  * Advisor: Dr. Sophia Santillan

* * *

#### Society of Women Engineers (SWE)

The mission of SWE is to empower women to achieve full potential in careers as
engineers and leaders, expand the image of the engineering and technology
professions as a positive force in improving the quality of life, and
demonstrate the value of diversity and inclusion.

  * Duke Facebook page
  * Co-Presidents: Annika Hsu, Alexa Tannebaum
  * Advisor: Dr. Rebecca Simmons

## WHAT WE'RE READING...

### An Indigenous Peoples' History of the United States

by Roxanne Dunbar-Ortiz

The centuries-long genocidal program of the US settler-colonial regimen was
largely ignored until historian and activist Roxanne Dunbar-Ortiz. Dunbar-
Ortiz's history of the United States is told from the perspective of
Indigenous peoples and reveals how Native Americans, for centuries, actively
resisted expansion of the US empire.

This bottom-up peoples' history won a 2015 PEN Oakland-Josephine Miles Award
for Excellence in Literature.

Would you like to recommend a resource that raises awareness and/or supports
inclusive excellence in our community? Let us know!

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

