Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. Areas of Concentration
        3. Concentration in Machine Learning
        4. Minor in ECE
        5. Minor in Machine Learning & AI

      3. For Applicants
        1. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. What's the difference between CS and ECE?

      4. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Innovations in Remote Learning
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design
        5. Graduation with Distinction
        6. Awards and Honors

      5. Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Options
        1. Master of Science (MS)
        2. Master of Engineering (MEng)

      3. Areas of Study
        1. Software Development
        2. Hardware Design
        3. Data Analytics & Machine Learning
        4. Quantum Computing
        5. Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
        6. Design Your Own ECE Degree

      4. Master's Admissions
      5. Master's Career Outcomes
      6. Life at Duke
      7. Research Opportunities
      8. Graduate Courses
      9. Online Courses
  * PhD
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Requirements
      3. Academic Curricular Groups
      4. PhD Admissions
      5. Promoting an Inclusive Environment
      6. Meet Our Students
        1. PhD Awards and Honors

      7. PhD Career Outcomes
      8. Certificates & Training Programs
      9. Graduate Courses
      10. DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
      11. Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Overview
        1. AI/Machine Learning
        2. Metamaterials
        3. Quantum Computing
        4. Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
        5. Sensing & Imaging
        6. Trustworthy Computing

      2. Faculty Profiles
      3. Awards & Recognition
      4. Research News
      5. Ask an Expert
  * About
    *       1. From the Chair
      2. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke ECE Magazine

      3. Events
        1. Distinguished Speaker Series
        2. Seminars

      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Mission & Vision
      6. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      7. Entrepreneurship Success Stories
      8. Meet Our Alumni
      9. Industry Advisory Board

# Summer Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU)

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Undergraduate

A paid opportunity to spend early summer at Duke

## May 28 to July 29, 2023 | Apply by Feb. 15

Duke Electrical & Computer Engineering’s Research Experience for
Undergraduates (REU) is a _paid summer opportunity_ that brings undergraduates
into our research laboratories for nine weeks.

  * Work full-time on interesting projects, led by members of the Duke ECE
    faculty
  * Experience thought-provoking seminars and workshops
  * Participate in lab group meetings and discussions
  * Present your research findings at a special poster symposium

## Learn About Program Features

  * $600 per week stipend, paid at the start of the program
  * Housing and meals on the Duke campus
  * Travel reimbursement, up to $600
  * 2023 program dates: May 28 to July 29

## Determine Your Eligibility

To be eligible, an applicant must be:

  * An undergraduate student
  * Enrolled in an accredited college or university
  * A U.S. citizen or permanent resident

_Duke ECE strongly encourages students from groups underrepresented in the
practice of computer engineering and computer science to apply._

## Submit Your Application

Complete our online application, which includes:

  * Statement of purpose
  * Résumé
  * Contact information for a letter of recommendation

Submit your application before 11:59 pm ET, February 15, 2023.

Applicants will be notified by email of final decisions by April 15, 2023.

Apply Now

## Browse Project Summaries

Imaging Through Walls and Other Obstacles

    

The project involves radio frequency (RF) imaging through walls and other
obstacles. Experimental studies on visualizing various objects and materials
behind walls using millimeter waves will be pursued, as well as various
techniques of reconstructing and optimizing images from mm-wave measurements.

**What you'll do:** Assist in data taking, reconfiguring measurement setups,
and programming various instruments for automation

**What you'll learn:** Computational imaging and general radar techniques, and
can get involved at a deeper level in reconstruction efforts.

**What you should bring:** Students should be strongly self-motivated and
research-oriented. Strongly recommended: Experience with Python programming.
Helpful, but not required: Any knowledge of electromagnetic wave propagation
and experience with antennas or RF devices.

**Principal Investigator:** David Smith, James B. Duke Distinguished Professor
of Electrical & Computer Engineering

Retina-Like Semiconductor Devices for Image Processing and Object
Identification

    

The optoelectronic synapse is a novel device. Like the retina of the eye, it
can perform imaging and image processing using individual pixels. In this
project, we are fabricating optoelectronic synapses using two-dimensional (2D)
materials. We are optimizing the device performance through optical and
electrical engineering. We are building pixel arrays to demonstrate basic
image processing tasks, such as contrast enhancement, de-noising, and image
memorization. Our devices are the only kind that can operate from ultraviolet
(UV) to infrared (IR) wavelength ranges, because of the van der Waals
heterostructures used in these devices. Learn more »

**What you'll do:** Characterize the optoelectronic synapse pixels. Electrical
characterizations, such as Id-Vg and Id-Vd of transistors with and without
light, will be measured. Optoelectronic synapse characterizations by pulsing
electrical pulses in dark and under illumination, memory measurements, etc.,
will be performed by the undergrad.

**What you'll learn:** Transistor physics and device measurements.

**What you should bring:** Interests in transistor design and semiconductor
physics, self-motivation, and ability in meticulous record-keeping. Students
with a background in ECE 330L will be preferred.

**Principal Investigator:** Tania Roy, Assistant Professor of Electrical &
Computer Engineering

Intelligent Mobile Augmented Reality

    

Augmented reality (AR) is a rapidly developing technology area with the
potential for transforming many daily human experiences. While promising,
current AR systems are somewhat limited in their capabilities—in particular in
multi-user experiences, high energy consumption and general lack of robustness
and adaptability. The goal of this project is to obtain an in-depth
experimental understanding of the limitations of current augmented reality
experiences and to establish how these limitations can be addressed. Learn
more »

**What you'll do:** Experiment with different augmented reality applications,
experiences, and platforms to understand the systems and network loads of
different operations, key drivers of immersive user experiences, and the
potential of edge and cloud computing platforms to address the discovered
limitations. The project involves both the development of Unity-based
holographic experiences and real-world holographic deployments with Google
ARCore mobile device platforms and Magic Leap One headsets.

**What you should bring:** An experimental mindset and general software
development skills. Preferred but not required: background in communications
and/or networking, and familiarity with machine learning.

**Principal Investigator:** Maria Gorlatova, Nortel Networks Assistant
Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Building and Testing a Digital Twin for Reconfigurable Networks

    

This project will focus on building, enhancing, and testing Mininet-optical,
which is a prototype implementation of an emulator for packet optical
software-defined networks. Mininet-optical enables end-to-end emulation of a
software-defined network that includes optical network elements such as
reconfigurable optical add/drop multiplexers (ROADMs), optical transceivers,
fiber spans, packet software-defined networking (SDN) elements such as
OpenFlow switches and Ethernet links, and SDN controllers to manage both
packet and optical network elements.

**What you'll do:** Focus on building a digital twin of the physical COSMOS
advanced wireless-optical testbed using the Mininet-optical emulator. Design
and conduct measurements of various optical hardware and transceiver
performance. Analysis and modeling of the physical hardware in COSMOS and
incorporation of models into the Mininet-optical emulator. Comparison of the
end-to-end system performance in reconfigurable networks between real-world
measurements (using the physical testbed) and large-scale simulations (using
Mininet-optical as the digital twin of the testbed).

**What you should bring:** Experience with Python is required. Familiarity
with computer networks, software-defined networking (SDN), optical networking,
and ML will be a big plus.

**Principal Investigator:**Tingjun Chen, Assistant Professor of Electrical &
Computer Engineering

Control System Components for Quantum Computing with Trapped Ions

    

A key feature of an ion trap quantum computer is control software which
integrates laser modulation with externally-provided clock signals for high
performance of quantum gates. In this project, the student will integrate and
test control system components for quantum computing with trapped ions. Learn
more »

**What you'll do:** Integrate multi-tone radio frequency (RF) control cards
into our existing control architecture used to perform quantum gates. Develop
modular code in ARTIQ, control software for quantum systems that can be used
to control most aspects of trapped ion quantum computing from trapping fields
to state detection. The goal of this is to control Acousto-Optic Modulators
used to produce multi-tone laser light required for quantum gates on trapped
ion qubits.

**What you should bring:** Familiarity with Python. Familiarity with the
basics of analog and digital circuits. Interest in quantum computation and
developing the interdisciplinary solutions required to experimentally control
and manipulate trapped ion qubits. Interest in working with a team in a lab
environment. Interest in building scientific and professional communication
skills.

**Principal Investigator:** Crystal Noel, Assistant Professor of Electrical
and Computer Engineering ****

New Degrees of Freedom for Sculpting Optical Beams in Space and Time Beyond
Conventionally Used Amplitude, Phase and Polarization

    

The rapid development of optical technologies, such as optical manipulation
and trapping, data processing, optical sensing and metrology, enhanced imaging
and microscopy, as well as classical and quantum computing and communications,
necessitates fundamental studies of the new degrees of freedom for sculpting
optical beams in space and time beyond conventionally used amplitude, phase
and polarization. Topological particle-like objects in structured optical
fields have emerged as one of the most promising candidates for such degrees
of freedom. In this project, we will study “structured light and darkness,” or
2D vortex beams and 3D optical links, knots, and skyrmions. This research will
focus on the generation, detection, and linear and nonlinear light-matter
interactions of optical links, knots, and skyrmions in judiciously engineered
optical media such as optical metamaterials and metasurfaces.

**What you'll do:** Work with our graduate students and post-doctoral
researchers on the design, nanofabrication and optical characterization of
optical metasurfaces

**What you'll learn:** How to fabricate all-dielectric optical nanostructures
using electron beam lithography, build optical setups, and characterize the
intensity and the phase profiles of structured light beams

**What you should bring:** Interest in optics and photonic devices, and their
applications

**Principal Investigator:** Natalia Litchinitser, Professor of Electrical &
Computer Engineering

Improving the Morphology and Interfaces for Printed Nanomaterial-Based
Electronics

    

Many new electronic applications can be made possible with more affordable and
readily customizable circuits. These circuits do not necessarily need to
exhibit the high performance achieved with silicon-based Complementary Metal-
Oxide Semiconductor (CMOS) chips, but they do need to offer diverse
functionality and moderate performance at a low fabrication cost. Printing
electronics is a viable approach for enabling this new electronics era. For
decades, organic materials have been studied for their use in printed
electronics, but they suffer from compatibility issues for many applications
and considerable performance limitations. A more recent option has been to use
nanomaterials printed into thin films. Nanomaterials offer superior electronic
properties to bulk materials, including organic polymers, and are able to be
dispersed into a variety of inks for printability. Further, nanomaterials are
robust to extreme environments and highly compatible with a nearly endless
variety of integration schemes. Entirely new applications, from highly
sensitive biomedical diagnostics to sensors for harsh environments, can be
enabled with a printed nanomaterial-based electronics technology. This project
will involve the exploration of custom ink formulations consisting of
nanomaterials that can be printed with an aerosol jet printer into thin-film
transistors. Learn more »

**What you'll do:** Work directly with a PhD student to optimize nanomaterial-
based inks, and print them into functional transistors and biosensors ( _e.g._
, electronic immunoassays or bioFETs). You'll print the optimized inks in
various types of carbon nanotube thin-film transistors. A series of electrical
(I-V, C-V sweeps) and physical (SEM, Raman) measurement tools will be used to
evaluate the electrical and structural performance of the printed films and
devices. The printing process requires training and customization of several
key steps, including printing conditions, film curing, and integration
sequence. The student will also be expected to take part in discussions where
results will be analyzed and new ideas potentially formulated for inclusion in
the project.

**What you should bring:** An ideal candidate would have some previous
knowledge and experience in solid-state physics, including carrier transport
in semiconductors, previous knowledge and/or interest in electronics, and be
competent in (or confident and willing to learn) operating complex tools. They
should also be self-motivated and maintain a strong work ethic in terms of
commitment and follow-through. A collaborative, team player is a must.

**Principal Investigator:** Aaron Franklin, Addy Professor of Electrical &
Computer Engineering ****

Using AI and ML to Mitigate the Impacts of Reverberation and Noise on Speech
Recognition for Individuals With Cochlear Implants

    

Cochlear implants (CIs) can restore hearing to individuals with severe hearing
loss. Most cochlear implant users have good speech recognition in quiet
conditions; however, they struggle to understand speech in challenging
listening environments with noise and reverberation. While commercially
available CIs have incorporated technical solutions to reduce background
noise, there is currently no effective solution that directly addresses
reverberation in CIs. The main challenge in developing a solution to mitigate
reverberation is the task of distinguishing wanted speech from unwanted speech
with similar characteristics: reverberant speech reflections are
echoes—attenuated and delayed copies—of the target speech that a listener is
trying to understand. Recent years have seen successful applications of
artificial intelligence/machine learning for smart voice assistants that rely
on the predictability of speech for automatic speech recognition of words to
execute voice commands. Based on a similar concept of a “smart” CI, this
project will leverage real-time automatic recognition of phonemes—the smallest
unit of speech—to improve reverberant speech enhancement in CIs.

**What you'll learn:** Facts about reverberation, sound processing in a CI, an
acoustic model to simulate CI processing, and training machine-learning models
for speech enhancement within the CI processing pipeline. Students will
explore the utility of framewise phoneme predictions to improve reverberant
speech enhancement in CIs.

**What you should bring:** Communication, interpersonal and analytical skills.
**** Interest in biomedical application/multidisciplinary project. Some
experience with digital signal processing and machine learning. The scope of
the project will be tailored to the student’s background. Experience with
MATLAB and Python is preferred.

**Principal Investigators:**

  * Leslie Collins, Professor of Electrical & Computer Engineering
  * Boyla Mainsah, Assistant Research Professor of Electrical & Computer
    Engineering

## More Opportunities at Duke

  * REU for Meeting the Grand Challenges »

## REU Contact

### Matthew Novik

919-660-1801  
matthew.novik@duke.edu

## Undergraduate Contact

### Lisa Gresham Huettel

Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School Professor of the Practice of Electrical and
Computer Engineering

__919-660-5237

__lisa.huettel@duke.edu

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * Areas of Concentration
      * Concentration in Machine Learning
      * Minor in ECE
      * Minor in Machine Learning & AI
    * For Applicants
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
      * What's the difference between CS and ECE?
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Innovations in Remote Learning
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Awards and Honors
    * Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
  * Master's
    * Overview
    * Degree Options
      * Master of Science (MS)
      * Master of Engineering (MEng)
    * Areas of Study
      * Software Development
      * Hardware Design
      * Data Analytics & Machine Learning
      * Quantum Computing
      * Microelectronics, Photonics & Nanotechnology
      * Design Your Own ECE Degree
    * Master's Admissions
    * Master's Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * Research Opportunities
    * Graduate Courses
    * Online Courses
  * PhD
    * Overview
    * Degree Requirements
    * Academic Curricular Groups
    * PhD Admissions
    * Promoting an Inclusive Environment
    * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Awards and Honors
    * PhD Career Outcomes
    * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Graduate Courses
    * DEEP SEA Startup Accelerator
    * Career & Professional Services
  * Faculty & Research
    * Overview
      * AI/Machine Learning
      * Metamaterials
      * Quantum Computing
      * Nanoelectronic Materials & Devices
      * Sensing & Imaging
      * Trustworthy Computing
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
    * Research News
    * Ask an Expert
  * About
    * From the Chair
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke ECE Magazine
    * Events
      * Distinguished Speaker Series
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Facts & Stats
    * Mission & Vision
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * Entrepreneurship Success Stories
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Industry Advisory Board

