

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Memo to Pratt Faculty: COVID-19 Teaching and Research Updates

_March 13, 2020_

Dear Pratt faculty,

As the Duke community works quickly to respond to the coronavirus situation,
we are writing with additional information relevant to research and teaching
within Pratt. This is a rapidly evolving situation, but the following
information is current as of March 13, 2020.

Duke-wide updates are available at coronavirus.duke.edu.

## PRATT SCHOOL RESEARCH UPDATES

Duke University has published substantial guidance related to research
operations at research.duke.edu/coronavirus-research-FAQ. Below are additional
details to assist Pratt faculty in implementing this guidance:

### Graduate Students and Research Staff in Pratt Labs

Duke research labs are currently open. Our post-doctoral fellows, research
staff, PhD and master’s students are permitted on campus to perform
laboratory-based research, and will have access to facilities based on their
DukeCard.

However, our first priority is the health and well-being of our students,
faculty and staff:

  * Faculty mentors should be flexible with lab members, especially those who
    may be at higher risk or have special concerns. We encourage using online
    communications tools so that student and staff researchers can work
    remotely for all or part of their time.
  * If students or staff need to be in the lab, lab teams should discuss ways
    to promote good lab hygiene and enable social distancing through options
    such as taking shifts. Duke has published specific guidance under
    “Laboratory Operations Changes.”
  * While current policy permits meetings with fewer than 50 Duke faculty,
    staff or students, consider using Zoom for lab meetings if this is more
    comfortable for your team under the current circumstances.
  * Graduate students doing non-laboratory-based research should work
    remotely. Students are not permitted to return to Pratt buildings to meet
    with colleagues, work independently outside a faculty-directed lab, or
    socialize

### Undergraduate Research and Independent Study

Undergraduates may not return to campus research labs, even if they are
currently in town or in the Duke dorms. Undergraduate students who are
conducting independent studies or research projects for a class in a
professor’s lab must be provided distance options to complete their work, such
as data analysis or a research paper. ****

### Summer Research Programs

Decisions regarding **** summer research programs, including Pratt Fellows,
will be made at a later date (likely early-mid April).

### Lab Members Returning After Travel

Given the rapid spread of coronavirus, follow Duke’s guidelines for returning
students or staff who may have traveled during Spring Break. Note that the CDC
has expanded Level 3 travel warnings to additional countries as of this
morning. Visit wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/notices for the latest updates.

### Preparing Labs and Contingency Planning for Possible Closure

While we hope that campus closure does not happen, it is prudent to plan ahead
for that possibility:

  * Take stock of critical supplies or procedures
  * If you have not done so, please provide your department chair or business
    manager with the names of students or staff who need access in the event
    of an emergency or campus closure
  * In the event of a campus closure, prioritize current experiments
  * For those doing biological work, consider freezing cells or other reagents
  * Note that essential services such as electricity, water, gases,
    cryogenics, and feeding and caring of animals in the vivarium will
    continue to be provided
  * Packages sent to department offices will be available for pickup and
    storage in the lab

Overall, clear communication about lab procedures and contingency plans will
help your group in navigating the current situation.

## PRATT SCHOOL TEACHING UPDATES

### Compressed Semester Schedule

Pratt graduate and undergraduate courses will begin in an online format March
23. Graduate courses will end on April 15 and undergraduate courses on April
22, as scheduled.

At present, all other Duke courses will begin March 23 EXCEPT in Divinity,
Fuqua, Law and Nursing. Classes resume online on March 16 for students taking
courses in those schools.

### Individual Class Schedules

In order to implement remote instruction, each faculty member will determine
the format of the course they are teaching. Some faculty may choose
synchronous delivery of lectures/classes (i.e. to all students at once in
real-time), some asynchronous (i.e., students work independently on their own
time), and some a combination of both. Synchronous classes must be delivered
during the regularly scheduled class time. Duke is asking faculty teaching
synchronously to make a recording available for students in other time zones.
Students will not be penalized if they are in a different time zone and
require an asynchronous experience.

### Online Teaching Support

  * Duke Learning Innovation has launched a keepteaching.duke.edu website to
    provide resources for online teaching, as announced in a 3/12 Provost’s
    Memo
  * For laboratory and design classes, each department is taking the lead in
    developing accommodation strategies. Please consult your DUS and
    department chair for guidance
  * Duke Engineering online education director La Tondra Murray and Pratt IT
    director Jim Daigle have provided additional recommendations for Pratt
    faculty: See Remote Teaching Resources
  * Live training sessions for faculty members interested in learning about
    Zoom are offered regularly. Register here (scroll to the “Zoom Meetings
    for Education” link). You can also watch a recording of a previous
    training session
  * At this time, Pratt School buildings are accessible to you with a
    DukeCard. Faculty who wish to use Panopto-enabled classrooms to record and
    distribute lectures should contact Pratt IT at help@pratt.duke.edu for
    assistance

**Graduate School policy updates** affecting PhD and MS education are
available at gradschool.duke.edu/student-life/coronavirus-information

**Undergraduate Student guidance** and FAQs are available at
coronavirus.duke.edu

We know this is an unprecedented situation for all of us, and appreciate
everything you are doing to help make these rapid transitions as smooth as
possible for our students, staff and each other. Please do not hesitate to
contact us or your department chair if you have additional questions or
suggestions.

With our sincere thanks,

_Ravi Bellamkonda  
Vinik Dean of Engineering _

_George Truskey  
Sr. Associate Dean for Research _

_Jennifer West  
Associate Dean for PhD Education_

_Jeff Glass  
Sr. Associate Dean for Education & Learning Innovation_

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

