

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » Podcast

# How Re-engineered Ketchup Packets Are Saving Babies Worldwide

October 20, 2021

Duke Biomedical Engineering Professor Emeritus Bob Malkin and a string of
undergraduates have built a program to deliver anti-HIV medication to birthing
mothers in rural settings around the world

## Listen

## Transcript

[Bells/intro music]

 **Ken Kingery:** Hello, and welcome to Rate of Change, a podcast from Duke
Engineering, dedicated to the ingenious ways that engineers are solving
society's toughest problems. I’m your host for today’s episode, Ken Kingery.

This episode has just about everything you could want in a story. Saving lives
and preventing people from contracting a deadly disease? Check. Undergraduates
getting a chance to make an impact on the entire world? Check. A deep dive
into the tiny notch that helps you open a ketchup packet? Now we’re talking
engineering. And as so many collaborations do, this story begins around a
water cooler. So let’s jump right in with Bob Malkin, professor of the
practice emeritus of biomedical engineering and founder of Duke’s programs
Engineering World Health and the Global Public Service Academies.

 **Bob Malkin:** So you know what began when I was at a meeting I was at a
scientific meeting and I was standing at the coffee pot. Which was what I do a
lot of the time when I’m at a scientific meeting, I find some of the most
valuable conversations I have are actually out by the coffee or not in the
sessions.

 **Kingery:** It was probably the consortium of global health universities
conference, but he’s not completely sure. It was, after all, almost a decade
and a half ago. So we’ll cut him some slack.

 **Malkin:** And I met a woman who was working on a project to try to provide
single doses of Nevirapine to mothers who were at risk for HIV positive and a
risk of delivering their babies at home.

 **Kingery:** When Professor Malkin says “home,” he’s generally referring to
low-income countries, especially in East and Southern Africa, where there are
more than 20 million people living with HIV as of 2019. That’s almost seven
percent of the population in the prime reproductive ages between 15 and 49.
And when those people do have children, it’s not a given that they will pass
on the infection. If a newborn can receive the right dose of antiviral
medications at the right times, the disease can be prevented. Without them,
the risk of HIV transmission is as high as 45 percent. But with their proper
use, the risk drops to less than five percent. Prevention gives children the
best chance at survival, as more than half of HIV-infected children die before
age two. And Nevirapine was the first of these drugs to be approved, meaning
it had already come off patent and was cheap to come by.

 **Malkin:** And the idea was that Nevirapine was known to prevent the
transmission of HIV from the mother to the child. And it was it was effective,
but it was also known that all of the standard approaches to delivering the
medication were failing. So if you think about your childhood, your Mom
probably gave you medication in a spoon, perhaps in a, I don't know, a
dropper, maybe a…

 **Kingery:** Spoon full of sugar?

 **Malkin:** Yeah, yeah. Nevirapine’s already pretty sweet so, probably
wouldn't want to add sugar. But it turns out, all of these standard methods
destroy the medication. So the effort was failing, and moms who are delivering
in home—which is actually quite common even today in Africa, for example, and
in other places as well—they had nothing. And their kids were at high risk of
becoming HIV positive. So USAID, the United States Government, funded a
project to try to determine a way to provide single-dose Nevirapine to babies.
And that project was failing. By the time I was talking to this woman at the
coffee pot, she and her team had worked on it for seven years and everything
failed.

 **Kingery:** Professor Malkin didn’t know why exactly their efforts were
failing, but he had some ideas. Perhaps something about evaporation or the way
the medication was being handled was destroying it. And, crucially, they were
all testable.

 **Malkin:** So I brought it back to Duke and there was a student Michael
Spohn, who was a mechanical engineering student and looking for an independent
study project. And Michael and I both thought, you know it take take a little
bit of time to set up, maybe a month or two to set up a really good experiment
to shut these processes down, and then we can take a look at data. Turned out
it was more like a year and a half to set up the experiment, so we can be very
confident that, you know, we knew what we were doing. But Michael set up to
experiment. He shut down evaporation, he shut down the loss of
preservatives…and neither of those hypotheses were correct. It became clear
very quickly—once we had the data was actually pretty obvious what the problem
actually was—and in fact I would say within about a minute of having the data
and determining what actually was the problem, we were able to design the
Pratt Pouch—at least that sketch of the design of the Pratt Pouch, and a
solution to the problem.

 **Kingery:** The problem, believe it or not, had more to do with how paint
dries than any sort of complicated biochemical reaction.

 **Malkin:** The problem had to do with volume-to-volume ratio, or the similar
problem, the analogy that I like to use which many people are familiar with is
the surface-to-volume ratio. So if you, for example, go to Home Depot or any
kind of store and buy yourself a gallon of paint it will come as a liquid. As
soon as you spread that on your wall, it will become a solid. The reason or a
reason that it makes that transition from a liquid to a solid is you're going
from a can, which has a relatively small surface area with a large volume, to
the wall, where you have a relatively large surface area for a small volume.
And the paint then undergoes a transition when you change that surface-to-
volume ratio. That's what was happening to the medication. Slightly more
complicated, but that's what was happening into the medications. The
medication was actually exposed to a change when it was removed from the
bottle into this packaging—syringe, cup, spoon or whatever—that change in
shape, if you will, or storage conditions, was causing the medication to
precipitate or causing the medication to change from a liquid to a solid.

 **Kingery:** Professor Malkin explained that in a typical health care
setting, the medication would be taken directly from the bottle and provided
immediately to the baby in the hospital. Or in other words, the paint was
immediately applied to the wall from the can. But in some places in Africa,
where women travel long distances for even routine health checkups and usually
give birth at home, doctors were trying to give this medication weeks or even
months before it was going to be used.

So after three semesters of undergraduate student Michael Spohn working to
discover the problem, he then turned to working on a solution with Professor
Malkin. In short, they had to design some sort of container that would keep
the paint in liquid form even after it left the original container. And
whatever the solution was, it had to be biologically inert, free from
contamination, easy to use, and cheap enough to deploy on a large scale.

 **Malkin:** So you know we both were familiar with packaging like what you
get when you go to a fast food restaurant. They have ketchup or there's many
other actually things—there’s salad dressing and there's these other packages
that you've probably seen yourself, where you tear it open in a corner and
pour it out. The critical thing about some of those packages, is that they
have at least three layers and typically they're going to be five layers. The
first layer is this plastic, which actually contacts the contents. There’s an
adhesive layer. Then there's an aluminum foil layer, which prevents water from
getting out and oxygen and light from getting in. And then most typically
there's going to be another layer as a plastic layer over that which doesn't
matter too much that's mostly to protect the aluminum foil, which is quite
thin. Just a mill or even less, I think it's it might only be eight microns
thick. And then we actually put some markings on the outside so moms have some
clues about how to use the device. So this is a pretty well developed
technology. And it's specifically aimed at this problem—controlling what
access the contents have to the plastic but also exposure to oxygen, air, and
light, and things like that. So we immediately suspected that this packaging
would work in this case. There are available packaging for food—which is
usually what is used actually for pharmaceuticals is food packaging—that and,
as I mentioned, like salad dressing ketchup, mayonnaise, mustard – actually
mustard is not in these packages

 **Kingery:** The reason for this, by the way, remains a mystery to me.

 **Malkin:** But other things which are packaged like that. So this was a
readily available technology. And, importantly for us, it is a technology that
is relatively easily implemented. In other words you don't need a huge
manufacturing facility to fill and seal these packages. So we envisioned very
quickly, after only a few months of additional research, that we could
actually set up a plant quickly—in Africa or wherever—to fill and seal these
with the right amount of material.

 **Kingery:** So there you have it. A simple, elegant solution that was
immediately able to be implemented and save lives. Except, of course, life is
rarely that easy.

 **Malkin:** Though you and I might be quite familiar with ketchup or
mayonnaise or salad dressing in one of these packages, that doesn't mean
someone who is delivering their baby at home in Africa is. So we had a
question, you know, could moms really do this? And then there's still was also
a question of could the empty the contents because we're one of the dose to be
accurate. So we wanted babies to get the right amount. So the mom had to be
able to tear it open while holding the baby, dribble the contents into the
mouth, while emptying the entire pouch into the mouth of the baby. So there
were you know some challenge—and that's all in addition to accomplishing the
main goal, which was to actually store the medication successfully. So we had
these three big questions which still needed to be answered, about the design.

 **Kingery:** So at this point, the project is already almost two years into
its life. The problem has been identified, and has a potential solution. Now
comes the not-so-simple process of engineering a fool-proof system that meets
all of the rigorous medical standards that come with packaging, storing and
delivering life-saving mediation. And that took about another five years of
rigorous engineering.

 **Malkin:** So there are five layers in the basic pouch, and all five of
them, I think we changed. So we probably tried 20 or 30 permutations.

The outer coating, we changed. It turns out that the outer plastic affects
tearing and how easily the moms can tear the pouch.

Also there's typically a notch, which you may not think much about. But that
notch and the shape of that notch varies between different materials. So we
needed to find a material that really preserved the medication really well,
but was really easy for the moms to tear open, which are conflicting
objectives.

There are many different sealing technologies. And so we went through three or
four different sealing technologies, as well as two or three different filling
technologies for the pharmacist to fill.

 **Kingery:** And then there was the problem of the ink.

 **Malkin:** We wanted to print on the outside, instructions to the mom. So
the cheapest way to do that is to take a roll of the original material—which
comes in these huge rolls—and my meaning many feet across and several feet in
diameter. Thousands of pounds these roles weight. They stick them on a
machine, they run at a high speed, and they print all of the outside packaging
printing on the outside. Then they reroll the package and send it off to a
different machine to cut and seal the three sides. Well, at the moment when
they reroll that roll, the outside of one pouch touches the inside of the next
pouch. That means that the ink that you use to print has to be compatible with
the medication you're going to later store inside the pouch. The first
iteration, that wasn't true, we used a randomly selected ink and of course it
destroyed the medication. None of us realized that they rerolled the roll
before putting it on the next machine to cut and seal the pouches. So yes,
very specific. It took a long time to get every one of these processes from
the shape of the notch to printing the instructions.

 **Kingery:** To design the best Pratt Pouch possible, the team’s decisions
needed to be driven by actual data from actual women. Which meant they needed
help. They got volunteer moms to try to use the packets to deliver the
medication to dolls as practice…and eventually to real babies in Africa…which
actually resulted in quite a few failures early on. That led to a redesign in
the labeling instructions.

 **Malkin:** To even the shape of the pouch itself, so that moms could one-
handed squeeze the pouch and empty the contents. Turns out that if it's wider
and shorter, or longer and thinner, moms are more or less successful at
emptying all the contents into the baby's mouth. Different than, for example,
emptying the contents onto a hamburger, where it doesn't matter very much with
the empty all the contents, and the hamburger is not squirming in your lap.

 **Kingery:** Right, sure, I don't think I ever get all the ketchup out of any
of those packets so…

 **Malkin:** But it matters. Dosing matters for this medication. So it's not
like ketchup, where you could just open up another pouch, squeeze some more
ketchup on your french fries. Here you want the baby to get exactly the right
dose. So this emptying percentage is a really important number for us.

 **Kingery:** 5000 opened pouches were analyzed on a microscopic scale to
determine how exactly the packets were getting opened. For example, how much
tear force was used, how long was the tear and how many failures to tear
occurred. Later on in the process, when trials had moved from dolls to live
babies, blood samples were taken from babies’ heels to determine if the
medication was indeed getting into their bloodstream correctly. High-
performance liquid chromatography tests made sure that the medication was in
fact still intact a year after being packaged.

And besides collaborating with healthcare workers in Africa or industrial
companies for the more complicated tests, almost all of this was still being
led by a string of bright, enterprising Duke undergraduates.

 **Malkin:** There were maybe some graduate students involved as well,
especially later in the process when we got into field trials. So actually
going to these places and collecting the data. But, yeah, I mean I had
undergraduates year after year who would pick up the project.

 **Kingery:** But engineering problems weren’t the only challenges that needed
to be overcome. While the drug itself was approved in every country they
wanted to use it in, the packaging was new. And every country in the world has
its own equivalent of the FDA that needs to provide approvals.

 **Malkin:** And this varied from Zambia, for example, which took about four
hours to get approval. So between us requesting approval and its availability
in the market took about four hours. And at the other extreme is Tanzania,
which took three years to get approval for distribution of the Pratt Pouch on
the Tanzanian market.

 **Kingery:** Despite all the challenges over more than a decade’s worth of
work, the Pratt Pouch program is now up and running in Ecuador and Uganda with
the help of grants from sources like the National Institutes of Health and
USAID. Tens of thousands of babies have received antivirals. In Kampala,
Uganda, semi-custom equipment assembled by Duke graduates are capable of
reaching more than 10,000 infants each year. And for all they know, that’s
just the tip of the iceberg.

 **Malkin:** However, keep in mind the technology is completely open source.
We very early on decided not to use any sort of intellectual property
protection. All of the designs, all of the usage, the labeling—everything is
open source. So anyone can actually go on to our site, download all the data,
download all the designs, order themselves up some pouches and start getting
them approved in their country for use and distributing them. So in fact
they're there can be and could be many places using them that I wouldn't know
about.

 **Kingery:** As for the programs they do know about, Professor Malkin’s goal
is to reach at least 80 percent of HIV –positive moms in Ecuador and Uganda.
He also has his sights set on setting up new programs in additional countries.
But as have all things planned for the past couple of years, the pandemic has
brought them to a virtual standstill.

 **Malkin:** Normally we are very active in expanding use of the pouch in
trying new variations with it, to make sure that they are or are not
compatible, like antibiotics, for example, TB meds. However, almost all of
that work has stopped right now. The way that we have driven the project from
the beginning is undergraduates at Duke, and we do have an undergraduate
working on the program right now, but the majority of that was field work.
Most of the work was going into the field traveling. And right now that's just
not possible for the undergraduates at Duke. Once this situation resolves and,
you know, I assume we are going to all get back to kind of a normal life. I
don't exactly k now when but, once we do, I fully assume that we're going to
get back to having the students travel, getting field data once we're able to
gather data in the field, then we can also go back to writing grants and
really supporting the operation fully.

 **Kingery:** But as any good engineer knows, almost all problem have a
solution if you’re willing to put in the time and effort required to find it.

 **Malkin:** Absolutely, so we will not you know sort of rest, if you will, on
this project, because there are still millions of mothers delivering their
babies, who are HIV positive. Those babies at risk of themselves becoming HIV
positive and the moms aren't getting access to the medication problem is quite
severe right now, because of coven, but it is going to. Continue we our goal
is to see that every mom is able to medicate their kid and prevent the kid
from being HIV positive, so we have a long way to go, there is no really end
in sight to this problem and, as I said, that's only one issue, there are also
issues with TV men's for children, there are issues with antibiotics for
children, so there are a lot of access issues that the pouch may be able to
solve.

 **Kingery:** That’s the show for today. I hope you’ve enjoyed hearing about
how just one conversation around a coffee stand with the right people can
inspire a string of undergraduate engineers to change the world. If you want
to learn more about Professor Malkin’s work and the Pratt Pouch, you can keep
up with their progress at pratt.duke.edu. And if you want to hear more
inspiring stories such as this one, I encourage you to subscribe to this
podcast.

Thanks for listening.

## Featured Faculty

### Robert A. Malkin

Professor of Practice Emeritus in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

View profile »

Subscribe to the _**Rate of Change**_ podcast in Apple Podcasts or Google
Play:

_The Apple logo is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other
countries. Google Podcasts and the Google Podcasts logo are trademarks of
Google LLC._

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

