Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Biomedical Engineering in the Virtual World

October 7, 2020 | Michaela Kane

With the onset of a global pandemic, Duke BME faculty, staff and students
quickly adapted in-person courses, programs and projects into an online format

Biomedical engineering students at Duke University don’t typically learn
engineering concepts from a video of a lab manager pushing a cart filled with
plush toys, but the 2020 Spring semester was anything but typical.

As the novel coronavirus began to spread around the globe in early March,
universities around the country began to transition their in-person classes
into online formats to limit risks for students. For biomedical engineers at
Duke, this meant that faculty and staff who typically teach lab-focused
courses had to find new and creative ways to virtually convey complicated
concepts to their students.

Enter Marcus Henderson, the senior lab manager in Duke BME and the main star
of a video series created for BME 302: Biomechanics.

“Usually students would use accelerometers to measure velocity of their fellow
students, but with social distancing guidelines that wouldn’t be possible,”
says Henderson. “Instead, we filmed a video where I pushed a cart filled with
stuffed animals that are holding a Wii-mote. The students integrated the
accelerations from this remote to get velocity, and then integrated again to
find the traveled distance.

> “It’s obviously not as great as an in-person course, but we found that these
> videos give students a clearer example of the engineering and physics
> they’re trying to learn, rather than just reading about the concepts in a
> textbook.”

“I was really pleased that the demo aspect of the course was still included,”
says Emily Barre, a rising senior in BME who took BME 302. “The videos with
Marcus Henderson were really thorough, and it was helpful to be able to
visualize more abstract concepts.”

Matt Brown completes ultrasound experiments with student projects

In addition to videos recorded at Duke, some faculty and staff, like Matt
Brown, a fellow senior lab manager, created makeshift labs in their own homes
to provide a more customized experience for students. For the lab portions of
BME 303L: Modern Diagnostic Systems, Brown used an ultrasound scanner to
identify hidden objects in projects that students had remotely 3D-printed,
which helped them learn how to interpret ultrasound images.

“Matt Brown was able to host a few live sessions with students and do
individual demos, so it felt like a really personalized learning experience,”
says Corey Simmerer, a rising senior in BME and ECE who took BME 303L. “It
ended up being much better than I expected.

Libby Bucholz, an assistant professor of the practice in Duke BME and the
primary instructor for BME 303L, also made strategic changes to the course to
ensure that students remained engaged in the content, even if the delivery
format was less-than-ideal. In addition to using breakout rooms to allow
students to work together on handouts and other assignments, Bucholz involved
the class in MRI demonstrations so they could learn how to use the imaging
technique. Most notably, she adapted the final project from a simple
PowerPoint presentation into something a bit more fun.

“One student adapted a One Direction song into a music video that explained CT
scans, while others used their phone cameras and MATLAB to show what is seen
through different scanners,” says Bucholz. “I think it’s something I’ll do
again next year, regardless of whether the pandemic continues.”

Although it was easier to adapt some courses to the virtual format than
others, students did notice that working online allowed them to connect more
easily with faculty and staff if they had questions.

“I found it was much easier to speak with faculty because they had a much
wider variety of office hours available,” says Simmerer. “All of these
extended efforts made it clear that faculty and staff were making an
additional effort to give students a quality learning experience, even if
things were less than ideal.”

But these changes weren’t just felt by undergraduate students. To earn their
PhD, graduate students must defend their dissertation in front of a committee
of faculty with relevant knowledge of their research. Friends and family often
attend these meetings so they can celebrate with their graduate once they
pass. But in the age of social distancing, these in-person events were no
longer possible.

“I was able to virtually defend my thesis on March 27th, and that essentially
meant hosting a large Zoom meeting where the faculty would watch me present
and then ask questions about the research,” says Bridget Crawford, a recent
PhD graduate of Duke BME. “I think defending in my own home removed some of
the stress from an otherwise very stressful event, and although I wish I could
have presented in person, I’m glad that I was able to defend in a way that
kept my family, friends, colleagues and committee members safe."

Although students saw firsthand that virtual learning had its limitations,
they credit the Duke BME faculty and staff for their work to make the new
format as helpful as possible.

“I acknowledge that my experience was relatively smooth, and that it can’t
begin to capture what everyone has gone through in these last few months,”
says Barre. “I think the faculty did the best they could for what was clearly
an unprecedented situation, and the experience really illustrates that Duke
engineers are invested in creating innovative solutions to these life-changing
problems.”

Read additional stories from this issue

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

