Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Developing Diagnostics to Catch COVID-19

October 7, 2020 | Michaela Kane

Supported by a RAPID Response NSF research grant, the Chilkoti lab aims to
make a faster, more efficient test to detect the novel coronavirus

In December of 2019, researchers identified a cluster of people sick with a
never-before-seen coronavirus in Wuhan, China. By March, what was once a small
outbreak had flamed into a global pandemic, prompting the World Health
Organization to make emergency declarations, and for cities and countries
across the world to issue stay-at-home orders to help limit the virus’s
spread.

For many students at Duke University, the unprecedented circumstances meant
completing course work, classes and research projects from home and
communicating with colleagues, faculty and fellow students through a plethora
of virtual platforms.

But for Cassio Fontes, a PhD student in the department of biomedical
engineering, the emergency instead prompted a question from his advisor,
Ashutosh Chilkoti: Could Fontes use the lab’s signature diagnostic platform to
detect the novel coronavirus?

Fontes had spent the last six years in the Chilkoti lab working with the D4
assay, a portable diagnostic tool that can detect the markers of diseases as
accurately as the most sensitive tests on the market, but at a much faster
rate––shortening a wait time of hours or even days to just 30 minutes.

Cassio Fontes displays the D4 assay

The test operates by detecting low levels of antigens, the protein markers of
disease, from a single drop of blood or a throat or nose swab sample. Two
types of antibodies are printed on the tool’s surface––capture antibodies and
detection antibodies, which are tagged with a fluorescent marker. When a
sample is placed on the slide, the detection antibodies separate from the
array and bind to the target proteins. These antibody-protein pairs then
attach to the capture antibodies on the slide, which can be examined via a
handheld scanner.

Unlike other antigen diagnostic tests, the D4 assay is printed on a polymer
brush coating, which prevents the non-target proteins from attaching to the
slide’s surface. This gets rid of the ‘background noise’ on the chip, making
it easier to detect lower levels of the target proteins.

“The tests that we’ve developed with the D4 are about 200- to 500-fold more
sensitive than other diagnostic tests,” says Fontes. “Ebola had great
antibodies to work with, and our test was so effective that we could beat the
PCR test, which is the most sensitive test that exists.”

With that success in mind, Fontes and the Chilkoti lab went to work exploring
if they could rapidly adapt their tool to potentially catch a brand-new virus.

> “The D4 assay took six years to develop, but when the WHO declared the
> outbreak a pandemic, we began working to compress all of that work into a
> few weeks so we could explore how the test could be used as a public health
> tool.”
>
> Ashutosh Chilkoti, Alan L. Kaganov Distinguished Professor of Biomedical
> Engineering & Chair of Duke BME

Their first step involved identifying potential antibodies that could pair
with a synthetic version of the proteins expressed by SARS-Cov-2, the virus
that causes COVID-19.

“In the preliminary tests that we ran in early March, we showed that the
existing antibodies developed for SARS, another coronavirus that was
identified in 2003, could effectively detect and capture the synthetic
versions of the COVID-19 viral proteins,” says Fontes. “The initial connection
wasn’t as well-matched as the Ebola tests, but the D4 is so sensitive that it
compensates for the less-than-ideal antibody match and we were able to make a
proof-of-concept.”

Jake Heggestad (left) and David Kinnamon (right) are PhD students in the
Chilkoti lab. They joined the project over the summer, and they worked to
optimize the design and improve the accuracy of the D4 COVID-19 test.

By the end of April, the team had received a RAPID Response Research grant
from the National Science Foundation to support their work with the test. With
the $119,000 grant, the team was able to continue to optimize their platform.
They also began developing a separate serological test on the platform, which
uses pairs of antigens to detect and capture antibodies associated with
COVID-19. According to the team, the serological test was useful because could
indicate if a patient previously had a COVID-19 infection or was a carrier for
the virus, while the original version of the test could detect a current
infection.

“People have run into problems with some of the serological tests, where they
haven’t been particularly accurate, but we’ve been able to use the D4 to try
and give a quantitative measurement of those antibodies,” says David Kinnamon,
a PhD student in the Chilkoti lab who also helped lead the D4-COVID project.
“We’ve also been able to expand the user-friendliness of the platform, as the
initial version required a modest amount of lab space and hands-on time. Our
newversion has been adapted for a microfluidic platform that automates all
steps between adding the sample and measurement.”

Although Chilkoti has said that it’s difficult to predict when a clinically
available test might be available, a collaboration with Chris Woods, MD, a
clinical investigator and professor of Global Health and Medicine and the
Chief of the Infectious Diseases Division at the VA Medical Center, will allow
them to continue to validate their platform using patient samples.

“Our goal is to test at least 30 samples from patients that tested positive
for the coronavirus, and 30 samples from patients that tested negative,” says
Jake Heggestad, another PhD student in the Chilkoti lab who is helping lead
the project. “The antibodies that we’ve been using in the lab aren’t a perfect
match for the antibodies found in patients, but they’re fairly similar.
Ideally we’ll be able to correctly identify the positives and negatives and
then publish our findings. We have started the clinical validation of the
platform and so far, the results are exactly as expected. More tests are
needed, but the initial results are very promising."

If initial tests work well, the team is interested in starting a study at Duke
where they’ll be able to test larger populations, which will help them
continue to refine and update their prototypes.

“This is a huge societal and public health challenge, and I believe that those
of us who create these types of technologies have a responsibility to act,”
says Chilkoti. “Our test is designed to be both adaptable and truly point-of-
care, and this is clearly a scenario when a portable, fast and cost-effective
diagnostic would be most useful. I’m grateful that the support from the
National Science Foundation allows an opportunity to explore how our platform
could be adapted to address these challenges.”

## Read more stories about the D4 assay

### Chilkoti Receives $13.7 Million in Funding to Prototype a Rapid, Portable
Diagnostic

Ashutosh Chilkoti will explore how to use his lab’s signature diagnostic
platform to detect bioterrorism agents and to diagnose breast cancer in
resource limited settings

### Five Days of Fieldwork

Biomedical engineering students test a portable diagnostic device in Liberia

### Inkjet-Printed Tool Enables Sensitive Diagnostic Testing in Point-of-Care
Settings

New portable platform can show results in 15 minutes, allowing for rapid and
sensitive diagnostic testing in resource-limited settings

Read additional stories from this issue

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

