Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Duke’s Engineering Response Team Designs Solutions to Pandemic Problems

October 7, 2020

An interdisciplinary team of engineers, clinicians and other experts from
across Duke came together to create medical devices and tools to address
COVID-19

At the beginning of March, Dr. Konstantinos Economopoulos realized life was
about to change.

The novel coronavirus, originally identified in December 2019, had infected
hundreds of thousands of people across the world, and the World Health
Organization declared the growing pandemic a global health emergency. Classes
at Duke were moved online, and surgical residents in their research years at
Duke University Medical Center, like Economopoulos, were instructed to return
as clinical residents to pitch in with surgeries for the growing wave of
patients.

The coronavirus pandemic not only brought changes to daily life, but a slew of
unique problems for physicians and other health care workers to deal with.

“Across the country, we were seeing reports about shortages of personal
protective equipment, like masks, face-shields, gowns, and we had to change
our behaviors to reduce certain risk factors,” says Economopoulos. “We had to
limit the amount of time we spent in patients’ rooms. We also had to delay
procedures and delay regular patient check-ins to ensure that both health care
workers and their patients stayed safe.”

As a physician, Economopoulos saw the challenges firsthand. But as a Design
Health Fellow and master’s student in Duke Biomedical Engineering, he could
also work with colleagues on the newly assembled Engineering Response Team to
begin developing solutions to pressing clinical needs emerging during the
pandemic.

## DEPLOYING THE DESIGN HEALTH PARADIGM

When the Duke Design Health Fellows program officially launched in August of
2019, its goal was to teach students how to identify pressing needs in health
care and develop practical, creative solutions. With participants from
engineering, medicine and business, interdisciplinary student teams would
immerse themselves in a clinical environment and work with physicians, nurses
and other stakeholders to identify areas where help was needed.

That collaborative design program turned out to provide an ideal model for how
to quickly provide much-needed tools during a global pandemic.

“I had gotten calls from a Fortune 50 corporation about figuring out how to
produce low-cost ventilators, and Ken Gall, the associate dean for
entrepreneurship at Duke Engineering, had been approached with the idea of
turning a surgical gown into a powered air purifying respirator,” says Eric
Richardson, an associate professor of the practice of biomedical engineering
and director of the Design Health program. “I was on the phone with Ravi
Bellamkonda, the dean of Duke Engineering, and Ken the weekend after
everything started closing [for social distancing], and we realized we needed
to formalize all of these projects into a cohesive effort.”

Richardson, Gall, Paul Fearis, a senior lecturing fellow in biomedical
engineering and one of the leaders of the Design Health Program and Donna
Crenshaw, the executive Director of Duke MEDx, quickly formed the COVID-19
Engineering Response Team. Their first goal was to work together to prioritize
the identified needs and discuss which projects were the most practical and
impactful to immediately pursue.

“While the world was running around with its head in its hands dealing with
tons of requests for PPE, ventilators and the like, we made the decision to
take a breath, slow down and talk to the hospital,” says Fearis. “We’re in a
unique position where all we have to do is walk across the road and ask, ‘Is
this real? What will really help? And how good does it have to be?’ And we got
engagement from the hospital back in spades, which is what really gave us
traction rather than having us spinning our wheels.”

The team also pulled in Fellows from the Design Health program to assist and
lead various projects, including Economopoulos.

> “Just like in Design Health, our first step was validating the need and
> making sure we understood what that actual problem was.The fact that we had
> people coming together from medicine and engineering was instrumental, and I
> was able to use my dual role as a Design Fellow and general surgery resident
> to give feedback about the clinical significance and feasibility of certain
> projects.”
>
> Konstantinos Economopoulos

## A Checklist of Pandemic Proportions

Less than three weeks after the formation of the Engineering Response Team,
multiple projects were already launched, including 3D-printed face shield that
was prototyped with support from Chip Bobbert, the senior engineer and
fabrication architect at Duke’s Innovation Co-Lab.

The mask team coordinated their design with Duke health care workers who would
be most impacted by its use, including more than two dozen Duke nurses,
graduate nursing students and other medical professionals. Ryan Shaw, an
associate professor and the Elizabeth C. Clipp Term Chair of Nursing, and his
team tested the prototypes in a simulation lab, where they determined which
designs met safety standards and could be appropriately cleaned for re-use.

The PAPR hood prototype

A health care worker wears one of the 3-D printed masks.

The mask includes a reusable respirator hood that can completely cover health
care workers’ faces and a battery-powered blower that pulls air through
filters that keep the suit ventilated and the visor clear. The PAPR hood is
one of the safest pieces of equipment that health care workers can wear, and
it’s the preferred PPE for workers who are performing procedures like
intubating patients––an increasingly common action during the coronavirus
pandemic.

The team coordinated the hood's design with Dr. Melissa Erickson, a Duke
Oprthopedic spine surgeon who had approached the team with the idea. To date,
more than 97 groups have accessed the license and 35 groups from around the
globe have downloaded free design and instructions.

In addition to their projects involving PPE, the team has also advanced
projects intended to improve patient care. Among them is a plan to adapt
ventilators to make them both safer and more efficient when split between
patients.

A traditional ventilator pushes air into a patient’s lungs at specific
pressures, volumes, respiration rates and oxygen levels, and it can
automatically sense when to adjust its air volumes. But when a ventilator is
split, it compromises its safety alarms because it is no longer responding to
a single patient.

The project, helmed by Amanda Randles, the Alfred Winborne and Victoria Stover
Mordecai Assistant Professor of Biomedical Sciences at Duke and Dr. Muath
Bishawi, a cardiac surgery resident, PhD student in Duke BME and an advisor
for the Design Health program, involved 3D-printing resistor pieces that can
restrict airflow.

The team based their work on Randles’ parallel computing algorithm that’s
capable of simulating blood flow on a cellular level. They adapted the system
to instead simulate air flow through a ventilator and patient lungs with
different levels of resistance. This information helped the team design
multiple benchtop models for resistor pieces that could resist and redirect
airflow in specific ways, based on the needs of the patient.

A new set of 3D-printed parts and an accompanying app is making ventilator
splitters such as these much safer for patients

## CREATING DISTANCE TO SAVE LIVES

When Economopoulos joined the Engineering Response Team, he opted to lead a
team that would address one of the issues he’d personally dealt with as a
physician: protecting doctors and patients during routine check-ins.

Konstantinos and his colleagues plan the isolation tent project while social
distancing.

The prototype of the COVIAGE Isolation Tent

The team came up with the idea to develop a clear tent that could go over a
hospital bed. A negative pressure HVAC system attached to the tent would help
contain the virus by filtering contaminated air exiting the tent. By making
the tent portable, they could also more easily move patients around the
hospital without risking contamination. “As health care workers, we were
trying to minimize our time in patients’ rooms so we wouldn’t be risking our
health more, especially if we were dealing with a shortage of PPE,” says
Economopoulos. “A lot of the conversation had involved adapting and improving
existing PPE to protect us, but we started brainstorming and thinking outside
the box, and that’s when we started discussing the possibility of potentially
isolating the patient within their room. That led us to come up with COVIAGE.”

“We worked with Ryan Shaw and Jackie Vaughn in the School of Nursing to gather
feedback and continue to adapt the design. Even janitors and other staff in
the hospital became instrumental to our team for the feedback they could
provide about risks and the ways the pandemic affected their job,” says
Economopoulos. “Within a few weeks we were able to deliver a finished product
to the hospital. Normally these devices would take at least two years to plan,
prototype and deploy, but the pandemic has fast-tracked everything.”

For Economopoulos, it was inspiring to see so many engineers and physicians
and Design Health colleagues come together to craft local solutions to a
global problem. He credits the collaborative nature of Duke and the
infrastructure set up by the Design Health program as key ingredients for the
Engineering Response Team’s success.

“The projects we’ve been working on have been beneficial to our community, to
our country and they have the potential to be helpful internationally,” he
says. “At times, the Engineering Response Team was essentially a scaled-up
Design Health program with unprecedented collaborations across Duke. The
pandemic has given people a huge incentive to go the extra mile, and it’s been
really inspiring to be a part of.”

## Explore projects from the Engineering Response Team

### Solving Pressing Challenges

The Engineering Response Team 3D prints medical grade face shields

### Projects From the COVID-19 Engineering Response Team

The team is working on projects to address Duke Health’s identified clinical
equipment needs. As the team finalizes and implements devices, it will make
the designs available for other hospitals and health care workers to download
and use.

### Sophisticated Modeling Boosts Split Ventilators to Emergency FDA Review

Duke engineers and clinicians devise a system for ensuring patients receive
just the right amount of air

Read additional stories from this issue

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

