Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Using Epigenetic “Fingerprints” to Identify Coronavirus Infections

October 7, 2020 | Michaela Kane

In a DARPA-funded project, Duke BME’s Xiling Shen and collaborators across the
U.S. are designing a diagnostic test that aims to identify coronavirus
carriers early and predict the symptom severity

This illustration, created at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
(CDC), reveals the structure of the coronavirus.

The most common diagnostic tests for coronavirus involve a nasal swab that
tests for the presence of the virus in the upper respiratory tract, or an
antibody test, which identifies if a patient has developed antibodies to the
virus. The nasal swab is often a hit-or-miss as it takes weeks to develop
antibodies after the onset of infection.

But Xiling Shen, the Hawkins Family Associate Professor of Biomedical
Engineering, Chris Woods, MD, the chief of the infectious disease division and
associate director of the Center for Applied Genomics and Precision Medicine,
and a team of collaborators at Mount Sinai hope to address this problem by
developing a new diagnostic test to identify carriers of the coronavirus
before they become contagious and spread the disease and to predict whether
their symptom will be severe enough to require ICU care.

“The current diagnostics for COVID-19 mainly focus on detecting the virus’s
DNA or virus antibodies, both of which can take days or weeks to develop in
large enough quantities to measure,” says Shen. “Rather than look for these
specific viral markers, we wanted to develop a test that looks for more
immediate changes in our own immune system as the body responds to a
coronavirus infection.

> “These changes take place as early as 24 hours after the virus enters the
> system, and right now our understanding is that a carrier isn’t contagious
> until several days after infection. We’d also be able to use these changes
> to identify if a case is more likely to progress to a severe infection.”
>
> Xiling Shen

The diagnostic was developed through MEMENTO (Mapping Epigenetic Memory of
Exposure to Observe), a project supported by the Defense Advanced Research
Projects Agency’s (DARPA) new Epigenetic CHaracterization and Observation
(ECHO) program. Launched in September of 2019, ECHO aims to support
researchers as they build a field-deployable device that can test small
biological samples––like a drop of blood or a nasal swab––for evidence of
epigenetic changes that reveal a detailed history of an individual’s expose to
dangerous materials or pathogens.

After the global explosion of coronavirus cases in early 2020, the research
teams focused on adapting this work to address the growing pandemic.

Xiling Shen

“Dr. Chris Woods and his team collected blood samples from patients who had
tested positive for the coronavirus,” says Shen. “Rather than just collect
samples from patients in the ICU, they collected samples from individuals who
were exposed to the virus but remained asymptomatic and from patients who only
developed mild symptoms and never needed to go to the hospital.”

“They took samples on the day of diagnosis, three days out, a week out, two
weeks out and three weeks out, which allowed them to track the disease
progression and gave us the power to explore if there were certain signs about
patients that may progress to a severe disease,” he says.

Shen and his team in Duke’s Center for Genomic and Computational Biology then
analyzed the samples for epigenetic changes to the cells in the immune system.

“When we say we’re looking for epigenetic changes, we’re essentially looking
for a modification or a ‘fingerprint’ on the cell, which indicates when the
cell has responded to external stimuli,” says Shen. “We can see if an
individual cell has sensed a threat, or if it has energized itself to fight a
virus. We also know that certain cells, like immune cells or blood cells,
respond to COVID-19 very specifically, and our single-cell technology allows
us to track how certain cell types respond out of a wider population.

Shen and his team used these epigenetic fingerprints to identify potential
biomarkers for coronavirus infection and signals for a more severe infection.
Working with DARPA and industrial partners, the team hopes to rapidly
implement these biomarkers into clinical diagnostic platforms.

“Our collaboration with DARPA gives us a direct path towards clinical
applications and expedited FDA approval,” says Shen. “If this test is
approved, we’d be able to let people know that they’re infected days earlier
than the current standard. We’re excited about its potential to fill a big gap
in testing.”

Read additional stories from this issue

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

