

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Alumni & Giving » Alumni

# Distinguished Alumni & Service Awards

Each year, the Duke Engineering Alumni Council honors distinguished graduates
and members of the Duke Engineering Community

  * Meet recent honorees
  * Award criteria and nomination form
  * Previous honorees

## 2023 Honorees

### Distinguished Alumni Award

**Kenneth S. Chestnut Sr. E'68** has been a construction industry leader for
more than 45 years

Kenneth S. Chestnut, Sr. is the retired President and Chief Executive Officer
of IBG Construction Services LLC (“IBG”) based in Atlanta, GA, which he
founded in 1998. Under his leadership, IBG grew its revenues, expanded its
core business activities geographically, and positioned IBG as an industry
leader in the area of Sustainability.

Kenneth was also a Principal with the affiliated Real Estate firm, The
Integral Group. Kenneth was in the construction industry for over 45 years and
managed projects in San Francisco, Texas, Louisville, and Atlanta, including
high-profile projects designed by renowned architects, I. M. Pei and John
Portman. Kenneth had a successful track record with extensive experience in
multi-family housing, education, transportation, industrial, healthcare,
commercial, R&D labs, criminal justice facilities, Olympic Games venues, and
major infrastructure. He also has an extensive track record with public-
private partnerships in the industry.

Kenneth is a proud graduate of Duke University, where he earned a Bachelor of
Science Degree in Civil Engineering in 1968. He previously served on the Pratt
School of Engineering’s Board of Visitors for several years.

### Distinguished Young Alumni Award

**Joshua M. Miller E'15** has contributed greatly to the field of computer
vision

As an entrepreneur, Mr. Miller has contributed greatly to the field of
computer vision, particularly in remote sensing and medical imaging. He is the
co-founder of multiple companies, most notably FarmShots and Gradient Health.

His first company, FarmShots, developed an automated disease and pest
detection system based on satellite data, which helped to greatly reduce the
need for fertilizer and pesticides. FarmShots was acquired by Syngenta in
2018. He serves as the CEO of Gradient Health, which helps connect medical AI
developers with large-scale anonymized datasets for development and regulatory
filings—helping catch cancer and stroke earlier. He resides in Duke's hometown
of Durham, where he is an angel investor and mentor to imaging-focused
startups.

He believes the greatest impact he can have on the world starts with a roomful
of passionate, like-minded people who have a world-changing dream and the
drive to make it a reality.

### Distinguished Service Award

**Pamela S. Hanson** has served Duke Engineering alumni since 1994

Ms. Hanson began her work at Duke in 1994. All but one of her years at Duke
have been in the Pratt School of Engineering's Office of Development & Alumni
Relations. She has held various positions, including development staff
assistant, special events coordinator, and coordinator of young alumni. Each
one of her many different roles over the years has involved interacting with
alumni and students. She is currently the director of the Engineering Annual
Fund.

She received this award because she has always given generously of her time,
effort and spirit to benefit the Pratt School of Engineering and the larger
Duke community. While talent and hard work have served her well, she gives
thanks and credit to her great bosses and colleagues, who have made it a joy
to work every day with alumni and students. While she wouldn’t have known it
three decades ago, the role has truly turned out to be her dream job.

Duke Engineering is lucky to have her!

* * *

## Award Criteria and Nomination Link

### Distinguished Alumnus Award

  * Received an engineering degree from Duke
  * Achieved recognition in their field
  * Demonstrated exemplary service to Duke and to their community

### Distinguished Young Alumnus Award

  * Received an engineering degree from Duke within the last 15 years
  * Achieved recognition in their field
  * Demonstrated effort promoting the excellence of the Pratt School of
    Engineering

### Distinguished Service Award

  * Any person who has exhibited extraordinary effort in helping the Pratt
    School of Engineering achieve its goals and objectives
  * Achieved recognition in their field

Submit a Nomination

* * *

## Previous Honorees

### Distinguished Alumni Award

  * Robert W. Anderson BSCE’59
  * Charles P. Ballenger, Jr. BSCE’36
  * William M. Bartlett BSCE’54
  * Walter J. Bishop BSCE’73
  * Shem K. Blackley, Jr. BSCE’54
  * Stephen R. Bolze BSEE’85
  * Emmett H. Bradley BSEE’49
  * Lewis Campbell BSME’68
  * Everitt A. Carter BME’40
  * John Cocke BSME’45, PhD’56
  * Laurie C. Conner E’76
  * John M. Derrick, Jr. BSEE’61
  * Gary W. Dickinson BSME’60
  * Ray B. Duggins BSME’44
  * Robert R. Everett BSEE’42
  * Fred M. Fehsenfeld, Jr. E'73
  * Robert E. Fischell BSME’51
  * W. Kent Fuchs BSE’77
  * Robert L. Galloway, Jr. BSE’77, PhD’83
  * Robert A. Garda BSME’61
  * C. Gary Gerst BSME’61
  * Clair H. Gingher, Jr. BSME’43
  * James F. Girand BSEE’59
  * R. Eugene Goodson T’57, BSME’59
  * William H. Hall E’09 AM’14
  * Philip J. Hawk BSE'76
  * William A. Hawkins III BSE’76
  * Michael R. S. Hill BSE’86
  * Grant T. Hollett, Jr. BSME’64
  * Charles H. Holley BSEE’41
  * W. Kenneth Howard BSEE’35
  * John L. Imhoff BSME’45
  * Edwin L. Jones T’12
  * Edwin L. Jones, Jr. BSCE’48
  * Alan L. Kaganov BSME’60
  * John J. Karakash BSEE’37
  * Senator Edward E. Kaufman BSME’60
  * Clinton W. Kelly III BSEE’59
  * Theodore C. Kennedy BSCE’52
  * Kenneth T. Knight, Jr. BSE’33
  * Lawrence J. Lang BSE’86
  * Chester L. Lucas BSCE’38
  * Robert C. Marlay BSCE’69
  * Capers W. McDonald BSE’74
  * Larry K. Monteith MS’62, PhD’65
  * Nicholas J. Naclerio E’83
  * Billy B. Olive BSEE’48
  * Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. BSEE’47
  * James F. Rabenhorst BSME’64
  * L. Russell Ranson T’31
  * Randolph K. Repass BSEE’66
  * Patricia K. Scheller BSE'81
  * Kenneth T. Schiciano E'84
  * W. Brewster Snow BSE’32
  * J. Stephen Simon BSCE’65
  * William A. Stokes BSCE’53
  * W. John Swartz BSME’56
  * David S. Taylor, E’80
  * T. Edward Torgerson BSCE’49
  * Charles R. Vail BSEE’37
  * James W. Vaughan, Jr. BSEE’57
  * James L. Vincent BSME’61
  * Christopher R. Webster T’39
  * Arthur J. Wennerstrom BSME’56
  * Hugh E. Whitted, Jr. BSEE’39
  * Blake S. Wilson BSE’74
  * F. Thomas Wooten BSEE’57, PhD’64
  * Harold L. Yoh, Jr. BSME’58

### Distinguished Young Alumni Award

  * Benjamin S. Abram E'02
  * John A. Board, Jr. BSE’82, MS’82
  * Lewis C. Brewster BSE’86
  * Matthew Q. Christensen BSE'02
  * Max D. Cohen BSE'03
  * Karen E. Conover BSE’85
  * J. Michael Drozd BSE’89, PhD’97
  * Michael Feldman BSE’84
  * Jacob J. Flomenberg, E’05
  * Russell M. Glass BSE’98
  * David J. Gregory BSE’84
  * Robert J. Greenberg BSEE’90
  * Anita J. Hill BSE’85, MS’86, PhD’89
  * Lawrence D. Lenihan, Jr. BSE’87
  * Gregory R. Maletic BSE’90
  * Mia K. Markey PhD’02
  * Leslie Voorhees Means E'08
  * Nicholas A. Millington BSE’98
  * Terry Myerson BSE’91
  * Ananth Natarajan BSE’90
  * Lisa Burton O'Toole, PhD, E’07
  * Aaron T. Patzer BSE’02
  * Scott D. Olson BSE'91
  * Christophe H. Schilling BSE’95
  * Kristine M. Singley BSE’96, B’07
  * George S. Taylor BSE’78
  * Edward L. Trimble BSE’90
  * Jeffrey N. Vinik BSE’81
  * James H. Vogeley BSE’80
  * Andrew Waterman, PhD, E’08
  * James G. Whayne BSE’90
  * Harold L. Yoh III BSE’83

### Distinguished Service Award

  * Donald M. Alstadt
  * Roger Coke Barr BS'64, PhD'68
  * C. Leland Bassett BSME’59
  * Sterling M. Brockwell, Jr. BSCE’56
  * Robert W. Carr, Jr. BSE’71
  * Howard G. Clark III
  * F. Hadley Cocks
  * James H. Corrigan, Jr. BSME’47
  * Daniel M. Dickinson E’83
  * Earl H. Dowell
  * Ernest Elsevier
  * F. Reid Ervin BSME’42
  * Harold L. Flowers BSEE’38
  * Linda Franzoni, MS ’88, PhD’91
  * Stacy S. Gardner BSE’91
  * Suzanne M. Gregory BSE'87
  * Michael R. Gustafson II E'93, G'99
  * Fitzgerald S. Hudson BSCE’46
  * Alfred M. Hunt
  * Joseph H. Jarboe BSCE’69
  * Edward L. Koffenberger BSME’47
  * George D. McCeney BSCE’33
  * Martha Monserrate McDade BSE’81, MS’82
  * James H. McElhaney
  * Fred W. Neu BSCE’34
  * George W. Pearsall
  * Henry Petroski
  * Robert H. Pinnix T’24
  * Edward M. Reefe BSCE’68
  * Janis J. Rehlaender BSE’77
  * Marion L. Shepard
  * Constance E. Simmons
  * Wilbur S. Smith
  * Adrienne Stiff-Roberts, PhD
  * Nello L. Teer, Jr.
  * R. Dillard Teer
  * George A. Truskey, PhD
  * Aleksandar S. Vesic
  * Seth A. Watkins BSME’92, JD’99, MS’93, PhD’96
  * Richard D. Webb T’51
  * Arthur E. Wheeler BSME’47
  * Jerry C. Wilkinson BSEE’67
  * William B. Wilmer VI BSEE’51
  * Howard M. Winterson T’39
  * Thomas M. Woodard BSEE’69
  * William H. Younger, Jr.

* * *

## Alumni & Giving News

March 09, 2023 | Duke Translation & Commercialization

### Isolere Bio: Inside the Journey of a Duke Biotech Startup

February 20, 2023

### Duke Engineering: Then & Now

February 17, 2023 | Duke Innovation & Entrepreneurship

### Five Questions With Hannah Wilen '20, Co-Founder of Capd Period

View all alumni & giving news

## Alumni

  * Engineering Alumni Council
  * Distinguished Alumni Awards
  * Alumni-Student Mentoring
  * Student Group Funding

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

