

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Alumni & Giving » Alumni

# Engineering Alumni Council (EAC)

Engaging alumni to further the missions of Duke Engineering

Your members of the Duke Engineering Alumni Council:

  * Provide funding and engagement to undergraduate student projects
  * Faciliate the Pratt Alumni-Student Mentorship Program
  * Review nominations for our annual awards recognizing Distinguished Alumni,
    Distinguished Young Alumni and Distinguished Service
  * Support the publication of the student-written DukEngineer Magazine
  * Represent alumni to the Duke Engineering Board of Visitors
  * Represent the Pratt School of Engineering to the Duke Alumni Board of
    Directors

Contact Duke

Pay My Dues

## From the EAC President

Dear Duke Engineering Alumni:

2021 was a year of change and adaptation, yet there is much to celebrate as
the Pratt community continues to find ways to optimize the student experience
and increase meaningful interactions among alumni and students. The
Engineering Alumni Council (EAC) continued virtual engagement initiatives
throughout the year, and while we are grateful that these programs have become
even more impactful through expanded access to a broader range of alumni, we
are invigorated by the prospect of returning key events to campus.

The EAC’s ambitious year-round Pratt Mentoring Program continues to grow,
engaging more than 700 alumni and students this year. Our goal is to expand
the scope of the mentoring relationship to embrace student purpose, character
and well-being as a complement to Pratt’s 360 Coaching advising strategy.
Students have requested further engagement opportunities, and we look forward
to including career panel discussions and connections to internship
opportunities as the program matures.

> My heartfelt thanks to the many alumni who give freely of their time and
> consistently demonstrate overwhelming dedication and willingness to connect
> with current students and the world-changing ideas they are forming.

Transitioning to an online platform has also significantly expanded alumni
participation in the EAC’s resume and mock interview workshops and aligns the
student experience with current interviewing norms. Our two-hour virtual event
in January engaged over 600 Pratt alumni and students. With interview sessions
blocked for eight minutes, students were able to be matched with multiple
alumni, resulting in 1,795 total interactions. The virtual platform
efficiently delivers multiple opportunities for the students to engage with
alumni, hone their resume and interview skills, and seek general advice on
work and networking.

Pratt alumni play a key role in supporting students and maintaining a vibrant
exchange of knowledge and resources. On behalf of the EAC, my heartfelt thanks
to the many alumni who give freely of their time and consistently demonstrate
overwhelming dedication and willingness to connect with current students and
the world-changing ideas they are forming.

There are so many exciting things happening, and they will all benefit from
your involvement. Look over the opportunities for alumni engagement below, and
don’t hesitate to reach out to Pam Hanson or Kim Davis in the Dean’s office if
you have questions or suggestions.

  * **Post your openings on**Duke Alumni’s job board **for internships and job
    opportunities at all levels**
  * **Connect with and mentor students**
    * Sign up to participate in Pratt’s Alumni-Student Mentoring Program run by the Engineering Alumni Council, which connects students and alumni for mentoring over the course of an academic year (matching will occur this summer for Fall 2022 mentoring assignments)
    * Volunteer with the Ask A Blue Devil Program, which matches specific questions submitted by students to the most qualified alumni
    * Update your profile on the alumni network so that it will be easier for students and other alumni to connect with you in the future
  * **Support the** **Annual Fund** to enable us to continue to offer high-
    quality programs and opportunities for our students, faculty, and the
    Pratt community in general
  * **Submit a nomination for the** **Engineering Alumni Council** for 2022 (
    _nominations due by December 1, 2022)_
  * **Submit a fellow alumni for an** **Engineering Alumni Award** to
    recognize their work and accomplishments
  * **Stay in touch!**  
Please don’t hesitate to reach out to Pam Hanson or Kim Davis in the Dean’s
office. We love to hear from you!

Thank you for staying connected to Duke and the Pratt School of Engineering.
Your involvement helps drive an enriched experience for our current students
and other alumni. We look forward to seeing you back on campus or at a virtual
event soon. Forever Duke!

Learn more & volunteer

## About the Council

### What Council Members Do

A member of the Pratt Alumni Council is an active observer to the Pratt Board
of Visitors, ensuring that an alumni perspective is heard in deliberations
concerning Duke Engineering's future.

Alumni Council representation on the Duke Alumni Association insures vital
Duke Engineer representation in overall university alumni affairs.

Alumni Council funding of student club projects—such as the concrete canoe,
racing vehicle and electric vehicle intercollegiate teams—provides critically
important hands-on design opportunities for Duke Engineering undergraduates.

The council's support of DukEngineer Magazine has been instrumental in
maintaining this long-running publication for alumni and friends.

Your Alumni Council has the distinct privilege of reviewing your nominations
for the important Distinguished Alumnus/a Award, Distinguished Young Alumnus/a
Award and Distinguished Service Award recognition presented at our annual
spring banquet.

### Member Expectations

  * **Attendance and active participation in all three annual EAC meetings:**
    Meetings are typically scheduled for Fridays and Saturdays—once in the
    Fall, Winter, and Spring, respectively—and often coincide with football
    games, basketball games, or other university events. Brief conference
    calls and similar committee follow-up tasks commonly occur between
    meetings in Durham, but do not require extensive additional commitments of
    time. Although professional, personal, or family commitments may
    periodically conflict, members are expected to make a concerted effort
    toward attending meetings.
  * **Giving:** The board fully recognizes that not all alumni have the
    financial capacity to donate substantial sums. Instead, what is viewed as
    important by the EAC is the consistency by which members contribute. Each
    member is committed to Annual Fund giving and timely payment of EAA dues.
    Council leadership is expected to make a leadership level contribution. In
    order to ensure diversity of council leadership, an executive committee
    member can accumulate their gift over the length of their term(s) on the
    council.
  * **Support the EAC and other Pratt and Duke programs** including local and
    regional events, student projects, and annual awards banquet.
  * **Serve as formal and informal representatives of the School.**
  * **Provide professional expertise and individual talent.**
  * **Provide guidance to the Pratt School of Engineering.**

## Alumni-Funded Student Projects

The goal of the Student Projects Committee on the Engineering Alumni Council
is to facilitate connections between willing alumni, corporations and others
to the Duke student clubs, ensure allocated funds by the Alumni Association
are used appropriately, and along with other board members, coach the teams on
executive oversight expectations. Below are just a few of the great results
achieved with the support of the Alumni Association.

  * **Duke Motorsports Outraces the Pandemic  
** Despite a year full of obstacles, the Duke Motorsports team built an 80-MPH
racecar from the ground up

  * **We Have Liftoff!**  
Two-stage rocket launched by Duke AERO student team reaches 8,000-foot
altitude

  * **Resilience During COVID-19**  
How Duke Engineers for International Development and other groups offered
enriching experiences this year

Read student group funding guidelines

Support these & other student groups

## Alumni Awards

The goal of the Awards Committee on the Engineering Alumni Council is to
engage and connect alumni with Duke Engineering and each other and to
celebrate their service to Duke and the world. We celebrate the service and
accomplishments of engineering alumni through the Distinguished Alumni,
Distinguished Young Alumni, and Distinguished Service Awards at our annual
Awards Banquet.

Nominate an alumnus

## Alumni-Student Mentoring

The Pratt Alumni-Student Mentorship Program helps students build professional
skills and connect with alumni working in their field of interest. It also re-
connects alumni with the Pratt School of Engineering.

Alumni mentors make a positive impact on Pratt students, and mentees receive
career guidance and build their professional networks.

More about mentoring

## Council Member Directory

### President

  * Tracy A. Nickelsburg E’88, P’22 (Alexandria, VA)

### Vice President

  * James A. Romes E’02, B’10 (Cary, NC)

### Council Members

#### Terms Expiring 2023

  * Marietta J. Costa E’85, P’17, P’24 (Dix Hills, NY)
  * Ronald J. Epstein G’96 (Chatham, NJ)
  * Jessica L. Foley E’01 (Washington, DC)
  * John S. Ingalls, Jr. E’11, X’12 (Sunnyvale, CA)
  * Tanuj Khurana X’12 (Newport Beach, CA)
  * Dyuti Mahendru E’12 (Houston, TX)
  * Mark W. Pratt E’11 (Cleveland Heights, OH)
  * Evan M. Reilly E’16 (Durham, NC)
  * Constandi J. Shami E’13, G’14 (Ann Arbor, MI)

#### Terms Expiring 2024

  * Benjamin J. Aitken E’02, L’06 (Chapel Hill, NC)
  * Brian C. Alonso E’01 (Miami, FL)
  * Abhishek Balakrishnan E’15, X’15
  * Jacqueline E. Brown E’86, B’90 (Durham, NC)
  * Margaret P. Chiou E’99 (Larchmont, NY)
  * Rachel A. Fleming E’12, X’13 (Durham, NC)
  * Stephanie L. Gloster E’96 (Atlanta, GA)
  * Robert L. Jacks II E’94 (Old Greenwich, CT)
  * Andrew R. Schmidt E’06 (East Grand Rapids, MI)
  * Matthew D. Tiberii E’15 (Nashville, TN)

#### Terms Expiring 2025

  * Robert A. Denton E’90, G’91, P’25 (Mclean, VA)
  * Sam A. Ghazaleh E’86, P’20, P’24 (Mckinney, TX)
  * Alan G. Goedde E’70, G’78 (Pasadena, CA)
  * Michael R. Gustafson II E’93, G’99 (Durham, NC)
  * Jennifer K. Orriss E’93, P’23 (Los Angeles, CA)
  * Preston S. Porter E’09 (Houston, TX)
  * Christopher R. Rowland E’09, G’13, G’15 (Durham, NC)
  * Michael L. Silver E’09 (Chicago, IL)
  * Steven L. Walker E’88, P’23 (Brookhaven, GA)

### Engineering Student Government Representatives

  * Executive President: Nikita Suri E’23
  * Executive Vice President: Jack Rhodes E’24
  * Senior Class President: James Zheng E’23
  * Junior Class President: Vivian Su E’24

### Duke Student Alumni Board Representatives

#### Undergraduate

  * Jeremy Fertig BSE’23
  * Sarah Habib BSE’23
  * Will Hess BS’23
  * Zibran Vastani BSE’24

#### Graduate

  * Anna E. Knight E’15,G’22
  * Joseph Rufo G’24

## Join the Council

To nominate yourself or a fellow alumnus/a, simply complete the online
nomination form, or contact Kim Davis.

Apply Now

## Contact the EAC

### Kimberly Davis

**Duke Engineering Alumni Relations  
**

kim.davis@duke.edu  
+1 919 660 5385

## Alumni

  * Engineering Alumni Council
  * Distinguished Alumni Awards
  * Alumni-Student Mentoring
  * Student Group Funding

## Alumni News

March 09, 2023 | Duke Translation & Commercialization

### Isolere Bio: Inside the Journey of a Duke Biotech Startup

February 20, 2023

### Duke Engineering: Then & Now

February 17, 2023 | Duke Innovation & Entrepreneurship

### Five Questions With Hannah Wilen '20, Co-Founder of Capd Period

View all alumni news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

