

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Undergraduate » For Current Students

# Undergraduate Advising

Engineering students at Duke have a network of advising resources

Over your career at Duke, your advising network grows to include mentors from
across campus. Taken together as an advising team, these individuals will help
you discover and understand opportunities at Duke and introduce you to Duke’s
intellectual community.

## ACADEMIC DEAN

Your academic dean oversees your progress to graduation, helps you understand
academic policies, provides assistance during difficult academic or personal
times. An academic dean is an important member of your advising network.

Each academic dean is well-connected across campus and can make referrals to
appropriate helpful resources.

## FACULTY ADVISOR

Faculty advisors are assigned in the September of the first year. The two of
you will meet at least once per semester. After you declare a major, you will
have a faculty advisor in your department.

Your faculty advisor is committed to guiding you toward pathways that pertain
to your individual curiosity as well as helping you discover unconsidered
interests. Your faculty advisor can discuss your course registration each
semester, help you understand curricular requirements and point you toward
additional academic mentors as your interests develop.

## E-TEAM PEER ADVISORS

The E-Team is composed of volunteer, upper-class engineering students eager to
help incoming first-year students learn the ropes of engineering at Duke.

The team’s mission is to assist first-year engineering students in their
transition to Duke by creating an immediate network of support with
engineering students who can answer questions, share experiences and offer
advice.

## DIRECTORS OF ACADEMIC ENGAGEMENT

Directors of Academic Engagement (DAEs) are specialized advisors. They meet
with Pratt students of all class years and majors and offer four specialty
areas:

  * Global & Civic Engagement
  * Arts & Humanities
  * Natural & Quantitative Sciences
  * Social Sciences

DAEs are valuable resources for engineering students. For example, DAEs for
_Global & Civic Engagement_ can help Pratt students integrate DukeEngage and
semester-away experiences into a Pratt education.

You can see one or several DAEs, in any order, at any time, and as often as
you want.

##

Ask a Blue Devil is a platform to help you grow your Duke network, find a
mentor or set up that informational interview to help you navigate a career
transition. Fill out the brief form and ask for advice. Your question will be
sent to fellow Duke alumni who can help point you in the right direction!

Ask a question

Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate experience »

## Before You Ask an Academic Dean ...

An Academic Dean is an excellent resource for all Pratt undergrads, and you
should not hesitate to contact them for an appointment.

But before you do that, check to see if your question is already answered in
the policies and procedures section.

## Undergraduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 20, 2023 | Bass Connections

### Taking the Bull City by the Horns

February 22, 2023 | The Chronicle

### Sydney Hunt of Duke ECE Among Duke Young Trustee Finalists

View all undergrad news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

