

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Undergraduate » For Current Students » Policies & Procedures

# Final Exam, Absence From

Students are expected to take final examinations at the scheduled times unless
an extraordinary circumstance interferes. Given the time limitations inherent
in making up a missed final exam, absence from a final exam is handled
differently than a short-term or long-term illness. The Incapacitation Form is
turned off during the final exam period, therefore, if you are unable to take
a final exam as scheduled, you must contact your academic dean as soon as
possible. This should preferably be done before the scheduled final exam, but
no more than within 48 hours of missing the final exam. If this time period
covers a weekend, you should call and leave a voice mail message for your dean
or send an e-mail explaining that you missed a final exam and providing an
explanation, ASAP. You should then personally call the dean's office on the
next workday (919-660-5996) to be sure your message was received and to
arrange for an appointment if appropriate. Be prepared to provide
documentation of illness, death or other emergency.

If for any reason you fail to take the final exam in a course, the instructor
will record a grade of "X," which means "absence from a final exam." Within 48
hours of the recording of an "X" grade, you must present an explanation and
documentation of your illness or injury that caused your absence to your
academic dean. If you do not, or if the Dean does not approve your absence,
the "X" grade will automatically convert to an "F". If your dean excuses your
absence, your instructor will be notified and you must make arrangements with
the instructor to make up the exam. You will generally have until the end of
the fifth week of the next semester (at the latest) to clear the "X" by
completing the final exam. There are circumstances when an X grade must be
completed prior to the next semester, and your academic dean will confirm the
applicable date for your situation.

An "X" grade will be excused if there is an extraordinary reason for the
absence, generally a reason beyond your control. This might include a sudden
illness requiring a visit to an emergency room or physician, or a death in the
family. **End-of-semester travel plans or weddings are not acceptable grounds
for missing a final exam.** An "X" will also not be excused if you have a
history of excessive absences or a failure to complete course work in a timely
fashion. If you were already failing a course before missing the final exam,
the instructor will submit an "F" grade rather than an "X" grade.

**NOTE:** a shorter period applies when Semester Continuation Requirements are
involved (see discussion under "incomplete course work"), or if required by
the instructor. Failure to complete the final exam in a course by the deadline
will result in the assignment of a final course grade of "F."

_Last updated: April 25, 2022  
_

Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate experience »

## Before You Ask an Academic Dean ...

An Academic Dean is an excellent resource for all Pratt undergrads, and you
should not hesitate to contact them for an appointment.

But before you do that, check to see if your question is already answered in
the policies and procedures section.

## Undergraduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 20, 2023 | Bass Connections

### Taking the Bull City by the Horns

February 22, 2023 | The Chronicle

### Sydney Hunt of Duke ECE Among Duke Young Trustee Finalists

View all undergrad news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

