

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Undergraduate » For Current Students » Policies & Procedures

# Athletic Participation, Notification of (NOVAP)

The Pratt class attendance and missed work policy recognizes the fact that
varsity athletes will be unable to attend classes when they are officially
representing the university in varsity athletic competitions away from campus.
For this reason, varsity athletes are given a letter from the Athletic
Department at the beginning of each semester to give to each of their
instructors, notifying them that they are varsity athletes. This letter,
signed by the Dean of Trinity College and by Brad Berndt, Senior Associate
Athletics Director, is accompanied by a schedule of that semester's varsity
athletic competitions.

In addition, varsity athletes are expected to notify their instructors in
whose courses they will be missing academic work before each absence from
class due to athletic participation. To do this, varsity athletes are to
complete and submit the following online form: NOTIFICATION OF VARSITY
ATHLETIC PARTICIPATION.

**Because athletic absences are pre-scheduled events, student-athletes are
expected to submit a form no later than one week prior to their participation
in each varsity athletic competition out of town.**

As in the case of Short-term illness notifications, student-athletes must
electronically sign the NOVAP form, indicating that they are acting in
accordance with the Duke Community Standard.

After the completed NOVAP form has been submitted, the instructor will receive
e-mailed notification, with copies sent also to the student and to the
student's academic dean.

**Note:** Use of the NOVAP procedure is monitored and faculty are advised to
bring to the attention of a student's academic dean any instances in which the
instructor believes the student may be abusing the procedure. In cases of
suspected abuse of the system, the dean may refer the matter to the
Undergraduate Judicial Board for investigation.

**A note about the final exam period:** Given the time limitations inherent in
completing end-of-semester assignments or making up a missed final exam, this
procedure cannot be used during the final exam period. You are expected to
take final examinations at the scheduled times and to complete end-of-semester
work by the deadlines set by the instructor unless an extraordinary
circumstance interferes. If you encounter an extraordinary circumstance during
exam week, contact your Academic Dean directly as soon as possible, preferably
before the scheduled assignment or exam

_Added: January 3, 2019_

Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate experience »

## Before You Ask an Academic Dean ...

An Academic Dean is an excellent resource for all Pratt undergrads, and you
should not hesitate to contact them for an appointment.

But before you do that, check to see if your question is already answered in
the policies and procedures section.

## Undergraduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 20, 2023 | Bass Connections

### Taking the Bull City by the Horns

February 22, 2023 | The Chronicle

### Sydney Hunt of Duke ECE Among Duke Young Trustee Finalists

View all undergrad news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

