

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Undergraduate » For Current Students » Policies & Procedures

# Continuation Requirements

You must achieve a satisfactory record of academic performance each term and
make satisfactory progress toward graduation each year to continue in Pratt.
Continuation requirements are discussed in detail in the _Bulletin of
Undergraduate Instruction_.

_Satisfactory Performance Each Term (Semester Continuation Requirements):_

  * In the first semester of enrollment at Duke, you must pass at least two
    semester courses.
  * After the first semester at Duke, you must pass at least three semester
    courses each semester.
  * If you are taking an underload (which must be authorized by your dean),
    you must earn all passing grades.
  * You may not fail more than one full course taken during the summer, except
    that you must pass any and all courses taken in the summer if you received
    a grade of F in the preceding spring semester.

If you fail to meet semester continuation requirements, you will be
academically dismissed for two semesters. Students dismissed twice for
academic reasons are generally not readmitted to Duke.

_Satisfactory Progress Toward Graduation (Annual Continuation Requirements):_

Prior to the beginning of fall term classes, you must have made satisfactory
progress toward graduation to be eligible to continue at Duke. The number of
credits you must pass to continue into the next academic year is listed in the
table that follows. If at the end of the spring semester, you do not meet the
requirements for entering the fall semester, you will be required to attend
one or both summer sessions at Duke to make up the required credits. If you do
not do so, you will be dismissed for two semesters. Note that courses in which
F grades are earned do not count towards annual continuation and only two
courses in which D grades are earned will count toward annual continuation.

**To begin enrollment in the Fall semester as your:**

**A student must have passed:**  
  
2nd semester at Duke

2 semester course credits at Duke  
  
3rd semester at Duke

6 semester course credits at Duke  
  
4th semester at Duke

10 semester course credits at Duke  
  
5th semester at Duke

13 semester course credits at Duke  
  
6th semester at Duke

17 semester course credits at Duke  
  
7th semester at Duke

22 semester course credits at Duke *  
  
8th semester at Duke

26 semester course credits at Duke *  
  
**Note:** this table takes into account the fact that some students will have
interrupted their study at Duke. For example, in such cases, a student may be
entering in the fall his/her 4th or 6th semester at Duke.

The Pratt School of Engineering counts the following when confirming annual
continuation: ** __**

2-D grades

1 cc of PE

1 cc of activity courses (no house courses)

2 cc of Military Science (jr/sr year only)

6 cc of Professional and Graduate Courses

0 cc of Internship

_*The Pratt School of Engineering will count up to 4 post-matriculation
transfer credits (in addition to study abroad) for students entering the 7th
or 8th semester to meet Annual Continuation Requirements._

Note: AP credits are not counted when determining annual continuation, however
they are counted toward graduation requirements.

Last updated: August 4, 2020

Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate experience »

## Before You Ask an Academic Dean ...

An Academic Dean is an excellent resource for all Pratt undergrads, and you
should not hesitate to contact them for an appointment.

But before you do that, check to see if your question is already answered in
the policies and procedures section.

## Undergraduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 20, 2023 | Bass Connections

### Taking the Bull City by the Horns

February 22, 2023 | The Chronicle

### Sydney Hunt of Duke ECE Among Duke Young Trustee Finalists

View all undergrad news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

