

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Undergraduate » For Current Students » Policies & Procedures

# Course Load

It is your responsibility to be certain that your course load conforms with
academic requirements. The minimum course load in the fall or spring term is
four semester courses. Seniors may request permission from their Academic
Deans to take an underload of three courses for their last semester.

### Normal Load

A "normal course load" is defined as four (4.0) course credits-specifically
four 1.0 credits-- and, as noted above, you are expected to enroll in at least
this many course credits each semester.

### Overload

You may register for 4.5 credits during your normal registration window, and
can then increase your course load to as many as 5.5 credits in Trinity
College and 5.0 in Pratt during the drop/add period; however, Freshmen may not
exceed 4.5 academic credits in their first semester.

Permission from your academic dean is required for an overload of 5.5 or 6.0
course credits. A course load of 6.0 academic courses is considerably more
demanding than one of 5.0 course credits. In determining whether to approve an
overload to 6.0 course credits, your academic dean will carefully consider
your academic history, including your grades and your course load in previous
semesters. **Under no circumstances will students be allowed to register for
more than 6.0 course credits.**

### Underload

You are permitted to be in an underload, defined as a course load of between
3.0 and 3.75 course credits, only if authorized to do so by your academic
dean. **The number of semesters you may be in an underload cannot exceed two
semesters during your time at Duke,** though this limit excludes withdrawals
for documented medical conditions or other extraordinary reasons known to the
academic dean. A student in an underload is still considered a full-time
degree candidate at Duke.

Note: if you are a scholarship student contemplating withdrawal from a course
to an underload, you should check the conditions of your award to ascertain
whether you are bound by scholarship regulations governing your course load
each semester.

##### **Changes to Underload Policy for Spring 2021:**

  * ##### An underload (3 to 3.75 courses) approved by a student’s dean and
    Director of Undergraduate Studies for Spring 2021 will not count towards
    the student’s academic career limit of underloads.  

  * ##### Students experiencing unusual stress or circumstances due to the
    pandemic may be allowed by their dean to take a withdrawal to underload in
    Spring 2021 that will not count towards the student’s academic career
    limit.

Two categories of underloads may be authorized:

#### Withdrawal to an Underload

During the semester, your academic dean may permit you "for compelling
reasons" to withdraw from a normal course load to an underload. Such a
withdrawal to an underload is possible only prior to the final four weeks of
classes in a semester. After this deadline, withdrawals to an underload are
only permitted for documented medical reasons. If granted permission to
withdraw from a course to an underload for a reason other than a documented
medical condition, you should not expect to receive permission to withdraw to
an underload in a subsequent semester.

#### Enrollment in an Underload _  
_

Under certain specific circumstances, students with a strong academic record
may start a semester enrolled in an underload of between 3.0 and 3.75 course
credits. This is permitted as many as two times in a student's Duke career. To
be eligible for this, you must meet the following conditions:

  * have declared a major;

  * have a GPA of at least 3.0 and not be on academic probation;

  * be enrolled at Duke-enrolling in an underload is not permitted when you
    are studying abroad or otherwise away from Duke;

  * have passed at least 16 courses before a first underload semester;

  * before a second underload semester, have passed at least 20 courses prior
    to the 6th semester or 24 prior to the 7th semester (excluding AP credits
    but including transfer credits) or 31 prior to the 8th semester (including
    AP, IPC, and PMC credits).

If you meet these requirements and wish to start a semester enrolled in an
underload you must receive certification from the Director of Undergraduate
Studies in the major that the underload will not inhibit completion of major
requirements and permission from your academic dean. An **Underload Enrollment
Authorization Form** [PDF, 368 kb] is available for this purpose.

The number of semesters any student is permitted to be in an underload cannot
exceed two, though medical withdrawals are not counted in this number. Thus,
if you withdraw from a course to an underload, which (as noted above) is
permitted only once in your Duke career, you will be permitted to enroll once
in an underload, provided you have met the conditions described above. If you
do not withdraw from a course to an underload in your undergraduate career,
you may enroll in an underload no more than two times, provided you meet the
conditions described above. In short, there are only two possible enrollment
patterns involving underloads:

  * One (1) withdrawal to an underload + one enrollment in an underload, or

  * Two (2) enrollments in an underload

Seniors needing only three (3) courses to graduate may enroll in an underload
only in accordance with one or the other of these two patterns. Seniors who
anticipate that they will need fewer than three (3) courses to graduate must
apply no later than the last business day before the first day of classes in
that final semester for **part-time degree status** , which is not affected by
or a part of the underload enrollment policy described here.

### Cautions Regarding Enrolling in an Underload

When considering whether to enroll in an underload, please note that you:

  * will be ineligible for Dean's List and Dean's List with Distinction that
    semester;

  * may not use half- or quarter-credit courses to enroll in an underload of
    3.0 course credits;

  * may not withdraw from a course during the underload semester; and

  * must pass at least 3.0 course credits in order to meet semester
    continuation requirements and avoid dismissal for academic reasons.

Please also consider whether a semester of enrollment in an underload might
affect:

  * your scholarship or financial aid-check the conditions of your award;

  * your subsequent application to graduate or professional school-consult
    your graduate or pre-professional school adviser.

Last updated: January 30, 2017

Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate experience »

## Before You Ask an Academic Dean ...

An Academic Dean is an excellent resource for all Pratt undergrads, and you
should not hesitate to contact them for an appointment.

But before you do that, check to see if your question is already answered in
the policies and procedures section.

## Undergraduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 20, 2023 | Bass Connections

### Taking the Bull City by the Horns

February 22, 2023 | The Chronicle

### Sydney Hunt of Duke ECE Among Duke Young Trustee Finalists

View all undergrad news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

