

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Undergraduate » For Current Students » Policies & Procedures

# Course Withdrawal

"Withdrawing" from a course differs from "dropping" a course. When you drop a
course, you can do so yourself through DukeHub during the Drop/Add period, and
the course does not appear on your official Duke transcript. However, to
withdraw from a course after the Drop/Add deadline, you must follow a set of
procedures that begins at your Academic Dean's office, and (if the withdrawal
is approved) ends when a grade of W is recorded on your official transcript.

If you are considering a course withdrawal, read carefully the information
under Course Load to fully understand the ramifications of a withdrawal to an
underload.

**NOTE:** Withdrawal from a course will not be approved by the Academic Dean
if disciplinary action is pending, or if a sanction has been imposed by the
Undergraduate Conduct Board related to the course in question.

Students at Duke withdraw from courses for a host of good reasons, and
consequently the receipt of a W grade in a course is not a blemish on your
record.

**The deadline** for requesting to withdraw from a course is four (4) weeks
before the last day of classes. The specific deadline date is published in the
official Academic Calendar set by the Registrar. The Withdrawal deadline is a
generous one and consequently strictly adhered to. It is your responsibility
to decide whether to withdraw from a course and to initiate the withdrawal
process by meeting with your academic dean to obtain a form no later than
11:59 p.m. on the deadline date. To be valid, the completed form must be
returned to your dean's office by the return date indicated on the withdrawal
form. If you miss the deadline, you should expect to remain in and complete
the course in question.

Students enrolled in an overload are permitted to withdraw from a course to a
normal load (4cc) so long as they do so by the withdrawal deadline, but
withdrawal from a course to an underload is permitted only once in a student's
Duke career.

Students on academic probation are expected to remain in a full course load
during their semester of probation and will be permitted to withdraw to an
underload by their academic dean only in compelling circumstances.

##### **_When should you withdraw from a course and when should you
persist?_**

Each situation is unique and you are welcome to discuss the range of your
options with Academic Deans at any time. If you are having great difficulty in
a course such as math, chemistry, or a foreign language where your background
is weak or your study habits are not well enough developed to permit you to
pass the course, then withdrawing from it is a sensible option. Having a W a
transcript is preferable to an F. If you are struggling in a course but think
you can finish the course with a passing grade, then persisting might be
appropriate. This is paricularly true if you are using available resources
(tutors/help room/study groups, Academic Resource Center, etc.), conferring
with the instructor, and believe you are making progress as the semester
continues, then persisting might be preferable. Have a frank discussion with
your instructor about how you are doing in the course, and make sure that you
understand how the grading is done in the class. Know what grades you have to
date and what the best/worst case scenario will be at the end of the semester.
Also ask yourself if you are putting too much time into one course that you
must neglect your other courses, thereby, perhaps pulling down all your
grades.

If you must withdraw from a course, consider it a learning experience. Try too
identify the problems that you encountered and determine how to avoid the same
problems in the future, whether or not you repeat the course from which you
withdrew. Consider that if you have problems in reading, memorization, problem
solving, time management or some other basic skill, the same problems may
affect some of your other courses. For example, students who have difficulty
in math often also have difficulty in chemistry, biology, and courses that
involve problem solving. These same students may excel in courses that involve
reading and writing. Not all courses require the same study habits and skills.
You can consult with a Learning Consultant in the Academic Reource Center to
better understand your learning styles.

###### _**Procedure for Course Withdrawal  
**_

To withdraw from a course, you will need to make an appointment with your
academic dean to obtain a link to the electronic course withdrawal form. You
will need to submit the form, and obtain an electronic acknowledgement from
your instructor by the date indicated on the form.

When withdrawing from a course to an underload--since this is generally only
permitted once--you must meet with your dean to discuss the matter. Contact
your academic dean's office for information about how to proceed.

##### **_Medical withdrawal from a course._**

The deadline for all course withdrawals, including ones for medical reasons,
is 5 pm, on the last day of class (LDOC). This includes all the required,
supporting documentation must also be received by 5 pm on LDOC.

If you experience serious medical problems that interfere with your ability to
successfully complete a course in which you are enrolled, you should schedule
an appointment with your academic dean without delay to discuss your options,
including the possibility of withdrawing from the course. Depending upon how
debilitating your medical situation is, and when in the semester your health
concerns emerge, it may be the case that other types of relief, such as an
incomplete or even a medical leave of absence, are more appropriate.

**_Note:_** If you seek a second or subsequent medical withdrawal to an
underload for a chronic condition, this can be indicative of a condition that
may make you eligible for accommodation under the Americans with Disabilities
Act (ADA). Accordingly, you must consult with a representative of the Student
Disability Access Office (if you are not already registered with that office)
to discuss your eligibility for accommodations through that office, including
the possibility of an additional medical course withdrawal.

Last updated: NOV 17, 2022

Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate experience »

## Before You Ask an Academic Dean ...

An Academic Dean is an excellent resource for all Pratt undergrads, and you
should not hesitate to contact them for an appointment.

But before you do that, check to see if your question is already answered in
the policies and procedures section.

## Undergraduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 20, 2023 | Bass Connections

### Taking the Bull City by the Horns

February 22, 2023 | The Chronicle

### Sydney Hunt of Duke ECE Among Duke Young Trustee Finalists

View all undergrad news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

