

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Undergraduate » For Current Students » Policies & Procedures

# Degree Requirements, Engineering

## Degree Requirements

The BSE degree is awarded to students each May, September and December.
Students who graduate in September or December receive their diplomas by mail,
but they are welcome to take part in commencement exercises the following May.
In the fall, the Dean's Office asks each senior to complete the "Apply for
Graduation" function in Duke Hub during fall registration. **It is the
student's responsibility to complete the "Apply for Graduation" when the email
information is released with explicit instructions on how to do so in order to
be included on the graduation list.** A copy of each student's final grade
report is sent for review to the Director of Undergraduate Studies of the
major department immediately before final graduation lists are prepared.
Certification for graduation is made by the Assistant Deans and the Director
of Undergraduate Studies of the department of the student's first major. In
order to graduate a student must have passed 34 semester courses (within a
period of 10 academic semesters of enrollment), and must have obtained grades
of P, C-, or better in 32 semester courses. In addition, all the curriculum
requirements of the Engineering School and the major department, as set forth
in the University Bulletin, must be met.

## General Requirements

**Writing (1)**  
This requirement is met by completing a University Writing Course.

**Mathematics (5)**

Math 111L, 112L or 122L, 212, 216, and 353 are required for engineers. If you
were approved to skip one of those math courses (for example, if you had the
equivalent of Math 212 in high school, but were not able to transfer the
credit to Duke as college credit, and were assessed and approved by the Math
dept) then you will be required to take an upper level math course. Any
approved Math, Statistics, or Data Analysis course may be used in place of a
skipped math course. Consult each departmental handbook for a list of
acceptable math classes, as they may differ by major. **NOTE: In Fall 2021,
the engineering math sequence has formally changed to the following: Math
111L, 112L or 122L, 218D-2, 219, and 353.** This changes the sequence to take
Matrices & Vectors (Linear Algebra), 218D-2, prior to Multivariable Calculus
(formerly 212, now 219).

An alternative set of Math courses for engineering students who are double
majoring in math (or who started down that path): Math 111L, 112L, 221, 222,
and 356 (or 353 may be taken instead of 356). Note that for these students,
once the Math major path is taken, students must complete this math sequence
and are not able to return to the engineering math sequence.

**FOR STUDENTS MATRICULATING IN FALL 2021** : The new math sequence is Math
111L, Math 112L or 122L, 218D-2, 219, and 353.

**Natural Science (4)**  
This requirement is met by completing Chemistry 101DL, Physics 151L and 152L,
and an elective course in one of the natural science departments which
presents fundamental knowledge about nature and its phenomena, preferably
including quantitative expression.

**Physics**

To satisify the Physics Requirement, students must take PHYSICS 151L & 152L,
and at least one physics course must be taken post-matriculation.

If you have AP credit for PHY 25 and 26, you should take PHY 153L. If you are
not comfortable taking PHY 153L, you have the option of taking PHY 152L, PHY
163, 264, 320, 361, 362, or 567 as your Physics course post-matriculation.

**You do not have the option of taking PHY 151 and then using AP for PHY 26--
unless the _only_ Physics AP credit you have is for PHY 26. **

**NOTE: If a student enrolls in a course that uses PHY AP as a prereq, the
student therefore is unable to take the AP equivalent course as his/her one
Physics post-matriculation. For example, if a student enrolls in a course that
uses PHY 26 AP as a prereq, the student can no longer take PHY 152 as their
one physics post-matriculation after that particular semester.**

**Natural Science Elective (1) (Varies by department)**

Each department maintains a list of allowed courses that will satisfy the
Natural Science requirement. Consult those department websites and/or
departmental offices.

**Social Science and Humanities (5)**

Students in the Pratt School of Engineering are required to have a minimum of
5 full-credit (1.0) courses in the social sciences and humanities (including
foreign languages). More specifically:

  1. At most, 2 of these 5 course credits can be met by any combination of 2 from the following options*:

  * Advanced Placement (AP) Credit
  * International Placement Credit (IPC)
  * Duke-offered courses that are only offered on a
    Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory grading basis.

2\. All 5 courses must have at least one code of SS, ALP, CZ, or FL.

3\. At least one course must have an SS Area of Knowledge code.

4\. Two courses must be in two of the other Areas of Knowledge of ALP, CZ, or
FL.

5\. Courses must be taken for a grade, and not on a selective S/U graded
option.

6\. A student must show depth in one subject area by taking two courses with
the same department subject code--and one course must be at the 200-level, or
above. For departments grouped together such as AMES, Art, Art History, and
Visual Media Studies, or Classical Studies (just to name a few), the depth
requirement is satisfied by taking two courses in the same department, i.e.,
two Chinese courses or two Korean courses, but not by taking a Chinese course
and a Korean course.

*Note for Spring 2021: Normally, courses taken to satisfy this requirement are
not allowed to be taken on an elective Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory grading
option. In Spring 2021, Social Science and Humanities courses taken to fulfill
this requirement are allowed to be taken on an elective
Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory grading option. This will NOT count against the
two minimum combination allowed in Spring 2021.

Non-social science and non-humanities departments (including engineering
courses and other depts) assign SS, CZ, or ALP codes for some of their
courses. Effective Fall 2013, the Pratt school requires that SS/H courses must
be taken from or cross-listed* with one of the following departments or
programs:

  * African & African American Studies
  * Art, Art History, and Visual Media Studies (includes ARTHIST, HCVIS,
    ARTVIS, VMS)
  * Arts of the Moving Image
  * Asian and Middle Eastern Studies (Arabic, Chinese, Hebrew, Hindi,
    Japanese, Korean, Persian, Sanskrit, Tibetan, Turkish, Urdu)
  * Canadian Studies
  * Cinema
  * Classical Studies (Greek, Latin)
  * Cultural Anthropology
  * Dance (only 1.0 credit courses, with a code)
  * Documentary Studies
  * East Asian Studies
  * Economics
  * Education
  * English
  * Ethics
  * Gender, Sexuality & Feminist Studies
  * Germanic Languages and Literature
  * Global Cultural Studies in Literature
  * History
  * Innovation and Entrepreneurship
  * International Comparative Studies
  * Islamic Studies
  * Jewish Studies
  * Latin American Studies
  * LSGS
  * Linguistics
  * Markets and Management Studies
  * Medieval and Renaissance Studies
  * Music
  * Philosophy
  * Political Science
  * Psychology
  * Public Policy Studies
  * Religious Studies
  * Romance Studies (Creole, French, K'iche' Maya, Italian, Portuguese,
    Quechua, Spanish)
  * Science and Society
  * Slavic and Eurasian Studies (Balto-Finnic, Polish, Romanian, Russian,
    Serbian & Croation, Ukrainian, Uzbek)
  * Sociology
  * Swahili
  * Theater Studies
  * Visual & Media Studies
  * Women's Studies

_*EGR 305 and ECON 212 are EXCLUDED from satisfying the SS/H requirement even
though the course is cross-listed. In addition, Writing courses that carry
course codes do not satisfy the SS/H requirement.  
_

AP credits do not carry course codes, however, in the Pratt School of
Engineering we attribute the following Areas of Knowledge to these AP exams**:

  * History (CZ)
  * Psychology (SS)
  * Political Science (SS)
  * Language Courses (FL)
  * English (ALP)
  * Economics (SS)

_**AP exams which have the Duke equivalent as a 200-level course will NOT
count as the Pratt depth requirement._

Consult an academic dean for any question on how AP credits count toward the
SS/H requirement.

**Engineering and Sciences (4)**  
This requirement is met by completion of one course from each of four of the
following seven areas: digital systems, electrical science, information and
computer science, mechanics (solid and fluid), materials science, systems
analysis, and thermal science and transfer processes. Students are expected to
have acquired digital-computer programming capability before their sophomore
year. The programming capability is satisfied by Engineering 103L (53L) or
CompSci 201.

**Departmental Requirements (15)**  
The department administering the major field of study will specify this
requirement. In general, it will consist of both required courses and
electives to be planned in consultation with the departmental adviser.
Including the 4 credits in engineering and applied sciences listed under
general requirements, a total of 13.0 credits in engineering work are
required.

**Total Minimum Requirements: 34**

Last updated: SEPT 6, 2022

Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate experience »

## Before You Ask an Academic Dean ...

An Academic Dean is an excellent resource for all Pratt undergrads, and you
should not hesitate to contact them for an appointment.

But before you do that, check to see if your question is already answered in
the policies and procedures section.

## Undergraduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 20, 2023 | Bass Connections

### Taking the Bull City by the Horns

February 22, 2023 | The Chronicle

### Sydney Hunt of Duke ECE Among Duke Young Trustee Finalists

View all undergrad news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

