

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Undergraduate » For Current Students » Policies & Procedures

# Grades

At the semester's end, instructors submit a letter grade for each student in a
course. This will be a letter grade unless the student completed the course on
the **Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory** option.

If, because of serious illness or other emergency, you cannot complete all the
work for a course, you may request assignment of a grade of **"I"
(Incomplete)** in a course.

If you fail to take a final exam in a course at the scheduled time, the
instructor will record a grade of **"X" (Absence From a Final Exam)**. If you
have a failing grade going into the exam, the instructor may submit a grade of
F for the course.

An **"N" indicates that no grade has been submitted**. A detailed discussion
of grades is available in the Bulletin of Undergraduate Instruction.

_NOTE: If you abandon or otherwise discontinue a course without authorization
from your academic dean, University policy stipulates that the instructor is
to submit a grade of F._

If you receive low grades (Ds and Fs), it can result in an academic warning,
academic probation, or academic withdrawal *****. You are also at risk of not
meeting Continuation Requirements ******. A summary of the consequences of D
and F grades is below.

A summary of the consequences of D, U, and F grades follows:

### **In the First Semester at Duke:** ****

Grades include

While enrolled in

Result  
  
F*

4 or more course credits

Academic warning  
  
DD, DF, FF

4 or more course credits

On academic probation in next semester  
  
DD, F

< 4 course credits

On academic probation in next semester  
  
FFF

4 course credits

Academic dismissal for 2 semesters  
  
FF

< 4 course credits

Academic dismissal for 2 semesters  
  
### **In Any Other Semester:**

Grades include

While enrolled in

Result  
  
F

4 or more course credits

Academic warning  
  
Second D

4 or more course credits

Academic warning  
  
DDD

< 4 course credits

On academic probation in next semester  
  
DDD

4 or more course credits

On academic probation in next semester  
  
DF

4 or more course credits

On academic probation in next semester  
  
FF (passing 3 credits)

5 or more course credits

On academic probation in next semester  
  
FF

4 course credits

Academic dismissal for 2 semesters  
  
F

< 4 course credits

Academic dismissal for 2 semesters  
  
### **In Course Work Completed in 1 or Both Duke Summer Sessions:**

**Grades include**

**While enrolled in**

**Result**  
  
DF

one or both terms

On academic probation in next semester  
  
FF

one or both terms

Academic dismissal for 2 semesters  
  
### **In Course Work Completed in 2 Consecutive Semesters:**

Grades include

While enrolled in

Result  
  
DDDD

N/A

On academic probation in next semester  
  
DDDF

N/A

On academic probation in next semester  
  
DDFF

N/A

On academic probation in next semester  
  
***** In determining whether a student should be placed on academic warning or
probation or dismissal for academic reason, a grade of U earned in a course is
considered equivalent to a grade of F. Regardless if the course is offered
only as S/U or if the student elects to take it on an S/U basis.

** In determining fulfillment of Continuation Requirements, grades of "I"
(Incomplete) and "X" (Absent From a Final Exam) are assigned to be failing
grades until they are replaced by a permanent passing grade.

_Last updated: May 28, 2014_

Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate experience »

## Before You Ask an Academic Dean ...

An Academic Dean is an excellent resource for all Pratt undergrads, and you
should not hesitate to contact them for an appointment.

But before you do that, check to see if your question is already answered in
the policies and procedures section.

## Undergraduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 20, 2023 | Bass Connections

### Taking the Bull City by the Horns

February 22, 2023 | The Chronicle

### Sydney Hunt of Duke ECE Among Duke Young Trustee Finalists

View all undergrad news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

