

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Undergraduate » For Current Students » Policies & Procedures

# Incomplete Course Work

## Policy

If you find that you are unable to complete your work for a course because of
illness, emergency, or reasonable cause, you should discuss this with your
instructor and your academic dean. It is sometimes possible for your
instructor to issue you an Incomplete, or "I." This will allow you to complete
the course work after the semester has finished. There are several issues that
you and your instructor should be aware of if you are thinking about
requesting an Incomplete. **The last day to request an Incomplete is the last
day of class in the semester for which the Incomplete is requested.**

  * An Incomplete is appropriate for limited amounts of work due late in the
    semester, and is at the discretion of your instructor and academic dean.
    Approval is not guaranteed. An Incomplete is not appropriate and would not
    be approved if there are excessive absences, significant work remaining,
    and/or if you are already failing the course. If you have abandoned or
    discontinued participation in a course without authorization by your
    academic dean, university policy stipulates that your instructor is to
    submit a grade of F.
  * If an Incomplete is approved by your dean and instructor, the notation of
    "I" will appear on your transcript in place of a grade. When a final grade
    is given, it replaces the "I", but the notation, "NOTE: I GRADE" will be
    added to indicate that an Incomplete was originally given.
  * If you receive an "I" in a course, you forfeit eligibility for Dean’s List
    honors in that semester.
  * If your work is incomplete and you are also absent from the final
    examination, the instructor is expected to assign an "X" for the course
    (see also Absence from a Final Exam).
  * There are specific deadlines for completing incomplete work (see below)
    and the deadlines for undergraduates differ from those that apply to
    graduate students.

## Deadlines for Completing an Incomplete Course

**If you are in a full course load (or overload) and have only one "I" and no
other problem grades (X, U, F),** the deadline for completing the "I" is the
following:

Unless otherwise limited, you will have until the last class day of the 5th
week of the subsequent semester to complete the work for the course. If you
receive an "I" in the fall, you must complete it no later than the 5th week of
the spring semester; if you receive an "I" in the spring or summer, you must
complete it no later than the 5th week of the fall semester. However,
instructors may set earlier deadlines if they wish, in which case they must
make their intentions known and documented on the Incomplete form. Instructors
have until the end of the 6th week of classes to submit a grade to the
University Registrar. If a passing grade is not submitted by this time, the
"I" will be converted to an F. An exception to this deadline applies if you
are not enrolled for the semester following the assignment of the Incomplete.
In that case, the "I" remains on your record until the next semester you are
enrolled and converts to an F if a grade has not been reported by the end of
the sixth week of that semester.

**If you receive multiple "I" grades or an "I" in combination with another
problem grade or grades or while on an approved underload, consider the
following:**

**In order to continue from one semester to the next, students must pass at
least 3 courses (2 courses in the 1st semester of enrollment).** This
requirement is termed "semester continuation" (see Continuation Requirements).
Courses in which an "I" is given are not considered passed until a passing
grade has been submitted by the instructor to the University Registrar and
recorded. Therefore, if you have multiple “I” and/or “X” grades such that you
have not received passing grades in at least 3.0 courses, you may be at risk
of not being able to continue into the next semester at Duke unless you
complete one or more "Is" by an earlier deadline. Students who do not meet
semester continuation requirements before the start of the next semester are
subject to academic dismissal for two semesters.

If you receive more than one "I," if you receive an "I" in combination with
another problem grade (X, U, F), or if you are in a course underload and
receive an "I" and are thereby failing to meet semester continuation
requirements, you will be notified by your academic dean. In this case, you
will be given the opportunity to complete the necessary work before the
beginning of the next semester. If you do not complete the work by the date of
determining continuation, then you will be determined as NOT meeting semester
continuation requirements and thereby dismissed for two semesters.

**When your continuation at Duke is in question the following policies
apply:**

  * If you fail to meet semester continuation at the end of the fall semester,
    you will need to have passing grades recorded in at least 3.0 courses by
    the day before classes begin in the spring semester.
  * If you fail to meet semester continuation at the end of the spring
    semester, you will need to have passing grades recorded in at least 3.0
    courses by one week prior to the first day of classes for Summer Term II.
  * If you fail to meet semester continuation at the end of the spring
    semester, you will not be eligible to enroll in Summer Session I,
    including summer study away, Duke Engage, or other program requiring you
    to an active student in good standing, an Incomplete must be completed and
    a grade submitted by the first day of summer term 1. If you do not meet
    semester continuation at this time, your enrollment in Summer 1 or
    participation in a summer program will be canceled.
  * If by completing incomplete work you meet semester continuation
    requirements by the beginning of Summer Session II, you may enroll in
    Summer Session II. However, if you do not meet semester continuation
    requirements by the beginning of the second summer term, you will be
    dismissed for academic reasons. The Incomplete will remain on your record
    and you may complete the work due later, up to the end of the 5th week of
    the subsequent enrolled fall or spring semester.

If you have questions about these policies, please see your academic dean.

## Procedure

If you are having difficulty completing a course, discuss your situation with
your instructor and academic dean to find out if an Incomplete might be
appropriate and if there are alternatives. If your instructor agrees to an
Incomplete, you and your instructor should:

  * Complete the form obtained from your academic dean.
  * Identify specifically what work must be done.
  * Set an appopriate date by which you can submit your work and the
    instructor will be available to receive it and submit a final grade.
  * You and your instructor should sign the form and then give the signed form
    to your academic dean to keep on file.
  * Your dean will confirm the appropriate deadline and give the final
    approval, and provide you and your instructor with a copy.
  * Your instructor will then issue an Incomplete at the time grades are
    turned in.

Instructors: To submit a final grade after an Incomplete has been issued, you
will need to send a grade change letter to the Office of the University
Registrar: registrar.duke.edu/faculty-staff-resources/grading.

Last updated: May 3, 2021

Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate experience »

## Before You Ask an Academic Dean ...

An Academic Dean is an excellent resource for all Pratt undergrads, and you
should not hesitate to contact them for an appointment.

But before you do that, check to see if your question is already answered in
the policies and procedures section.

## Undergraduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 20, 2023 | Bass Connections

### Taking the Bull City by the Horns

February 22, 2023 | The Chronicle

### Sydney Hunt of Duke ECE Among Duke Young Trustee Finalists

View all undergrad news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

