

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Undergraduate » For Current Students » Policies & Procedures

# Part-time Degree Status

#### POLICY

Graduating seniors who need 1cc-2.5 cc at Duke to graduate may request
permission to study on a part-time basis in their last semester of enrollment.
To do so, present your request to your academic dean as soon as you know that
you want to be enrolled part-time but no later than the last day of classes
(LDOC) in the term that immediately precedes your final term of your
enrollment at Duke.

As a part-time student, you may enroll in no less than one (1.0), and no more
than two-and-a-half (2.5) course credits. Also, concurrent enrollment at
another university is not permitted. If you are taking 2.5 units or less at
Duke, you will not be able to use additional units taken at another
institution toward your degree completion.

**Note:** as a part-time student you may be denied University housing. Discuss
your eligibility for housing with Residence Life. To discuss your eligibility
for part-time status, confer with your academic dean.

If you are considering Part-Time, and you are:

  * on financial aid
  * a varsity athlete
  * on an F-1 Visa

then please read the notes below carefully.

_**Financial aid**_

Part-time students are eligible for federal and/or institutional aid. Book
allowance will be reduced by half, while housing, meals, and other budget
items will remain the same as for full-time status. Students taking fewer than
2 credits are ineligible for financial aid, either federal or institutional,
with exceptions for some Pell-eligible students who may receive a small Pell
grant only. The part-time semester will count as one of a student’s 8
semesters of total aid eligibility. Any financial aid implications should be
discussed with our Financial Aid Advisor found on Duke Hub.

_**Varsity athletes**_

Student-athletes interested in pursuing part-time status must receive
permission from Heather Ryan (hryan@duke.edu) or Todd Mesibov
(tmesibov@duke.edu) to ensure they continue to meet NCAA requirements for
athletic participation.

_**International students on F-1 visas**_

F-1 regulations require that international students be enrolled full-time each
semester except the final semester before graduation. Due to changing
policies, you should contact your Duke Visa Services Advisor for further input
and advice.

#### PROCEDURE

To apply for part-time status in your last semester at Duke, contact your
academic dean and submit the form no later than the last day of classes in the
term that immediately precedes your final term of enrollment at Duke.

Last updated: April 19, 2021

Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate experience »

## Before You Ask an Academic Dean ...

An Academic Dean is an excellent resource for all Pratt undergrads, and you
should not hesitate to contact them for an appointment.

But before you do that, check to see if your question is already answered in
the policies and procedures section.

## Undergraduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 20, 2023 | Bass Connections

### Taking the Bull City by the Horns

February 22, 2023 | The Chronicle

### Sydney Hunt of Duke ECE Among Duke Young Trustee Finalists

View all undergrad news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

