

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Undergraduate » For Current Students » Policies & Procedures

# Religious Observance & Holidays

## Policy

Students are permitted by university policy to be absent from class to observe
a religious holiday. This policy reflects the University's commitment to being
responsive to our increasing diversity and to enabling students' spiritual
development. Accordingly, Trinity College of Arts & Sciences and the Pratt
School of Engineering have established procedures to be followed by students
for notifying their instructors of an absence due to the observance of a
religious holiday.

Students who miss class to observe a specified religious holiday are expected
to make prior arrangements with their instructor to make up any work missed,
as follows:

## Procedure

  * At the beginning of each semester, you should notify each of your
    instructors of any religious holiday(s) that will necessitate your absence
    from class(es) that semester. Instructor policies regarding class
    attendance vary widely; you are responsible for being aware of individual
    faculty policies and for communicating any intended absences for religious
    observance.

  * As a religious observance approaches, you should send an official
    notification to your instructor that you will miss class in order to
    observe a religious holiday by completing and submitting the RELIGIOUS
    OBSERVANCE NOTIFICATION ONLINE FORM no later than one week prior to the
    date of the holiday.

  * When you submit this form, your instructor will be notified by email and a
    copy will be sent to you. A copy will also be placed in a file which your
    academic dean may access.
  * Because religious holidays are scheduled in advance, instructors have the
    right to insist, where feasible, that you complete the course work prior
    to the anticipated absence in accordance with the course attendance
    policy.

  * Since absence from class due to observance of a religious holiday is
    excused according to University policy, no dean's excuse is required. If
    an instructor is unwilling or unable to excuse your absence from class,
    you should consult your academic dean. It is the responsibility of each
    instructor to communicate the University policy to his or her students and
    to accommodate reasonable requests.

  * Your electronic signature on the form affirms your compliance with the
    Duke Community Standard.

This procedure cannot be used during the final exam period, given the time
limitations inherent in completing end-of-semester assignments, or making up a
missed final exam. You are expected to take final examinations at the
scheduled times and to complete end-of-semester work by the deadlines set by
the instructor. In the event that a religious holiday should fall during exam
week, contact your academic dean well before the scheduled assignment or exam.

## Religious Holidays

The University recognizes that various religious traditions observed by our
diverse student body include more holidays than can be easily included on a
list. Moreover, we recognize that in some faiths observances vary by tradition
and country, and in accordance with the lunar calendar. However, as a guide to
faculty and students in the planning of their courses and assignments, members
of the campus ministry have identified the dates of major religious holidays
that occur when classes are being held during the academic year. This list is
not a designation of religious holidays recognized by the University; nor is
it mean to be all-inclusive. The list found here is merely an aid for planning
purposes.

_Last updated: August 11, 2016_

Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate experience »

## Before You Ask an Academic Dean ...

An Academic Dean is an excellent resource for all Pratt undergrads, and you
should not hesitate to contact them for an appointment.

But before you do that, check to see if your question is already answered in
the policies and procedures section.

## Undergraduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 20, 2023 | Bass Connections

### Taking the Bull City by the Horns

February 22, 2023 | The Chronicle

### Sydney Hunt of Duke ECE Among Duke Young Trustee Finalists

View all undergrad news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

