

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Undergraduate » For Current Students » Policies & Procedures

# Scholarships

Duke University believes that the availability of a high-quality education
should depend on a student’s academic profile, rather than their financial
circumstances. In support of this important principle, the University admits
U.S. citizens and permanent residents without reference to their ability to
pay and meets 100% of each admitted student's demonstrated need through
grants, loans, and scholarships.

## Undergraduate Scholarships

Three types of scholarships are available for undergraduate students: The
first two types are need-based and merit. Need-based scholarships are awarded
by the Office of Undergraduate Financial Aid after a review of the field of
eligible students. Such awards are made independently from the Pratt School of
Engineering. There is no application process.

Merit scholarships are also awarded by the Office of Undergraduate Financial
Aid, with input from the Pratt School of Engineering. These awards are made on
the basis of both academic scholarship and financial need. Again, there is no
application process for these awards.

The last type is a third-party scholarship. These are scholarships granted
from organizations/agencies not affiliated with Duke, such as local churches,
businesses, community groups, etc. These types of scholarships take individual
initiative to find and apply for.

## Graduate Scholarships

Graduate degrees are proffered by the Duke Graduate School, and not by the
Pratt School of Engineering. Therefore, the Graduate School also handles the
awarding of scholarships and fellowships for graduate students.

The application forms for admissions to graduate school are also the
application forms for financial aid. Incoming students who wish to be
considered for the university fellowships or assistantships should so indicate
on the application form for admission and award. Selection of awards
recipients is made on the basis of academic merit and departmental
recommendations.

_Last updated: June 22, 2012_

Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate experience »

## Before You Ask an Academic Dean ...

An Academic Dean is an excellent resource for all Pratt undergrads, and you
should not hesitate to contact them for an appointment.

But before you do that, check to see if your question is already answered in
the policies and procedures section.

## Undergraduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 20, 2023 | Bass Connections

### Taking the Bull City by the Horns

February 22, 2023 | The Chronicle

### Sydney Hunt of Duke ECE Among Duke Young Trustee Finalists

View all undergrad news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

