

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Undergraduate » For Current Students » Policies & Procedures

# Study Away Policies & Advice

With careful planning, Pratt School of Engineering students can make study
away part of their Duke Experience

Pratt students should be aware that:

  * In addition to Duke policies and procedures, Pratt students must also
    follow Pratt School of Engineering's Study Away Policies, and sign the
    Pratt School of Engineering Study Away Contract
  * An important difference is that Pratt requires students to have a minimum
    3.0 cumulative GPA
  * There are important steps to be taken before, during, and upon return
  * Advising and planning resources are available at Duke and Pratt to help
    students interested in studying away

## Pratt Study Away Policies

### 1\. Minimum 3.0 Cumulative GPA

The Pratt School of Engineering requires a minimum 3.0 cumulative GPA to be
cleared academically for any study away program during the Fall or Spring
semester.

It is important for Pratt students to know that this is a difference from the
Duke Global Education Office (GEO), which requires a minimum 2.7 cumulative
GPA. Also, individual study away programs may also require a higher cumulative
GPA.

### 2\. Meet With Pratt Academic Dean

Pratt students must develop an academic plan that includes study away, in
addition to a plan for the remaining semesters upon return.

An initial meeting with your Pratt academic dean should take place 2-3
semesters prior to the planned semester away. The meeting is required for all
students prior to study away in order to discuss viable course options to
continue progress toward graduation.

When a final decision on location is determined and courses identified,
students must discuss and sign the Pratt School of Engineering Study Away
Contract.

The study away agreement is due to your Pratt academic dean prior to
completion of the GEO Participation Agreement.

Your academic dean must submit a final electronic copy of this agreement to
the GEO.

### 3\. Only Two Engineering Technical Courses Are Allowed

While on study away, a maximum of two engineering courses are allowed. With
special permission from the departmental Director of Undergraduate Studies, a
third departmental elective course may be allowed.

Other required engineering courses can also be taken. You can discuss this
with your Academic Dean to determine the appropriate courses.

Students who wish to take courses to satisfy a second major, minor, or
certificate, must confirm with the Directors of Undergraduate Studies of both
departments to confirm courses will count for one or both majors.

Students are at risk of not being able to count study away courses toward
degree requirements if those courses are not confirmed in accordance with the
Pratt School of Engineering Study Away Contract.

### 4\. Only One Course That Requires a Lab to be Completed Upon Return to
Duke is Allowed

Only one instance of a study away course that does not offer an approved lab,
and therefore requires the lab to be completed at Duke, will be allowed.
Furthermore, students will have a maximum of two semesters to complete the lab
at Duke.

* * *

## Advice

### Timing

To prepare for study away, it is important to begin planning—even if you are
just exploring possibilities—as early as the spring semester of your First
Year.

The required meeting with your Pratt academic dean should take place 2-3
semesters prior to the planned semester away.

### Types of Study Away Programs

Visit the Global Education Office website for information about types of study
away programs »

### Advising Resources

#### Global Education Office

The Duke GEO staff:

  * Can discuss GEO policies and procedures, program-specific fees, deadlines,
    and any rules/regulations
  * Maintain a database of pre-approved courses around the world

The GEO database is an excellent place to begin. However, don't limit your
search to just this database. Be sure to look beyond the database, especially
if there is a course or a country you have identified that does not appear on
GEO's list.

Importantly, GEO staff _cannot_ advise you on which courses satisfy
engineering degree requirements.

#### Your Academic Dean

Your Pratt Academic Dean can:

  * Discuss your academic goals
  * Assist in developing an academic plan that includes appropriate course
    work for study away

Meeting with your academic dean is a required step, as outlined in the Pratt
School of Engineering Study Away Policies.

Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate experience »

## Before You Ask an Academic Dean ...

An Academic Dean is an excellent resource for all Pratt undergrads, and you
should not hesitate to contact them for an appointment.

But before you do that, check to see if your question is already answered in
the policies and procedures section.

## Undergraduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 20, 2023 | Bass Connections

### Taking the Bull City by the Horns

February 22, 2023 | The Chronicle

### Sydney Hunt of Duke ECE Among Duke Young Trustee Finalists

View all undergrad news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

