

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Undergraduate » For Current Students » Policies & Procedures

# Graduate and Professional Courses

Undergraduate students are permitted to count no more than 6 graduate and
professional school courses among the 34 courses needed to graduate. These
courses include all courses offered by the Schools of Business, Law, Divinity,
Medicine, and Nursing, and all 700-level and above graduate courses _._ These
courses are generally not open to undergraduate students and special
permission is required for enrollment by undergraduates.

## 500- and 600-Level Courses

500- and 600-level courses are graduate courses open to advanced
undergraduates, normally seniors but well-qualified juniors may also enroll in
them. If you are a sophomore or freshman interested in taking a 500- or
600-level course, please consider that you will likely have ample time later
in your studies to take such a course. In any case, you need to be aware of
the following restrictions on first- and second-year students taking 500- or
600-level courses:

  * **If you are a sophomore,** you can enroll in a 500- or 600-level course
    if you have declared a major. If you haven't declared a major but have a
    strong background in the subject area, meet all prerequisites of the
    course, and obtain written permission from the instructor and your
    academic dean, you can enroll in a course at the 500- or 600-level;
  * **If you are a first-year student,** you are not allowed to take 500- or
    600-level courses. Exceptions are extremely rare and are granted only when
    it can be demonstrated that you have a truly exceptional background in a
    subject and are already familiar with available 200- or 300-level course
    work. If the instructor of a 500- or 600-level course supports your
    enrollment, the instructor will need to provide you with a letter to your
    academic dean, justifying it and addressing your special qualifications
    for it. You will then schedule an appointment with your dean to review the
    letter and to discuss whether your enrollment is appropriate. Your
    instructor's endorsement does not necessarily mean that you will receive
    approval.
  * **For sophomores** (and exceptional first-year students) seeking to enroll
    in a 500- or 600-level independent study course, you must also have
    written permission from the director of undergraduate studies in the
    discipline or, if the independent study is in a certificate program, from
    the director of the certificate program.

## 700+-Level Courses (Graduate School)

Course numbered 700 or higher are not generally open to undergraduate
students. This prohibition extends to all first-year students and sophomores.
On rare occasions, a junior or senior may request permission to enroll in one
of these courses.

This requires written permission from:

  1. The course instructor
  2. The Director of Graduate Studies in the department or program offering the course, and
  3. The Dean of the Graduate School

Then, the student should present the letter to their academic dean, who will
make the final decision. The dean may wish to consult the DUS

## Professional School Courses (Divinity, Business, Law, Medicine, Nursing)

First-year students and undeclared sophomores may not enroll in professional
school courses that are not listed in the _Undergraduate Bulletin._

More advanced students seeking to enroll in a professional school course must
have written permission from:

  1. The course instructor and
  2. The dean of the professional school

Students then present these to their academic dean, who will make the final
decision. The dean may wish to consult with a DUS. If approved, enrollment
must be done through the office of the academic dean.

For a professional course to count toward a major, the student must obtain the
permission of the DUS.

To apply for permission to take a graduate (700-level or above) or
professional school course, you must complete the following request form and
secure the required signatures before taking the form to your academic dean
for final approval. The form must be submitted to your academic dean's office
by 5 p.m. ET on the Last Day of Drop/Add.

_Last updated: January 23, 2013_

AttachmentSize  
Graduate and Professional School Enrollment Form.doc0 bytes  
  
Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate experience »

## Before You Ask an Academic Dean ...

An Academic Dean is an excellent resource for all Pratt undergrads, and you
should not hesitate to contact them for an appointment.

But before you do that, check to see if your question is already answered in
the policies and procedures section.

## Undergraduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 20, 2023 | Bass Connections

### Taking the Bull City by the Horns

February 22, 2023 | The Chronicle

### Sydney Hunt of Duke ECE Among Duke Young Trustee Finalists

View all undergrad news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

