

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Undergraduate » For Current Students » Policies & Procedures

# Final Exams, 3 in 24 hours

Undergraduate students having three final examinations that begin and end
within a 24-hour time period (any contiguous combination of the 9AM, 2PM, and
7PM exam times) or two final examinations during the same exam period may
petition to have one exam changed to another date/time. If one of the exams
under consideration is a block exam, the block exam may not be the exam that
is changed.

  * Print and complete the Petition to Change Final Examination Schedule
  * Deliver the form to the Office of the University Registrar

The Office of the University Registrar will determine if you are eligible to
have an exam changed and confirm that exams are being given in each of the
courses that you have listed. Instructors will be contacted in the priority
order that you have established to request the rescheduling of the exam. The
Office of the University Registrar will contact you via email when an
instructor has responded positively to the request. After receiving that email
from the Office of the University Registrar, you will be responsible for
contacting the instructor to finalize the arrangements for rescheduling the
exam.

**NOTE:** There is no requirement for any instructor to reschedule an exam.
Submission of a "Petition to Change a Final Exam Schedule" does not guarantee
that an exam will be changed.

Any student wishing to petition for relief from unauthorized changes in
his/her examination schedule should contact the Registrar's Office, 1121 W.
Main Street, Suite 1200, Bevan Building, (919) 684-2813.

**Note:** The official schedule of final semester examinations for Trinity
College of Arts and Sciences, the Pratt School of Engineering, and the
Graduate School is prepared and distributed by the University Schedule
Committee. No changes may be made to the examination schedule without the
committee's approval. Generally, final examinations are scheduled according to
the day and hour at which the course meets during the semester.

Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate experience »

## Before You Ask an Academic Dean ...

An Academic Dean is an excellent resource for all Pratt undergrads, and you
should not hesitate to contact them for an appointment.

But before you do that, check to see if your question is already answered in
the policies and procedures section.

## Undergraduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 20, 2023 | Bass Connections

### Taking the Bull City by the Horns

February 22, 2023 | The Chronicle

### Sydney Hunt of Duke ECE Among Duke Young Trustee Finalists

View all undergrad news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

