

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Undergraduate » For Current Students » Policies & Procedures

# Transfer To/From Trinity College

## Transfer To/From Engineering **  
**

Currently enrolled Duke students can apply to transfer between the Pratt
School of Engineering and Trinity College. If you are a Duke student who is
taking time away from Duke, you may apply for readmission and transfer to
Trinity College via the Office of Student Returns.

Applications to transfer are considered at the end of each semester, once
final grades are reported. Deadlines and processes for applying to transfer
are described below.

##### Deadlines

For spring transfer: **Dec. 15  
**

For fall transfer: **May 15**

##### Process

There are three required components of the transfer process and they are
intended to be completed sequentially, and each school transfer process is
described in detail below. Please note, the completion of these steps may take
at least a week--and possibly longer depending on how soon you will be able to
secure appointments. It is advised that you begin your transfer process
outside of the pre-registration times due to the high volume of advising
appointments that occur during that time. Late applications will not be
considered until the subsequent semester deadline, and applications without
documented completion of Steps 1 and 2 will not be considered.

Important--Trinity students applying to Pratt must complete all Trinity
academic requirements until they are accepted by Pratt. Trinity students who
do not fulfill the 1st year seminar requirement because they plan to transfer
to Pratt after their first year will be required to complete a seminar at Duke
during the summer if they are not admitted to Pratt. Students who do not
complete a seminar during the summer will not be eligible to return for the
fall semester. Questions about this should be directed to your academic dean.

### Pratt-to-Trinity transfer

  1. Meet with your Pratt Academic Dean
  2. Meet with Ms. Jen Hoff, Senior Advising Associate, Academic Advising Center (if transferring as a current 2nd semester student, or later)
  3. Apply online

**STEP ONE: MEET WITH YOUR ACADEMIC DEAN  
**

ALL students must meet with their assigned academic dean first. Schedule an
appointment by calling 919-660-5996, or use your dean's online schedule link.
**** Your dean will review the general education requirements for Trinity,
highlight the differences between the two schools and review the transfer
process and timeline during your meeting. Based on the information provided in
your meeting, your dean will advise you on the next step to take for transfer
to Trinity.

**STEP TWO: MEET WITH THE ACADEMIC ADVISING CENTER  
**

##### Transferring In First Semester

Students are only allowed to transfer at the end of their first semester as an
Undeclared major. If you are in your first semester, and not a Transfer
student from another institution ***** , you may proceed to Step Three after
your meeting with your Academic Dean. Once your transfer is processed at the
end of the current semester, you will be assigned a college advsior who will
work with you until you are ready to declare your major. Pratt students who
transfer to Trinity after their first semester, are required to satisfy the
Trinity 1st YR Seminar requirement in their second semester. Students who do
not will be held to Trinity policy regarding the 1st YR Seminar requirement.

##### Transferring In 2nd or 3rd Semester

Schedule a meeting with the Senior Advising Associate, Ms. Jen Hoff, in the
Academic Advising Center by using this link. If you can't find a time that
will work for you, you can email her directly at jen.hoff@duke.edu. When you
meet with Ms. Hoff, you should discuss your interests and goals to help
identify courses that would be appropriate for you to explore. Having a major
in mind is certainly not necessary, but it is helpful to come as prepared as
possible to this meeting in order to have a productive discussion.

##### Transferring In 4th Semester, Or Later

Because you are transferring as a 4th semester (or more) student, you are
required to complete a preliminary four-year plan (What If Report) at the time
of transfer. This is necessary in order to declare your major. Completing the
What If Report requires you to do some preparatory work—checking out major
requirements on the department/program website, and if necessary, meeting with
your prospective major’s Director of Undergraduate Studies to confirm whether
you can complete your prospective major.

Once you’ve completed the What If Report, schedule a meeting with the Senior
Advising Associate, Ms. Jen Hoff, in the Academic Advising Center by using
this link, or emailing jen.hoff@duke.edu. This meeting is to discuss any
specific questions you have about Trinity requirements, and to review your
What If to confirm that you will meet your Trinity general education
requirements. If you have any questions about completing the What If Report
please do not hesitate to contact Ms. Hoff prior to your meeting for
assistance.

**STEP THREE: APPLY ONLINE**

Once you've completed Step 1 and, if required, Step 2, then you will receive
an email with a link to the application. All applications to transfer must be
submitted online by the following deadlines (these are also listed above):

For spring transfer: **Dec. 15  
**

For fall transfer: **May 15**

**Transfer applications are not processed until after the application
deadline. You will remain in the Pratt School of Engineering until
applications are proccessed after the stated deadline. Finally, if you do not
complete step three, you have not completed the transfer process and therefore
will not be processed.**

_* If you are a 1st semester transfer student from another institution, you
should follow the instructions for transferring as a 2nd or 3rd semester
student._

### Trinity-to-Pratt transfer

  1. Meet with a Pratt Academic Dean
  2. Apply online

**STEP ONE: MEET WITH A PRATT ACADEMIC DEAN  
**

All students will transfer as Undeclared and able to declare their major after
the 1st year. Schedule an appointment with your future academic dean by
emailing him/her. You can identify your future dean below by the first letter
of your last name.

###### Marticulation YR

###### Dean Cooke

###### benjamin.cooke@duke.edu

###### Dean Rawls

###### carmen.rawls@duke.edu

###### Dean Temiquel-McMillian

###### lupita.mcmillian@duke.edu  
  
###### Entering Fall 2020

######  A-JAG

######  JAH-QZ

######  R-Z  
  
###### Entering Fall 2021

######  A-HI

######  HJ-O

######  P-Z  
  
###### Entering fall 2022

######  A-HEP

######  HF-O

######  P-Z  
  
During your meeting, your dean will review the requirements for Pratt,
highlight the differences between the two schools, inform you about timeline
and process, and discuss specific information about departmental curriculum.
**NOTE:** A Trinity student who transfers to Pratt at the end of their 1st
Fall semester, and then transfers back to Trinity at the end of the 1st spring
semester will be required to complete the 1st YR seminar requirement.

**STEP TWO: APPLY ONLINE**

Once you've completed Step 1, you will receive an email with a link to the
application. All applications to transfer must be submitted online by the
following deadlines (these are also listed above):

For spring transfer: **Dec. 15  
**

For fall transfer: **May 15**

**Transfer applications are not processed until after the application
deadline. You will remain in Trinity College until applications are proccessed
after the stated deadline. **Finally, if you do not complete step three, you
have not completed the transfer process and will therefore not be processed.**  
**

Last updated, SEPT 6, 2022

Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate experience »

## Before You Ask an Academic Dean ...

An Academic Dean is an excellent resource for all Pratt undergrads, and you
should not hesitate to contact them for an appointment.

But before you do that, check to see if your question is already answered in
the policies and procedures section.

## Undergraduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 20, 2023 | Bass Connections

### Taking the Bull City by the Horns

February 22, 2023 | The Chronicle

### Sydney Hunt of Duke ECE Among Duke Young Trustee Finalists

View all undergrad news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

