

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Undergraduate » For Current Students » Policies & Procedures

# Withdrawal from Duke University

## Policy

You may choose to withdraw from Duke for health or financial issues, for
transfer to another college, or for personal reasons. Withdrawal is done
through your academic dean. Once withdrawn, you may ask to return later, but
with restrictions. You may not apply for readmission for the subsequent
semester. If you have enrolled at another institution while withdrawn, you are
subject to the restrictions on allowable transfer credit (e.g., the maximum
number of institutional transfer credits for the Pratt School of Engineering
is 4.0 credits). If you have withdrawn in order to transfer to another
college, you are not eligible to apply for readmission if your time away from
Duke has exceeded two semesters from your withdrawal date.

## Procedure

To withdraw, you must make an appointment with your academic dean before the
beginning of classes in any term to obtain the appropriate form. Your academic
dean will close your student record, delete any future enrollments, and notify
the appropriate offices. If you withdraw while a semester is in progress, your
dean will assign a W in lieu of a final grade for each course as long as you
withdraw between the first day of class and the first day of the last four
weeks in a fall or spring semester (or before the last two weeks of classes in
a summer term). After these dates, an F grade will be assigned for each coures
unless the withdrawal is caused by an emergency beyond your control. In this
case, your academic dean may assign a W instead. You will also be responsible
for tuition and fees. You may not withdraw in a semester once the last day of
classes has passed.

Questions about withdrawing should be directed to your academic dean.
Questions about financial obligations should be directed to the Bursar's
Office. For information on tuition, fees, and refunds, see the Undergraduate
Bulletin. If you are on financial aid and having difficulty with finances,
contact Financial Aid. If you withdraw and have student loans, you must be in
touch with the Student Loan Office to complete a Student Loan Exit Interview
and to receive information about how to manage any loan payments that may
become due while you are not enrolled. For information on returning from a
voluntary withdrawal, see the Time Away Office.

NOTE: If you are withdrawn from Duke, you are no longer an active student, are
not eligible for benefits afforded to active Duke undergraduates, and are not
permitted to be on campus.

_Last updated: July 12, 2017_

Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate experience »

## Before You Ask an Academic Dean ...

An Academic Dean is an excellent resource for all Pratt undergrads, and you
should not hesitate to contact them for an appointment.

But before you do that, check to see if your question is already answered in
the policies and procedures section.

## Undergraduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 20, 2023 | Bass Connections

### Taking the Bull City by the Horns

February 22, 2023 | The Chronicle

### Sydney Hunt of Duke ECE Among Duke Young Trustee Finalists

View all undergrad news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

