

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Undergraduate » For Current Students » Policies & Procedures

# Transfer Credit: Current Students

  * _Looking forTransfer Credit: Entering First-Year Students?_

## Courses Taken Elsewhere by CURRENT Students

With prior approval from the Director of Undergraduate Studies in the
appropriate department and the Academic Dean, an engineering student may
receive transfer credit for up to four semester courses taken at other
institutions either during the summer term, or while on an approved leave of
absence from Duke. Transfer credit may not be awarded for courses taken while
a student is ineligible to continue at Duke University (such as Academic
Dismissal or Suspension).

Click on the Transfer Credit Approval Form.

#### **Institutional Transfer Credit Information**

  * Departments are responsible for approving courses that count toward a
    major, minor, or certificate and they may have limitations on the number
    of non-Duke courses that will apply. If you are uncertain whether a course
    will apply to major, minor or certificate requirements, you should check
    the information on the departmental/program website or confer with the DUS
    or program director.
  * If the institution attended or to be attended is outside the United
    States, the Global Education Office must approve the accreditation of the
    international institution before transfer credit will be approved. There
    is a place for this approval on the form.
  * You will not receive transfer credit for a course taken online. This
    includes courses traditionally taught online, e.g., University of Phoenix
    courses. Nor does it include courses taken from a 3rd party, EdX,
    Coursera, etc, eligible for transfer credit. Courses must be taken and
    transcripted by an accredited 4-year university. Courses may also not be
    taken from different insitutions within the same summer session.
  * You will not receive transfer credit for a course taken at a junior or
    community college, or for an independent study course work completed
    elsewhere.
  * You will not receive transfer credit for a course if you took the course
    earlier at Duke, and received a grade of D-, D, or D+, unless prior
    approval is received by the academic dean and the Director of
    Undergraduate Studies for your major. You can repeat a course for credit
    only at Duke and then only if authorized by your academic dean (see
    information on Repeating a Course).
  * A 3 or 4 semester-hour course taken elsewhere is equivalent to a 1.0
    course credit at Duke. A course taken at a university on the quarter
    system--such institutions are especially numerous in California--must be 5
    or 6 quarter-hours of credit to transfer as a 1.0 credit coures. Courses
    that are less than 3 or 4 semester hours or 5 or 6 quarter hours may on
    occasion be transferred as partial credit (0.5 credit) courses.
  * You should have prospective transfer courses pre-approved so that you know
    if they will transfer before you invest time and expense. However, if
    needed, you may have courses approved after completion, but be aware that
    approval is not guaranteed.
  * A course taken in the summer must meet for a period of at least four full
    weeks (at least 17 class meetings, excluding holidays, reading periods and
    final exams). See important update below regarding the London School of
    Economics. The limitaiton to one course enrollment in an intensive summer
    term also applies to course work taken at another institution, i.e., you
    can receive no more than one course credit for enrollment in an intensive
    term (under 6 weeks in length) at another institution.
  * Courses that transfer to Duke as a specified Duke course will carry the
    Area of Knowledge code(s) that a Duke course carries. Transfer courses
    that are approved as generic courses (e.g. 100 for lower level, 300 for
    upper-level) for which there is no exact Duke equivalent course can be
    given an Area of Knowledge code by the Director of Undergraduate Studies
    who approves the content of the course for transfer. Final approval of
    Area of Knowledge is given by the Academic Dean.
  * No more than 4.0 institutional transfer credits are allowed, whether in
    the summer while you are an active Duke student or while you are on
    personal or medical leave of absence. This does not include transfer
    credits earned while on a study away program as an active Duke student.
    Once the limit of transfer credit has been reached, no additional
    transferred work will be added to your academic record or used as a
    substitute for a previously transferred course.
  * No more than two technical courses are allowed to be taken at another
    institution.
  * If two courses are taken concurrently, and the lab portion must be taken
    upon return to Duke, only one such course is allowed to be taken in the
    same term. Upon return, students have a maximum of two semesters to
    successfully complete the lab portion of the course back at Duke.
  * Students who have been suspended or dismissed may not transfer courses
    taken during the period of suspension or dismissal. **EFFECTIVE JAN 2023**
    : _Students who are on academic dismissal beginning January 2023, or
    later, are able to take institutional credits in their permanent place of
    residence (i.e., within the U.S. or student's home country), if they do
    not have any outstanding Incompletes._
  * You are expected to present a transcript from the four year college or
    university at which the course work was completed. Duke does not award
    transfer credit for so-called "third-party" transfer situations, i.e. when
    the school attended is not the same as the accredited four-year degree-
    granting institution that issues the transcript.
  * Inter-institutional courses taken at neighboring universities are not
    considered as work taken at another institution, and are exempt from these
    transfer credit policies.

**Important update regarding summer school at the London School of Economics**
: Effective summer 2018, Deans in the Trinity College of Arts and Sciences and
the Pratt School of Engineering will no longer approve summer school courses
at the London School of Economics for "Institutional Transfer Credit" for
transfer back to Duke, as these courses do not meet our requirements for
transfer. This change applies to courses taken in summer 2018 and thereafter.
Courses taken up to or in the summer of 2017 will continue to be approved. If
you still wish to study at the London School of Economics in summer 2018 or
thereafter, please check the program's status at the Duke Global Education
Office (http://globaled.duke.edu/programs).

#### **PROCEDURE FOR TRANSFER CREDIT APPROVAL**

**STEP 1: Submit an electronic Transfer Credit Form.Click here to access the
form.**

Complete the top portion of the form indicating which university or college
you will attend, the beginning and ending dates of the class, and if the
university is on a semester or quarter/trimester system.

**STEP 2: Global Education Office Approval (if the university is outside the
United States).**

_If you will be attending an institution in the United States, skip step 2._
If you will be attending a university outside the United States, you must
request the Global Educuation Office (GEO) approval. GEO must confirm the
accreditation of the international institution you wish to attend.

**STEP 3: Request departmental approval and identification of an equivalent
course.**

Submit the necessary information requested on the electronic form, this
includes the course description or syllabus for the Director of Undergraduate
Studies (DUS) of the department that represents the discipline to be reviewed.
If the DUS approves the content of the course and determines its equivalency
to a specified Duke University course, the DUS will forward the form to your
academic dean, with their approval--along with the Duke equivalent course (and
Area of Knowledge, if appropriate).

**STEP 4: Request your Academic Dean's Approval**

After you receive departmental approval, submit a screenshot or PDF of the
printed schedule, showing the beginning and ending dates of when the class is
taught, to your Academic Dean. In addition, a copy of the university's
academic calendar for the summer session in question. If the class is a 3-or
4-hour semester course or a 5-or 6-quarter hour course taught over a period of
at least 4 full weeks, your dean will approve the coures as a 1.0 credit
course and will give a pre-approval. He/She will hold the form until the final
transcript is received upon successful completion of the course. If your dean
does not approve, he/she will notify you.

**STEP 5: Complete the course and have the official transcript sent.**

Once you know the course has been fully approved, register for the course on a
graded basis (do not enroll in pass/fail grading or for a course offered only
on a pass/fail basis). Complete the course. Request an official transcript
from that institution **addressed to your Academic Dean** and mailed directly
to the Office of Undergraduate Education, Pratt School of Engineering, Box
90271, Durham, NC 27708. Official electronic transcripts are also accepted and
can be sent diretly to your Academic Dean's email address from the credit
granting institution. Once received, the Undergraduate Education Office will
request the Registrar to add the course to your Duke record. If a lab is
required to be taken upon return, the transfer credit will not be posted until
documentation of successful completion of the lab. You must earn a C- or
better to receive Duke credit. Your grade will not be recorded and will not be
included in your Duke GPA; instead the notation "TR" will be recorded on your
Duke transcript in place of a grade.

Last updated: JAN 3, 2023

Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate experience »

## Before You Ask an Academic Dean ...

An Academic Dean is an excellent resource for all Pratt undergrads, and you
should not hesitate to contact them for an appointment.

But before you do that, check to see if your question is already answered in
the policies and procedures section.

## Undergraduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 20, 2023 | Bass Connections

### Taking the Bull City by the Horns

February 22, 2023 | The Chronicle

### Sydney Hunt of Duke ECE Among Duke Young Trustee Finalists

View all undergrad news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

