

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Undergraduate » For Current Students » Policies & Procedures

# Latin Honors

The Latin Honors recognize academic excellence achieved over the duration of
an entire undergraduate career. Unlike the Dean's List honor, which recognizes
academic excellence achieved over the short term (one semester), eligibility
for the three categories of Latin Honors (summa cum laude, magna cum laude,
and cum laude) is based on the cumulative grade point average for all work at
Duke.

Recipients are determined by the following procedure: The grade point average
included within the highest 5 percent of the previous year's graduating class
is used to specify the grade point average needed by those students of the
current graduating class to be awarded the summa cum laude honor. The GPA
included within the next highest 10 percent of the previous year's graduating
class is used to determine the grade point average needed by those students
who will graduate with the magna cum laude honor. Finally, the GPA included
within the next 10 percent of the previous year's graduating class will be
used to determine those students eligible for graduating with the cum laude
honor. Thus, about 25 percent of each graduating class will receive Latin
Honors. (See Latin Honors GPA Cut-offs).

Duke University officially recognizes the following school-wide honors/honor
societies in Trinity College and the Pratt School of Engineering. Each has a
long and distinguished reputation at Duke and throughout the United States.
(For a more detailed description of the standards and eligibility, see
"Academic Recognition and Honors" in the Bulletin of Undergraduate
Instruction.)

**Honor/honor society** **Recognition** **Standards** **Eligible students**  
Dean's List Academic excellence in a semester Semester GPA places student
enrolled in 4 or more courses in the top 1/3 of all undergraduates in Trinity
College or by class in Pratt. May be earned each semester of enrollment. All
undergraduates within Trinity and by class in Pratt  
Dean's List with Distinction Academic excellence in a semester Semester GPA
places student enrolled in 4 or more courses in the top 10% of all undergrads
in TC. May be earned each semester of enrollment. All undergraduates within
Trinity College and by class in Pratt  
**Latin Honors** **Recognition** **Standards** **Eligible students**  
Summa cum laude Academic excellence over Duke career Cumulative GPA places
student in the highest 5% of the previous year's graduating class in Trinity
College or Pratt. All undergraduates within Trinity College and by class in
Pratt  
Magna cum Laude Academic excellence over Duke career Cumulative GPA places
student in the next highest 10% of the previous year's graduating class in
Trinity College or Pratt. All undergraduates within Trinity College and by
class in Pratt  
Cum Laude Academic excellence over Duke career Cumulative GPA places student
in the next highest 10% of the previous year's graduating class in Trinity
College or Pratt. All undergraduates within Trinity College and by class in
Pratt  
Phi Beta Kappa Academic excellence and moral character Three cycles of
election (early, regular, deferred) based on number of graded credits at Duke
and cumulative GPA; no more than 10% of a graduating class. All undergraduates
within their respective school  
Tau Beta Pi Academic excellence and exemplary character Upper 8th of the
junior class and upper 5% of the senior class Pratt undergraduates  
  
Beyond these honors, academically distinguished undergraduates may be eligible
for one or more prestigious international postgraduate scholarships, such as
the Fulbright, Gates, Luce, Marshall, Rhodes, and Winston Churchill.

Duke Engineering's signature undergraduate experience »

## Before You Ask an Academic Dean ...

An Academic Dean is an excellent resource for all Pratt undergrads, and you
should not hesitate to contact them for an appointment.

But before you do that, check to see if your question is already answered in
the policies and procedures section.

## Undergraduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 20, 2023 | Bass Connections

### Taking the Bull City by the Horns

February 22, 2023 | The Chronicle

### Sydney Hunt of Duke ECE Among Duke Young Trustee Finalists

View all undergrad news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

