

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Alumni & Giving » Giving

# Major Gifts

A major gift is transformative and can touch every corner of Duke Engineering

## Our Donors

We recognize alumni and friends who have made major gifts to the Duke
University Pratt School of Engineering.

See a list of our Major Gift Donors »

Your major gift allows us to promote excellence in Duke Engineering's research
programs, recruit and retain the most deserving and brightest students and
attract and support top-notch faculty.

Major gifts have provided desperately needed scholarships, taken a program to
a new level and provided financial stability to a signature program.

A major gift is lasting—It can provide support in perpetuity.

## Major Gift Opportunities

### Scholarships and Fellowships

Financial aid is a core commitment at Duke. In spite of recent economic
challenges, Duke has reaffirmed its commitment to the principles of need-blind
undergraduate admissions. More than half of all Dukes undergraduates receive
some kind of financial aid. In addition, Duke provides funding to virtually
all doctoral students and offers significant support to master's and
professional degree students.

The Pratt School of Engineering is honored to recognize the generous support
of alumni and friends through scholarships and fellowships. They are listed
with our major gift donors, toward the bottom of the page.

#### Financial Aid at the Pratt School of Engineering

At the Pratt School of Engineering, our formula for success begins with
attracting the best students. Support for financial aid, which enables so many
students to attend Duke, is the most fundamental way to invest in tomorrow’s
engineering leaders.

Thanks to a dedicated faculty and an innovative, hands-on curriculum, Duke’s
Pratt School of Engineering offers a premier learning experience. But our
vitality as a school comes from populating our programs with phenomenal
students seeking to make the most out of the opportunities Duke provides.

Our continued ability to attract such bright and ambitious students—students
with the intellect and drive to tackle some of the world’s greatest
challenges—depends on our ability to provide financial aid. We must offer aid
packages that put a Duke engineering education within reach for talented
undergraduates with demonstrated need. We also must offer fellowship support
that allows us to successfully compete for the best graduate students to work
with our faculty on cutting-edge research.

Alumni and friends who contribute to financial aid help strengthen Pratt’s
position and help shape the future for countless students. Support for endowed
scholarships, fellowships and summer stipends, as well as contributions to the
Annual Fund, make all the difference in bringing outstanding students to
Pratt.

#### Undergraduate Scholarships

To lead the way in engineering, we must lead the way in educational
opportunity. Pratt’s undergraduate program has flourished in part because of
Duke’s commitment to financial aid: We admit U.S. students without regard to
their financial circumstances, and meet their full demonstrated financial
need. This twin commitment has been key to our ability to attract a wide pool
of talented, young problem-solvers who spur each other on to excellence today
and who will become leaders in their professions and communities tomorrow.

But maintaining this successful stance is increasingly expensive. With Duke’s
growing enrollment and increased demands from students applying for financial
aid, university-wide, spending on need-based undergraduate aid has grown to
more than $99 million.

We believe that sustaining Duke’s commitment to financial aid not only helps
us to compete for the brightest minds, but is also the only honorable choice
for an institution of higher education truly committed to educating future
leaders. Your investment in financial aid endowment will help us embrace this
ideal and make an enduring difference in the lives of students and their
families for generations to come.

  * Your gift of $100,000 or more can create an unrestricted scholarship that
    enables outstanding engineering students to come to Duke
  * Your gift of $300,000 or more can create a restricted scholarship
    endowment, such as a fund that gives preference to engineering students
    from a particular region

#### Graduate Fellowships

**Our graduate students are a force for innovation.** At Duke Engineering,
master’s and doctoral students not only benefit from an excellent education,
but also make a profound contribution to the school. They advance the research
enterprise, assist faculty, mentor undergraduates, and bring fresh
perspectives to a wide range of conversations. Graduate students are also key
to our ability to attract top faculty, who know these talented young people
will be vital to their own scholarly success. Our challenge is that demand for
skilled engineering talent is high, not only among top university graduate
programs, but also from every branch of industry and from fields ranging from
medicine to finance. We must encourage the most promising students to pursue
an advanced engineering degree—and provide them with a good reason to choose
Duke—by offering funding packages that compete with those offered by peer
institutions.

  * Your gift of $100,000 or more can establish an endowed fellowship that
    supports engineering graduate students at the master’s or doctoral (PhD)
    level
  * Your gift of $300,000 or more can establish an endowed fellowship in one
    of Duke Engineering’s academic departments, such as Electrical & Computer
    Engineering

### Professorships

Duke’s professors are inspiring teachers, motivating mentors, and leading
scholars and researchers. Recruiting and retaining renowned faculty is
essential to maintaining Duke’s excellence. By supporting outstanding faculty,
alumni and friends help ensure that the university’s professors are true
leaders in their fields and that our students receive a relevant and top-
quality education.

The Pratt School of Engineering is honored to recognize the generous support
of alumni and friends through endowed professorships. You can see a list of
current professorships and faculty recipients on our major gift donors
webpage.

### Program Support

#### Experiential Education

Today, hands-on experience defines a Duke Engineering education from Day One.
Our first-year electrical and computer engineers, for instance, build
autonomous robots that can sniff out bad food in a refrigerator or measure how
much energy is being produced by solar panels on Duke’s SmartHome.

Our students have an appetite for project-based learning and service above and
beyond their standard coursework. In fact, nearly 95 percent of our students
have had an intensive research experience or industry internship, or have
participated in one of our extracurricular programs before graduation.

> Nearly 95 percent of our students participate in a research experience,
> internship, or extracurricular program before graduation

These experiences which include senior capstone and engineering design
courses, as well as projects associated with DukEngage, Duke Engineers for
International Development (DEID), the PhD Enhancement Program, Engineering
World Health and Pratt Research Fellows are all designed to provide meaningful
ways for students to apply their technical knowledge and problem-solving
skills in making a difference in the lives of others.

_Private support for problem-focused programs like these can help stroke both
the intellectual and entrepreneurial curiosity of our students._

  * Your gift of $100,000 or more can endow support for innovative educational
    offerings that provide entrepreneurial guidance as well as hands-on
    experiences that have come to define a Duke engineering education.

#### Stipends and Internships

Experience is often the best teacher. That’s why the focus of coursework at
Pratt is hands-on and applied—and why we encourage our undergraduates and
professional master’s students to take advantage of many opportunities outside
the classroom.

Internships, research projects, and other immersions bring our students face-
to-face with real-world challenges and help them develop the skills they’ll
need to be successful in their chosen fields. Unfortunately, many of the most
valuable research or internship opportunities—particularly those with startup
companies or nonprofits—are unpaid, making them an impossible choice for
students who can’t afford to cover their living expenses.

> Stipends put learning experiences within reach

Stipends help put these learning experiences within reach and provides
students with the chance to put their passions and knowledge to work. At the
doctoral level, research stipends and support for professional development are
critical as well. Such funds can support attendance at professional
conferences, cover travel to connect students with researchers at other sites,
or enable students to spend their summers focusing intensely on their
projects.

_Private support for stipends can give students at all levels the chance to
dive into some of the most intensely rewarding projects and experiences of
their time at Duke Engineering—projects that will also set our students apart
as they compete for professional opportunities early in their careers._

  * Your gift of $100,000 or more can establish an endowment that can deeply
    enrich the education of students at all levels, providing stipends that
    enable them to pursue research, internships, and professional development
    opportunities.

## Giving

  * Annual Fund
  * Pratt Parent Circle
  * Major Gifts
  * Major Gift Donors

Solutions to the world’s greatest challenges are waiting to be discovered.
Learn how you can join Duke in investing in science and technology to benefit
people and the planet »

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

