

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Katie Wu

Class Year:

2021

Job Title / Company:

Sustainability Graduate Intern / Lyft

  * Previous Education: BS with Distinction, Research in Animal Science; MS,
    Medical Science
  * Hometown: New York, NY

Before coming to Duke

Prior to attending Duke, I was an MD/PhD candidate within the Medical
Scientist Training Program at the University of Colorado Anschutz Medical
School. In addition to studying medicine, I worked in biomedical research. My
main projects focused on generating a transgenic zebrafish model of thyroid
cancer designed for the rapid development of therapeutic agents and developing
lentiviral-based shRNA knockdowns for Mediator Complex 14 in human leukemia
cells.

Why I chose Duke’s MEM program

I chose the Master of Engineering Management degree at Duke because it
provides a unique opportunity to develop business acumen alongside a strong
understanding of technologically driven approaches. I was attracted to the
program's interdisciplinary nature, which allows me to build domain knowledge
in environmental and energy systems and understand business and technological
strategies to address sustainability challenges.

My favorite courses

My favorite and most useful Duke MEM classes have been Competitive Strategy
with Greg Hopper, and Sourcing Data for Analytics with Jon Reifschneider and
Dan Egger.

Ways I gained leadership experience during MEM

In my first semester, I was an Outreach team lead for our annual Duke-wide
Energy Week event and a cabinet member for the Duke MEM Energy Club. I am
currently the Program Development Committee (PDC) Board President. I lead the
MEM PDC, oversee the Professional and Activity Club Presidents, and act as
student body liaison to administration.

After Duke MEM

I hope to act as a driver of science and technology, working to communicate a
translatable narrative to major stakeholders beyond the scientific community.
Ultimately, my career goal is to lead and implement innovative tech-driven
solutions within the context of sustainability, renewable energy, and climate
change.

My advice to students

I would tell a new MEM candidate to be flexible and explore different areas of
interest instead of immediately narrowing in on one. Your interests might
change in your first semester, so it's helpful to keep an open mind and look
for new opportunities as well. I would also advise them to use their time in
the program wisely and choose courses, projects, or extracurricular activities
they're passionate about and willing to commit to fully.

## On-Campus

  * Duke MEM On-Campus
  * Curriculum
  * Elective Tracks
  * Course Descriptions
  * Flexible Degree Options
  * Student Services and Support
  * Career Outcomes
  * Meet Our Alumni
  * Tuition and Financial Aid

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

