

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Kayako Yamakoshi

Class Year:

2020

Job Title / Company:

Business Operations Analyst / VMware

  * Duke MEM Elective Track: Data Analytics and Machine Learning
  * Previous Education: BS, Computer Science and Business Administration
  * Hometown: Tokyo, Japan

Before coming to Duke

Before coming to Duke, I was pursuing a BS in Computer Science and Business
Administration at Trinity University. I knew I wanted to apply my
interdisciplinary background, but finding exactly how to do it was challenging
as both Computer Science and Business have a wide range of subareas and career
paths. Duke MEM was the perfect place to try out different interests and find
my passion.

Why I chose Duke’s MEM program

I chose the Master of Engineering Management degree at Duke for its strong
community and flexible curriculum. Spending time with peers is one of the best
ways to learn, and I realized those relationships are really valuable and go a
long way. Duke offers various opportunities to engage and connect with great
people even outside the MEM program.

Duke MEM also has a variety of electives and you can tailor your curriculum to
build your unique professional brand. One of my interests was Data Science,
but I wasn't sure how I want to contribute to the field. Do I want to build a
model? Do I want to be a product manager at a data analytics company? Or do I
want to leverage data in business strategy development? The courses and
professors from Pratt School of Engineering, Fuqua School of Business, and
Duke Law were wonderful resources to answer those questions.

My favorite courses

My most favorite core course was EGRMGMT 520—Intellectual Property, Business
Law, and Entrepreneurship. The class was very engaging and involved many group
discussions. As for the electives, the Big Data and Marketing Analytics
courses with Dan Yang were very insightful. Overall, Duke MEM professors are
very kind and happy to help students out—ask questions in class/during office
hours!

Top places to visit in Durham

Nuvotaco (tasty tacos with the best rice), The Honeysuckle Tea House (not
exactly in Durham ... it's in Chapel Hill), and, Umstead State Park (it's in
Raleigh.) I highly recommend exploring different trails on a weekend. North
Carolina has many beautiful state parks!

Ways I gained leadership experience during my time at Duke

I served as a graduate student representative on the Duke IT Advisory
Committee. We improved IT environments at Duke, such as remote learning
infrastructures and user-authentification systems. I was also a student
ambassador for Duke Engineering's master's programs, and had a great time
engaging with admitted and incoming students. During my final semester, I
joined the Duke MEM Product Management Club as well, and completed an industry
project with SAP.

After Duke MEM

I joined VMWare as a Business Operations Analyst. My career goal is to become
an expert in blending data and managerial mindsets to build actionable
business insights.

## On-Campus

  * Duke MEM On-Campus
  * Curriculum
  * Elective Tracks
  * Course Descriptions
  * Flexible Degree Options
  * Student Services and Support
  * Career Outcomes
  * Meet Our Alumni
  * Tuition and Financial Aid

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

