

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Shantanu Thube

Class Year:

2021

Job Title / Company:

Product Manager Intern / The Trade Desk

  * Duke MEM Elective Track: Product Management and Entrepreneurship Tracks
  * Previous Education: BS, Mechanical Engineering
  * Hometown: Pune, India

Before coming to Duke

I was completing my bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering from Purdue
University until Spring 2020. In the summer, I helped my friend on his
startup, improved my filmmaking skills, and continued looking more into
entrepreneurship while networking on LinkedIn.

Why I chose Duke Engineering Management

As someone who wants to get into entrepreneurship in the long term, product
management seemed like the closest industry-job which required a skillset
similar to that of an entrepreneur. I also knew that the aspect of management
was missing from my formal education, which prompted me to look at the
Engineering Management master's degree. After speaking with few students and
alumni, I realized that Duke had a solid reputation for Product Management,
which eventually cemented my interest in pursuing the MEM program at Duke.

My favorite courses

I really enjoyed the Marketing and the Competitive Strategy classes. Marketing
introduced me to the world of making great products for specific segments than
mediocre products for everyone. I also learnt the core basic concepts of a
company, such as creating value for the customers. Competitive Strategy case
assignments pushed me to expand my repertoire by exploring industries I was
not familiar with. I enjoyed working on cases happening right now as we speak,
as opposed to cases from a decade or two ago.

My top places to visit in Durham

Guglhupf Bakery, Cloche Coffee (for chill study vibes), MEM Suite (check out
aromatherapy equipment!).

Ways I gained leadership experience during my time at Duke

  * Co-Executive Director of Marketing at Duke Interdisciplinary Social
    Innovators (DISI)
  * Student Product Manager at the Duke Product Management Club
  * Strategy Research Assistant at Duke's Fuqua School of Business
  * Duke Engineering Masters Ambassador at Duke's Pratt School of Engineering
  * Teaching assistant for the Managing the Product Development course

My favorite Duke MEMory

Connecting with alumni and bonding with them over Duke, speaking with career
services team, trying to make MEM program better for the next cohort!

After Duke MEM

I am working as a product manager intern for The Trade Desk in the Bay Area!
My long-term vision is to get heavily involved in entrepreneurship, both as a
founder and as a venture capitalist.

My advice to new students

Check out the resources available to you as an MEM and as a Duke student as
soon as you can. It is better to know all the help available to you at the
beginning of your time at Duke rather than at the end of it. Also, remember
that after all, MEM is an industry-oriented program. Spend enough time
regularly networking on LinkedIn, exploring internships/job opportunities, and
applying for them. But also remember to take a day or two off to rejuvenate
whenever needed!

## On-Campus

  * Duke MEM On-Campus
  * Curriculum
  * Elective Tracks
  * Course Descriptions
  * Flexible Degree Options
  * Student Services and Support
  * Career Outcomes
  * Meet Our Alumni
  * Tuition and Financial Aid

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

