Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Master's Profile: Bryce Dickinson

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Graduate
  3. Masters
  4. Outcomes

******Current Job Title:** Structural engineer, sole-member and manager of
Dickinson Structural Engineering, Haverford, Pa.

**Undergraduate Degree:** Chemistry, with biochemistry concentration,
Haverford College, 2002

**CEE Master’s Program Path:** Master of Science (MS) – Structural Engineering
& Mechanics, 2008

### What do you do at your job?

On a consultant basis, I work for larger structural engineering firms on the
east and west coasts of the United States. I provide structural engineering
services for typically medium-sized, new and existing building projects and
associated site structures. My day-to-day work involves the structural
analysis, design, and detailing for a variety of project types including
academic, municipal, office, laboratory, hospital, utility, religious,
historic, airport, recreational, residential, and others. In addition to my
day job, I am proud to serve as a structures specialist for Pennsylvania Task
Force 1, part of the National Urban Search & Rescue System.

### How did your time at Duke prepare you for your current job?

My experience at Duke prepared me entirely for my career in structural
engineering. My path to engineering was atypical in the sense that I did not
study engineering for my undergraduate degree. Duke embraced my potential as
an engineer and gave me all the tools to be a highly capable and successful
engineer. As a graduate student, I took both undergraduate- and graduate-level
structural engineering and mechanics courses, while also working on cutting-
edge research in structural dynamics and earthquake engineering with Henri
Gavin. At the end of my time at Duke, I sat for the Fundamentals of
Engineering (FE) exam, which opened the door to professional licensure. I am
now a licensed professional engineer (PE) in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
and a licensed professional civil engineer (PE) and structural engineer (SE)
in the State of California.

### What was the most valuable part of your Duke experience?

The best and most valuable part of my experience at Duke was undoubtedly the
people. Faculty and staff in the Duke Department of Civil and Environmental
Engineering represent the best of their fields, and are committed to the well-
being and success of the students. In addition to the unwavering support
provided by the entire department during my graduate experience, Dr. Gavin has
continued to be a mentor to me in my life and my career long after I have left
Duke. Furthermore, working with the other graduate students had a profound
impact on my quality of life at Duke. For example, Dr. Jessica Saunders, a
Duke Civil and Environmental Engineering PhD, has been an influential friend,
role model, and mentor to me in my academic and professional career. Without
the care and generosity of these individuals, who work tirelessly to make your
goals their goals, I would not be where I am today.

### What were the most useful courses you took at Duke?

Having not studied engineering while earning my undergraduate degree, as a
graduate student I took undergraduate-level math and mechanics courses while
simultaneously taking advanced graduate level courses in structural dynamics,
finite elements, and steel and concrete design. Every course I took at Duke
was critically important to my career, and I honestly cannot think of one that
could have been left out. I can only say that I wish I had more time at Duke
and could have taken them all.

### What advice would you give to someone considering a master’s degree in CEE
at Duke?

Soak up the experience. I am for living a balanced life and would not want to
suggest that you burn yourself out in graduate school, but the experience is
short, and you will likely find yourself wishing you had more time at Duke. So
seek out positive interactions, opportunities for learning, and opportunities
to share your knowledge and energy with faculty, staff, and your fellow
students.

### Why did you choose Duke for your master's degree?

My path to engineering wasn't typical, coming to Duke I had no engineering
experience. I was working in the emergency management field, both as a EMT and
as the director of emergency services for a chapter of the American Red Cross.
The work was interesting and very rewarding, but for me personally I wanted my
day-to-day efforts to have a more technical/mathematical basis and wanted my
contribution to the emergency management field to have more specific technical
expertise. After a thorough evaluation, I decided that structural engineering
would allow me to work more often on the mitigation side of the emergency
management cycle, and at the same time provide this desired day-to-day
experience. The faculty and staff at Duke understood the vision I had for my
career, believed in my potential as an engineer, and supported my pursuit of
these goals. It is a continual balancing act, but between my day job and my
role in the urban search and rescue system, I believe I have found the perfect
marriage of my interests.

Learn More

____

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Master's Contacts

### Mike Bergin

Professor and Director of Master's Studies

__919-660-5209

__cee-dms@duke.edu

### Nicolle Hinz

Program Coordinator

__919-660-4977

__nicolle.hinz@duke.edu

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

