Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Master's Profile: Doreen Wong

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Graduate
  3. Masters
  4. Outcomes

******Current Job Title:** Senior Consultant (Staff Technical Specialist),
Booz Allen Hamilton

**Undergraduate Degree:** Materials Science & Engineering, University of
California, Berkeley, 2012

**CEE Master’s Program Path and grad year:** Master of Engineering (MEng),
2014

### What do you do at your job?

I am currently a senior consultant at Booz Allen Hamilton. I consult clients
on infrastructure, energy and environmental topics, focusing on climate
change, clean energy, sustainability, decision analytics and engineering. I
work on a wide range of environmental mission projects, supporting the
development and implementation of business strategies and policies at the
organizational and national levels. I also lead modeling and analyses for
projects, evaluating the return-on-investment of publicly- and privately-
invested energy, water and sustainability programs and initiatives.

### How did your time at Duke prepare you for your current job?

Duke provided flexibility in my education. I was able to enroll in a variety
of courses within the Pratt School of Engineering, the Nicholas School of the
Environment and the Fuqua School of Business. This allowed me to develop an
interdisciplinary education tailored to my professional development and career
interests. Since I enjoy engaging with a diverse group of people on different
topics, Duke’s interdisciplinary education also cultivated my cross-functional
skillset that prepared me well for a career in consulting.

### What was the most valuable part of your Duke experience?

The personal, one-on-one interactions with professors and access to various
career resources across different graduate programs were valuable to my
educational and professional development. I enjoyed being a part of the
graduate programs’ small, close-knit communities. While serving as a
representative of the Graduate and Professional Student Council (GPSC) during
the second year of my master’s program at Duke, I had the pleasure of meeting
graduate and professional students across the graduate schools and organized
special fun events, such as game watches for Duke basketball games, social
outings and on-campus volunteer activities for students.

### What were the most useful classes you took at Duke?

The most useful classes that I took at Duke were:

  * ENVIRON 631 Energy Technology & Impact on the Environment
  * ENVIRON 716 Modeling for Energy Systems
  * ENRGYENV 625 Energy Markets & Innovation
  * EGRMGMT 590 Innovation Management in Technology-based Organizations

These courses prepared me well for my career—an intersection of business and
technology.

### What advice would you give to someone considering a Master's degree in CEE
at Duke?

For someone considering a master’s degree in CEE at Duke, my advice is to
really think about the potential opportunities that you can develop based on
the specialization(s) that you choose for your master’s degree in CEE. Be open
to gaining new insights and experiences that may not traditionally be on the
path that you imagined. Also, do not be afraid to speak up when talking with
your faculty advisors about your interests. I could have finished my master’s
program in one-and-a-half years, but I took an extra semester (making it two
years at Duke) to broaden my education with other graduate programs.

### Why did you choose Duke for your MEng degree?

I chose Duke for my Master of Engineering (MEng) degree to gain an
interdisciplinary graduate education that intersected my interests in
business, policy, technology and entrepreneurship. Having grown up in a
community of liberal arts colleges (Claremont Colleges in Claremont, Calif.)
and after attending a large public university (UC Berkeley), I wanted to
attend a smaller school with top-notch graduate programs that allowed me to
further develop my knowledge and skillset in energy and the environment. Since
I have an engineering background, and Duke’s CEE is well-connected with the
Nicholas School of the Environment, and Duke’s Master of Engineering
Management and Master of Engineering programs are well-connected with the
Fuqua School of Business, I felt that I could continue to pursue my
engineering studies while exploring new educational opportunities in business
and policy. Duke also has a very strong alumni network, and the alumni
connections that I have made since I left Duke have provided me mentorship,
new career opportunities and friendships across the United States and the
world.

Learn More

____

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Master's Contacts

### Mike Bergin

Professor and Director of Master's Studies

__919-660-5209

__cee-dms@duke.edu

### Nicolle Hinz

Program Coordinator

__919-660-4977

__nicolle.hinz@duke.edu

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

