Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Masters Profile: Elizabeth Neely

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Graduate
  3. Masters
  4. Outcomes

**Current Job Title:** Consultant, Advisory Services Sector, WSP

**Undergraduate Degree:** Mathematical Sciences and Art, Colby College

**CEE Master’s Program Path:** Master of Engineering (MEng) – Civil
Engineering, 2015

### Tell us about your job!

I work at WSP as a consultant in our Advisory Services Sector, which provides
high-level strategic services for our clients, who are primarily public
transportation agencies. Ultimately, we help our clients procure, develop,
manage, finance and invest in their programs and projects. For me, I am on the
finance side—I help transit agencies (heavy rail, light rail, bus rapid
transit, and ferry systems) find ways to pay for their projects, and map their
financial plans for them.

### What’s your favorite thing about your job?

It's always changing. I'm always working on different projects at the same
time, so it allows for a lot of variety, which I love. I also have evolved
since starting in my group, and can work on different modes and different
projects than originally assigned (like freight projects in the Midwest, which
is completely different than my original projects for light rail on the East
Coast).

### Why did you choose Duke for your master’s degree?

I chose Duke for a number of reasons: 1) I needed a program that was more
theoretical because I had not received an undergraduate degree in engineering,
and knew that if was more theoretical, I could keep up with my math
background; 2) I spoke to a variety of professors at different schools to
better understand the curriculum, and felt Duke’s was the best fit for me; 3)
I spoke to the company I was targeting after my graduate degree (actually,
where I currently work), and asked their opinion; 4) My sister was getting her
MBA at Fuqua, so having family close was appealing, and; 5) I'd always wanted
to go to Duke—it had been a lifelong dream.

### How did Duke help prepare you for your current job?

Duke was a great place for me to start my learning process with engineering.
Primarily, my adviser (Henri Gavin) was my biggest resource. He knew my goals
and made sure that I stayed on a path that made the most sense—which included
taking classes outside of Pratt. I found it really helpful that he encouraged
that and supported that.

### What advice would you give a master’s student just starting at Duke?

Map out your path before you arrive at Duke. After you have been admitted, map
out various paths that would work for you and that could help you choose
classes, professors, extracurricular activities, internships, full-time jobs,
etc.

Meet Other Graduates

____

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Master's Contacts

### Mike Bergin

Professor and Director of Master's Studies

__919-660-5209

__cee-dms@duke.edu

### Nicolle Hinz

Program Coordinator

__919-660-4977

__nicolle.hinz@duke.edu

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

