Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Graduate Profile: Huidi Ji

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Graduate
  3. Masters
  4. Outcomes

**Current Position:** SIMULIA Research and Development, Senior Development
Manager

**Undergraduate Degree:** Naval architecture, Shanghai Jiaotong University,
1997

**Graduate Study in Computational Mechanics: **PhD, Duke University; Thesis:
Using the extended finite element method to model phase transformation and
growth of hydrogels

**Advisor:**John Dolbow

### What do you do at your job?

In my role as a senior development manager, I develop finite element software
that performs structural analysis.

### How did your time at Duke prepare you for your current job?

During my time at Duke I was able to enhance my skills in programming by
taking undergraduate courses from the computer science department, and I was
also able to acquire knowledge in both linear and nonlinear finite element
analysis in the civil engineering, computer science and biomedical engineering
departments. My thesis was also very helpful—the time I spent developing
finite elements software for that project allowed me to easily take on
development tasks at my current job.

### What was the most valuable part of your Duke experience? ****

The problem-solving skills I learned were the most valuable part of my Duke
experience. For example, I learned how to solve a problem starting from
deriving a linearized solution, which I implemented into the finite element
code and then validated the results with published data. This is essentially
the workflow of my job as a development manager, so getting that experience at
Duke was very helpful to me.

### Why did you want to study computational mechanics? ****

I always had an interest in math and programming, so I knew that I wanted to
work in a field that combined the two. The interest definitely grew as I got
deeper into the program. The problem solving part was the most attractive
part. The definition of “enjoyment” is different from a common feeling, like
enjoying food, music or a particular sport. The joy comes from months of hard
work, developing an approach, understanding its advantages and disadvantages,
finding bugs in the program, and eventually getting results because of your
belief in the method. Computational mechanics is not for everyone, for sure. A
student will not enjoy the program unless they have perseverance, welcomes a
challenge, and appreciates the final outcome. For my current job, seeing
customers using the code I developed for their daily work is a big reward.
****

### What advice do you have for other students who want to pursue a degree in
computational mechanics?

I advise anyone who wants to study computational mechanics to develop a strong
foundation in the field and build from there. So ensuring that you have solid
skills in math and physics goes a long way in helping you achieve success. I
also think that it’s necessary for students to understand the real-life
applications of the science, as it serves as a great motivator for the work.

### Why did you choose Duke for your PhD degree?

I chose Duke for my PhD because of the strength of Duke’s academic reputation,
and because I felt that there was a lot of interesting work happening in the
Civil and Environmental Engineering (CEE) department. The initial interview
with my advisor was also helpful in my decision-making process, as the
interview helped me see that we would work well together.

Explore Computational Mechanics

____

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Master's Contacts

### Mike Bergin

Professor and Director of Master's Studies

__919-660-5209

__cee-dms@duke.edu

### Nicolle Hinz

Program Coordinator

__919-660-4977

__nicolle.hinz@duke.edu

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

