Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Master's Profile: Rachel Fleming

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Graduate
  3. Masters
  4. Outcomes

**Current Job Title:** Lead Engineer, MBP

**Previous Job Title:** Marketing Specialist, Gilbane Building Company

**Undergraduate Degree:** Civil Engineering with Architectural Engineering
Certificate, Duke University

**CEE Master’s Program Path and grad year:** 4+1 undergraduate into Master of
Engineering (MEng), Structural Track, 2013

### What do you do at your job?

As Lead Engineer at MBP in Raleigh I am fortunate to have many roles including
owner's representative for construction management, construction claims
analyst, cost estimator and business development. In addition, MBP supports my
participating in the National Association of Women in Construction (NAWIC)
where I currently serve as Durham Chapter president.

### Are you involved in any organizations?

Recently I have gotten involved with the leadership team of the Duke Triangle
Area Pratt Alumni. I enjoy networking with other local alumni and interacting
with current students through resume reviews, mock interviews and other
events. I also now volunteer for Dress for Success after learning about the
organization through a Duke Women's Forum event.

### How did your time at Duke prepare you for your current job?

My time at Duke prepared me for my current job by teaching me critical problem
solving skills and giving me valuable practice working in teams to develop
project strategy.

### What was the most valuable part of your Duke experience?

There were many valuable parts of my Duke Master of Engineering (MEng)
experience, but I think the introductory business courses that I took through
the program provided excellent opportunities to understand basic business
concepts and to engage with teams to prepare and deliver presentations, which
are valuable skills in any industry.

### What advice would you give to someone considering a master’s degree in CEE
at Duke?

I encourage anyone who is pursuing an advanced degree to make the most of
their time at Duke by exploring your interests, connecting with master's
students in other departments and developing relationships with your
professors. I also think it’s important to utilize the career center resources
and reach out to Duke alumni to learn about their career experiences.

### Why did you choose Duke for your MEng degree?

I was grateful for the opportunity to take advantage of the 4+1 program that
Duke offers for undergraduate Pratt students, which allows students to obtain
their BSE and a graduate degree within five years. Through this program, I
enjoyed introducing my classmates to Duke and Durham and expanding my Duke
network and connections.

Learn More

____

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Master's Contacts

### Mike Bergin

Professor and Director of Master's Studies

__919-660-5209

__cee-dms@duke.edu

### Nicolle Hinz

Program Coordinator

__919-660-4977

__nicolle.hinz@duke.edu

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

