Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Bioelectric Engineering

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Research

Research in Bioelectric Engineering at Duke spans a range of length scales
from the ion-channel to the organ level. One of the main areas of focus is the
development of realistic mathematical and computer models of cardiac muscle.

One of the strengths of Bioelectric Engineering research at Duke is the close
relationship between modelers and experimentalists. In vitro experimental work
uses micropatterning of cardiac cells and optical mapping of membrane
potentials to study the normal and abnormal electrical function of synthetic
heart tissues.

Animal experimental work uses high-density electrical mapping to examine the
effect of interventional therapies (e.g., catheter ablation and automatic
implantable cardioverter/defibrillator implantation) upon electrical activity
of the heart. Experimental and simulation studies are being conducted to
elucidate the electrophysiological processes underlying arrhythmias and
arrhythmia control.

Duke BME researchers also collaborate with faculty from Duke's Math and
Physics Departments in using methods of nonlinear dynamics to characterize and
control electrical activity of the heart.

## A Decade of Trailblazing

Explore highlights of Duke BME scholarship in our 2008-2018 Nature Reprint
Collection »

## Primary Faculty

### Roger C. Barr

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Bioelectricity and biomedical computing.

### Nenad Bursac

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Embryonic and adult stem cell therapies for heart and
muscle disease; cardiac and skeletal muscle tissue engineering; cardiac
electrophysiology and arrhythmias; genetic modifications of stem and somatic
cells; micropatterning of proteins and hydrogels.

### Yiyang Gong

Assistant Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Recording and understanding brain activity by developing
novel combinations of optical microscopy and genetically encoded sensors.
Using these technologies, we wish to dissect neural circuit function and
investigate how neural activity drives complex behaviors.

### Warren M. Grill

Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Neural engineering and neural prostheses and include
design and testing of electrodes and stimulation techniques, the electrical
properties of tissues and cells, and computational neuroscience with
applications in restoration of bladder function, treatment of movement
disorders…

### Craig S. Henriquez

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Large-scale computing, heart modeling, and brain modeling.

### Marc A. Sommer

Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Neuronal circuits of the brain, including recording from
single neurons and studying the effects of inactivating or stimulating well-
defined brain areas. His goals are to understand how individual areas process
signals and how multiple areas interact to cause cognition and…

### Michael Raphael Tadross

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Our goal is to bridge the gap between the study of brain
as a computational device and the search for novel neuropathological
treatments. We develop technologies to manipulate molecules, cells, and
synapses in the brain, and deploy these reagents in mouse models of disease.

### Jonathan Viventi

Assistant Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Using flexible electronics to create new technology for
interfacing with the brain at high resolution over large areas. These new
tools can help diagnose and treat neurological disorders such as epilepsy, and
help improve the performance of brain machine interfaces.

### Patrick D. Wolf

Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Advanced instrumentation for diagnosis and treatment of
electrophysiological problems. This research covers two primary organ systems:
the heart and the brain. In the heart, Dr. Wolf is developing an image guided
ablation system for treatment of arrhythmias. In the brain, he is…

## Secondary Faculty

### Angel V Peterchev

Associate Professor in Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences

## Faculty Emeritus

### Wanda Krassowska Neu

Professor Emeritus of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Electroporation-mediated drug delivery and gene therapy;
Control of cardiac arrhythmias using nonlinear dynamics

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

