Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Biomedical and Health Data Sciences

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Research

New biomedical imaging and sensing technologies are generating data at an
unprecedented pace. The increasing availability of electronic health records
data has enabled data-driven inquiry into contemporary health care issues.
Researchers in Duke BME are developing innovative data science, machine
learning, and digital health modeling approaches to transform multi-scale
biomedical data (e.g. multi-omics, imaging, wearable sensors, and electronic
health records data) into actionable health insights.

There are extensive collaborations between our BME faculty and Duke University
Medical Center clinicians to rapidly translate large-data analysis tools
developed at Duke BME for both the patient bedside and broader
commercialization.

This research community is supported and enhanced by numerous centers and
programs, including:

  * Duke Center for Applied Genomics & Precision Medicine
  * Duke Institute for Health Innovation
  * Duke MEDx
  * Fitzpatrick Institute for Photonics at Duke
  * Rhodes Information Initiative at Duke

## A Decade of Trailblazing

Explore highlights of Duke BME scholarship in our 2008-2018 Nature Reprint
Collection »

## Primary Faculty

### Jessilyn Dunn

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Use of large-scale biomedical datasets to model and guide
personalized therapies.

### Timothy Dunn

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Machine learning, computer vision, neurobiology, animal
behavior, computational neuroscience, prognostic modeling, traumatic brain
injury

### Sina Farsiu

Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Focused on medical imaging and machine learning to improve
the overall health and vision outcome of patients with ocular and neurological
diseases (e.g., age-related macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathy,
Alzheimer, and ALS) through earlier and personalized therapy.

### Craig S. Henriquez

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Large-scale computing, heart modeling, and brain modeling.

### Roarke Horstmeyer

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Computational optics, machine learning, and designing new
algorithms for image processing. A main focus is to improve how we capture and
use images of microscopic phenomena within a range of biomedical contexts. In
general, I like to create new optical devices that can improve…

### Mark L. Palmeri

Professor of the Practice in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Ultrasonic imaging, specifically using acoustic radiation
force to characterize the mechanical properties of tissue, and finite element
analysis of soft tissue response to impulsive radiation force excitation.
Other research interests include ultrasonic bioeffects and mechanical…

### Nimmi Ramanujam

Robert W. Carr, Jr., Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Innovating on optical strategies to peer into the
biological landscape of thick tissues. Technologies being developed in her lab
leverage principles of optical spectroscopy, optical sectioning microscopy,
and molecular imaging. Her research group is developing and applying these…

### Amanda Randles

Alfred Winborne and Victoria Stover Mordecai Assistant Professor of Biomedical
Sciences

Research Interests: Biomedical simulation and high-performance computing

### Daniel Reker

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Integration of active machine learning, biomedical data
science, and biochemical experiments for the analysis and design of
personalized therapeutic opportunities.

### Lingchong You

James L. Meriam Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Quantitative biology, synthetic biology, machine learning,
antibiotic resistance, microbiome

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

