Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Biomedical Imaging and Biophotonics

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Research

The Duke BME program is a world leader in development of novel biomedical
imaging technologies, with translational and basic science applications.

In the past few decades, our faculty have pushed the boundaries of discovery
and innovation in optics and photonics (e.g. optical coherence tomography and
low-coherence interferometry), ultrasound (e.g. acoustic radiation force
impulse based elasticity imaging), MRI, X-ray, and nuclear medicine-based
imaging technologies, developing new diagnostic and treatment tools for
ailments ranging from cancer to cardiovascular, neurological, and ophthalmic
diseases.

Our research efforts span from advancing the physics and mathematical theory
of imaging, image acquisition, and image processing to hardware design and
clinical applications. We address longstanding problems in development of
multi-dimensional and multi-modality imaging systems with unmatched image
acquisition speed, resolution, and penetration depth. We investigate
development of complex image-guided clinical tools (e.g., autonomous surgical
robots) to cheap and robust image diagnostic technologies (e.g., cellphone
cameras).

There are extensive collaborations between our biomedical imaging and Duke
University Medical Center clinicians, resulting in rapid translation of
numerous imaging technologies developed at Duke BME to the patient bedside and
commercialization.

The Biomedical Imaging research community at Duke is supported and enhanced by
numerous centers and programs, including the Fitzpatrick Institute for
Photonics, the Duke Center for In Vivo Microscopy, the Center for Global
Women’s Health Technologies, and the Duke Medical Imaging Training Program.

## A Decade of Trailblazing

Explore highlights of Duke BME scholarship in our 2008-2018 Nature Reprint
Collection »

## Department Chair

### Joseph A. Izatt

Michael J. Fitzpatrick Distinguished Professor of Engineering

Research Interests: Biomedical optics and spectroscopy, coherence-based
imaging and microscopy, novel instrumentation for minimally invasive medical
diagnostics, and real-time image-guided robotic microsurgery.

## Primary Faculty

### Timothy Dunn

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Machine learning, computer vision, neurobiology, animal
behavior, computational neuroscience, prognostic modeling, traumatic brain
injury

### Sina Farsiu

Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Focused on medical imaging and machine learning to improve
the overall health and vision outcome of patients with ocular and neurological
diseases (e.g., age-related macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathy,
Alzheimer, and ALS) through earlier and personalized therapy.

### Yiyang Gong

Assistant Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Recording and understanding brain activity by developing
novel combinations of optical microscopy and genetically encoded sensors.
Using these technologies, we wish to dissect neural circuit function and
investigate how neural activity drives complex behaviors.

### Joseph A. Izatt

Michael J. Fitzpatrick Distinguished Professor of Engineering

Research Interests: Biomedical optics and spectroscopy, coherence-based
imaging and microscopy, novel instrumentation for minimally invasive medical
diagnostics, and real-time image-guided robotic microsurgery.

### David F. Katz

Nello L. Teer, Jr. Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering, in the
Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School of Engineering

Research Interests: Methods for prophylaxis against STD's, emphasizing topical
microbicides and contraception; biofluid mechanics; rheology and transport
phenomena; biophysical aspects of mammalian sperm motility, sperm transport,
and fertilization; and biomechanical functioning of the vitreous of…

### Kathryn Radabaugh Nightingale

Theo Pilkington Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Ultrasonic and elasticity imaging, specifically nonlinear
propagation, acoustic streaming and radiation force; the intentional
generation of these phenomena for the purpose of tissue characterization;
finite element modeling of normal and diseased tissue when exposed to…

### Mark L. Palmeri

Professor of the Practice in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Ultrasonic imaging, specifically using acoustic radiation
force to characterize the mechanical properties of tissue, and finite element
analysis of soft tissue response to impulsive radiation force excitation.
Other research interests include ultrasonic bioeffects and mechanical…

### Nimmi Ramanujam

Robert W. Carr, Jr., Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Innovating on optical strategies to peer into the
biological landscape of thick tissues. Technologies being developed in her lab
leverage principles of optical spectroscopy, optical sectioning microscopy,
and molecular imaging. Her research group is developing and applying these…

### Gregg E. Trahey

Robert Plonsey Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Medical ultrasound, image guided surgery, adaptive
imaging, imaging of tissue's mechanical properties, and radiation force
imaging.

### Tuan Vo-Dinh

R. Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Distinguished Professor of Biomedical
Engineering

Research Interests: Biophotonics, laser-excited luminescence spectroscopy,
room temperature phosphorimetry, synchronous luminescence spectroscopy,
surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy, field environmental instrumentation,
fiberoptics sensors, nanosensors, biosensors and biochips for the protection…

### Olaf T. Von Ramm

Thomas Lord Distinguished Professor of Engineering

Research Interests: Diagnostic ultrasound imaging systems, IR imaging, medical
instrumentation and their new applications.

### Adam P. Wax

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Optical spectroscopy for early cancer detection, novel
microscopy and interferometry techniques.

### Patrick D. Wolf

Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Advanced instrumentation for diagnosis and treatment of
electrophysiological problems. This research covers two primary organ systems:
the heart and the brain. In the heart, Dr. Wolf is developing an image guided
ablation system for treatment of arrhythmias. In the brain, he is…

### Junjie Yao

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Photoacoustic tomography (PAT) technologies, and
translating PAT advances into diagnostic and therapeutic applications,
especially in functional brain imaging and early cancer theranostics.

## Secondary Faculty

### Alexandra Badea

Associate Professor in Radiology

Research Interests: Alzheimer's Disease, Brain Imaging, MRI, Connectivity,
Multivariate Biomarkers, Image Analysis, Neurological Conditions.

### Louis Edwin DeFrate

Professor in Orthopaedic Surgery

### Bastiaan Driehuys

Professor of Radiology

### G. Allan Johnson

Charles E. Putman University Distinguished Professor of Radiology

### Anthony Nanlin Kuo

Associate Professor of Ophthalmology

### Joseph Yuan-Chieh Lo

Professor in Radiology

### Ehsan Samei

Reed and Martha Rice Distinguished Professor of Radiology

### Guillermo Sapiro

James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Image and video processing, computer vision, computer
graphics, computational vision, biomedical imaging, brain imaging, cryo-
tomography of viruses, computational tools in cryo-tomography, computational
tools in early diagnosis of psychiatric disorders, differential geometry and…

### William Paul Segars

Associate Professor in Radiology

### Allen W Song

Professor in Radiology

### Martin Paul Tornai

Associate Professor of Radiology

### Cynthia Ann Toth

Joseph A.C. Wadsworth Distinguished Professor of Ophthalmology

### Michael Rod Zalutsky

Jonathan Spicehandler, M.D. Distinguished Professor of Neuro Oncology, in the
School of Medicine

## Research Faculty

### Cameron R. Bass

Associate Research Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Biomechanics of blast, blunt and ballistic trauma and
pediatric trauma. His research focuses on injury risk from microscale to
macroscale for the head, neck, thorax and extremities.

### Al-Hafeez Z Dhalla

Assistant Research Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Biomedical optics, especially optical coherence
tomography, scanning laser ophthalmoscopy and LiDAR, applied to the diagnostic
imaging, image guided surgery and robotic microsurgery.

## Faculty Emeritus

### Stephen William Smith

Professor Emeritus of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Development and evaluation of improved medical ultrasound
image quality for applications in cardiology, radiology and obstetrics.
Advances in image quality result from improvements in the spatial resolution
and signal-to-noise ratio of diagnostic ultrasound scanners through…

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

