Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Biomaterials

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Research

Duke BME is home to a diverse and longstanding research community focusing on
the area of biomaterials, the discipline of studying and designing non-living
materials and devices that interface with physiological systems.

Ongoing interests include the molecular design of soft materials,
nanomaterials, immune-active materials, scaffolds for tissue engineering, and
basic investigations into the complex mechanisms by which materials engage
biology.

Research in the broad field of Biomaterials has led to the development of an
incredible range of implantable biomedical devices over the past several
decades, and it continues to be central to the introduction of new medical
therapies ranging from engineered tissues to delivery vehicles for genes and
drugs, to immune therapies.

The biomaterials research community at Duke is supported and enhanced by
numerous centers and programs, including the Research Triangle NSF Materials
Research Science and Engineering Center (RT-MRSEC) and the Center for
Biomolecular and Tissue Engineering (CBTE).

## A Decade of Trailblazing

Explore highlights of Duke BME scholarship in our 2008-2018 Nature Reprint
Collection »

## Primary Faculty

### Ashutosh Chilkoti

Alan L. Kaganov Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Focused on biomolecular materials and biointerface science
and emphasizes the development of applications that span the range from
bioseparations, biosensors, biomaterials, and targeted drug delivery.

### Joel Collier

Theodore Kennedy Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: The design of biomaterials for a range of biomedical
applications, with a focus on understanding and controlling adaptive immune
responses. Most materials investigated are created from molecular assemblies-
proteins, peptides or bioconjugates that self-organize into useful…

### Sharon Gerecht

Paul M. Gross Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: stem cells, biomaterials, hypoxia, blood vessels, physics
of cancer, regenerative medicine

### Charles Gersbach

John W. Strohbehn Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Gene therapy, genomics and epigenomics, biomolecular and
cellular engineering, regenerative medicine, and synthetic biology.

### Brenton D. Hoffman

James L. and Elizabeth M. Vincent Associate Professor of Biomedical
Engineering

Research Interests: Focused on understanding, on a molecular level, how
mechanical and chemical cues from the environment are detected, integrated,
and manipulated by cells to dictate physiological and patho-physiological
responses important in vascular biology.

### David F. Katz

Nello L. Teer, Jr. Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering, in the
Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School of Engineering

Research Interests: Methods for prophylaxis against STD's, emphasizing topical
microbicides and contraception; biofluid mechanics; rheology and transport
phenomena; biophysical aspects of mammalian sperm motility, sperm transport,
and fertilization; and biomechanical functioning of the vitreous of…

### Samira Musah

Assistant Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPS cells), disease
mechanisms, regenerative medicine, molecular and cellular basis of human
kidney development and disease, organ engineering, patient-specific disease
models, biomarkers, therapeutic discovery, tissue and organ transplantation,…

### Daniel Reker

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Integration of active machine learning, biomedical data
science, and biochemical experiments for the analysis and design of
personalized therapeutic opportunities.

### Michael Rubinstein

Professor of Biomedical Engineering, and Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science

Research Interests: Polymer theory and computer simulations

### Tatiana Segura

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: The design of biomaterials to promote endogenous repair
and reducing inflammation through the design of the geometry of the material,
and delivering genes, proteins and drugs.

### Shyni Varghese

Professor of Biomedical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering & Materials
Science and Orthopaedics

Research Interests: Musculoskeletal tissue repair, disease biophysics and
organ-on-a-chip technology

### Tuan Vo-Dinh

R. Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Distinguished Professor of Biomedical
Engineering

Research Interests: Biophotonics, laser-excited luminescence spectroscopy,
room temperature phosphorimetry, synchronous luminescence spectroscopy,
surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy, field environmental instrumentation,
fiberoptics sensors, nanosensors, biosensors and biochips for the protection…

### Lingchong You

James L. Meriam Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Quantitative biology, synthetic biology, machine learning,
antibiotic resistance, microbiome

## Secondary Faculty

### Gaurav Arya

Professor in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering and
Materials Science

Research Interests: Molecular modeling, molecular simulations, statistical
mechanics, coarse-graining, machine learning, polymer and colloidal physics,
polymer-nanoparticle composites, chromatin biophysics, DNA nanotechnology,
viral DNA packaging, single-molecule force spectroscopy, nanoscale…

## Research Faculty

### Cameron R. Bass

Associate Research Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Biomechanics of blast, blunt and ballistic trauma and
pediatric trauma. His research focuses on injury risk from microscale to
macroscale for the head, neck, thorax and extremities.

## Adjunct Faculty

### Jennifer L West

Fitzpatrick Family University Distinguished Professor of Engineering

Research Interests: Biomaterials, nanotechnology and tissue engineering that
involves the synthesis, development, and application of novel biofunctional
materials, and the use of biomaterials and engineering approaches to study
biological problems.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

