Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Biosensors and Bioinstrumentation

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Research

Research in the fields of biosensors and bioinstrumentation utilizes recent
advances in biochemistry, electronics, omics (genomics, epigenetics,
proteomics), and physiology to develop novel diagnostic, therapeutic, and
prosthetic devices.

Duke biosensor researchers engineer macro- and nano-scale devices that utilize
biological components, such as antibodies or enzymes, to detect and quantify
minute amounts of chemicals or investigate biological process in diverse
systems and environments.

Duke bioinstrumentation researchers create and disseminate diverse health care
technologies and know-how around the world, especially focusing on the
developing world. The biosensors and bioinstrumentation research communities
at Duke are supported and enhanced by the Fitzpatrick Institute for Photonics
and the Duke Global Health Institute.

## A Decade of Trailblazing

Explore highlights of Duke BME scholarship in our 2008-2018 Nature Reprint
Collection »

## Department Chair

### Joseph A. Izatt

Michael J. Fitzpatrick Distinguished Professor of Engineering

Research Interests: Biomedical optics and spectroscopy, coherence-based
imaging and microscopy, novel instrumentation for minimally invasive medical
diagnostics, and real-time image-guided robotic microsurgery.

## Primary Faculty

### Ashutosh Chilkoti

Alan L. Kaganov Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Focused on biomolecular materials and biointerface science
and emphasizes the development of applications that span the range from
bioseparations, biosensors, biomaterials, and targeted drug delivery.

### Emma Chory

Assistant Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering, starting
August 2023

Research Interests: Directed Evolution, therapeutic discovery, epigenetics and
genomics, High-throughput automation, synthetic biology, protein engineering

### Yiyang Gong

Assistant Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Recording and understanding brain activity by developing
novel combinations of optical microscopy and genetically encoded sensors.
Using these technologies, we wish to dissect neural circuit function and
investigate how neural activity drives complex behaviors.

### Joseph A. Izatt

Michael J. Fitzpatrick Distinguished Professor of Engineering

Research Interests: Biomedical optics and spectroscopy, coherence-based
imaging and microscopy, novel instrumentation for minimally invasive medical
diagnostics, and real-time image-guided robotic microsurgery.

### Mark L. Palmeri

Professor of the Practice in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Ultrasonic imaging, specifically using acoustic radiation
force to characterize the mechanical properties of tissue, and finite element
analysis of soft tissue response to impulsive radiation force excitation.
Other research interests include ultrasonic bioeffects and mechanical…

### Jonathan Viventi

Assistant Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Using flexible electronics to create new technology for
interfacing with the brain at high resolution over large areas. These new
tools can help diagnose and treat neurological disorders such as epilepsy, and
help improve the performance of brain machine interfaces.

### Tuan Vo-Dinh

R. Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Distinguished Professor of Biomedical
Engineering

Research Interests: Biophotonics, laser-excited luminescence spectroscopy,
room temperature phosphorimetry, synchronous luminescence spectroscopy,
surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy, field environmental instrumentation,
fiberoptics sensors, nanosensors, biosensors and biochips for the protection…

### Adam P. Wax

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Optical spectroscopy for early cancer detection, novel
microscopy and interferometry techniques.

### Patrick D. Wolf

Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Advanced instrumentation for diagnosis and treatment of
electrophysiological problems. This research covers two primary organ systems:
the heart and the brain. In the heart, Dr. Wolf is developing an image guided
ablation system for treatment of arrhythmias. In the brain, he is…

### Junjie Yao

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Photoacoustic tomography (PAT) technologies, and
translating PAT advances into diagnostic and therapeutic applications,
especially in functional brain imaging and early cancer theranostics.

## Secondary Faculty

### Tony Jun Huang

William Bevan Distinguished Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science

Research Interests: Acoustofluidics, microfluidics, lab-on-a-chip, biomedical
micro-electro-mechanical systems (BioMEMS), optofluidics, plasmofluidics.

### Anthony Nanlin Kuo

Associate Professor of Ophthalmology

## Research Faculty

### Cameron R. Bass

Associate Research Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Biomechanics of blast, blunt and ballistic trauma and
pediatric trauma. His research focuses on injury risk from microscale to
macroscale for the head, neck, thorax and extremities.

### Bruce Klitzman

Associate Research Professor of Biomedical Engineering

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

