Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Computational Modeling of Biological Systems

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Research

Researchers within the Duke BME community focus on the study and advancement
of computational methods and data analysis techniques to understand biological
phenomena.

This quantitative research uses modeling and simulation, high-performance
computing, and large-scale data analysis to create testable hypotheses about
mechanisms driving complex biological function.

At Duke, this research spans many application areas including
electrophysiology, patient-specific hemodynamics, cellular mechanisms, gene
circuits, and synthetic biology. Researchers in this area are broadly
interactive with departments throughout the university, including clinical
departments of the Duke University School of Medicine, the 'big data'
Information Initiative at Duke (iiD), the Duke Cancer Institute, and the
academic departments of Computer Science and Mechanical Engineering and
Materials Science.

## A Decade of Trailblazing

Explore highlights of Duke BME scholarship in our 2008-2018 Nature Reprint
Collection »

## Primary Faculty

### Roger C. Barr

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Bioelectricity and biomedical computing.

### Pranam D. Chatterjee

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Integration of computational and experimental
methodologies to design novel proteins for applications in genome editing,
targeted protein modulation, and reproductive bioengineering

### Emma Chory

Assistant Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering, starting
August 2023

Research Interests: Directed Evolution, therapeutic discovery, epigenetics and
genomics, High-throughput automation, synthetic biology, protein engineering

### Jessilyn Dunn

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Use of large-scale biomedical datasets to model and guide
personalized therapies.

### Timothy Dunn

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Machine learning, computer vision, neurobiology, animal
behavior, computational neuroscience, prognostic modeling, traumatic brain
injury

### Yiyang Gong

Assistant Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Recording and understanding brain activity by developing
novel combinations of optical microscopy and genetically encoded sensors.
Using these technologies, we wish to dissect neural circuit function and
investigate how neural activity drives complex behaviors.

### Warren M. Grill

Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Neural engineering and neural prostheses and include
design and testing of electrodes and stimulation techniques, the electrical
properties of tissues and cells, and computational neuroscience with
applications in restoration of bladder function, treatment of movement
disorders…

### Craig S. Henriquez

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Large-scale computing, heart modeling, and brain modeling.

### David F. Katz

Nello L. Teer, Jr. Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering, in the
Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School of Engineering

Research Interests: Methods for prophylaxis against STD's, emphasizing topical
microbicides and contraception; biofluid mechanics; rheology and transport
phenomena; biophysical aspects of mammalian sperm motility, sperm transport,
and fertilization; and biomechanical functioning of the vitreous of…

### Michael D Lynch

Associate Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Focused on genetically engineering microbes to shut off
their growth circuits and turn on new pathways to produce different
compounds—improving production of biofuels, pharmacological molecules and
industrial chemicals.

### Amanda Randles

Alfred Winborne and Victoria Stover Mordecai Assistant Professor of Biomedical
Sciences

Research Interests: Biomedical simulation and high-performance computing

### Daniel Reker

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Integration of active machine learning, biomedical data
science, and biochemical experiments for the analysis and design of
personalized therapeutic opportunities.

### George A. Truskey

R. Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Distinguished Professor of Biomedical
Engineering

Research Interests: Cardiovascular tissue engineering, mechanisms of
atherogenesis, cell adhesion, and cell biomechanics.

### Lingchong You

James L. Meriam Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Quantitative biology, synthetic biology, machine learning,
antibiotic resistance, microbiome

## Research Faculty

### Cameron R. Bass

Associate Research Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Biomechanics of blast, blunt and ballistic trauma and
pediatric trauma. His research focuses on injury risk from microscale to
macroscale for the head, neck, thorax and extremities.

## Faculty Emeritus

### Wanda Krassowska Neu

Professor Emeritus of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Electroporation-mediated drug delivery and gene therapy;
Control of cardiac arrhythmias using nonlinear dynamics

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

