Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Drug and Gene Delivery

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Research

The field of drug and gene delivery involves development and delivery of
drugs, genes, and gene products that ultimately alter protein expression and
function of the cells, tissues, and living organisms.

Important areas in this growing field include development of delivery vehicles
such as plasmids, nanoparticles, viruses, liposomes, peptide/protein
complexes, and biomaterial scaffolds, as well as studies of drug and gene
transport, delivery strategies, delivery barriers, and immune response to
delivery.

Duke BME is actively involved in understanding and developing new strategies
for drug and gene delivery aimed at therapies for cancer, infectious and
cardiovascular disease, muscle disease, gastrointestinal disease, and others.

Close collaborations with Duke University School of Medicine faculty and
support from the Center for Biomolecular and Tissue Engineering (CBTE) are
important contributors to the successful endeavors of this research community.

## A Decade of Trailblazing

Explore highlights of Duke BME scholarship in our 2008-2018 Nature Reprint
Collection »

## Primary Faculty

### Pranam D. Chatterjee

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Integration of computational and experimental
methodologies to design novel proteins for applications in genome editing,
targeted protein modulation, and reproductive bioengineering

### Ashutosh Chilkoti

Alan L. Kaganov Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Focused on biomolecular materials and biointerface science
and emphasizes the development of applications that span the range from
bioseparations, biosensors, biomaterials, and targeted drug delivery.

### Emma Chory

Assistant Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering, starting
August 2023

Research Interests: Directed Evolution, therapeutic discovery, epigenetics and
genomics, High-throughput automation, synthetic biology, protein engineering

### Charles Gersbach

John W. Strohbehn Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Gene therapy, genomics and epigenomics, biomolecular and
cellular engineering, regenerative medicine, and synthetic biology.

### David F. Katz

Nello L. Teer, Jr. Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering, in the
Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School of Engineering

Research Interests: Methods for prophylaxis against STD's, emphasizing topical
microbicides and contraception; biofluid mechanics; rheology and transport
phenomena; biophysical aspects of mammalian sperm motility, sperm transport,
and fertilization; and biomechanical functioning of the vitreous of…

### Cameron M Kim

Assistant Professor of the Practice in the Department of Biomedical
Engineering

### Michael D Lynch

Associate Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Focused on genetically engineering microbes to shut off
their growth circuits and turn on new pathways to produce different
compounds—improving production of biofuels, pharmacological molecules and
industrial chemicals.

### Daniel Reker

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Integration of active machine learning, biomedical data
science, and biochemical experiments for the analysis and design of
personalized therapeutic opportunities.

### Tatiana Segura

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: The design of biomaterials to promote endogenous repair
and reducing inflammation through the design of the geometry of the material,
and delivering genes, proteins and drugs.

### Michael Raphael Tadross

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Our goal is to bridge the gap between the study of brain
as a computational device and the search for novel neuropathological
treatments. We develop technologies to manipulate molecules, cells, and
synapses in the brain, and deploy these reagents in mouse models of disease.

### Lingchong You

James L. Meriam Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Quantitative biology, synthetic biology, machine learning,
antibiotic resistance, microbiome

### Fan Yuan

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Principles and mechanisms of delivery for drugs, genes,
and vaccines; pharmacokinetics; electrotransfer or electroporation technology;
and tumor pathophysiology.

## Secondary Faculty

### Tony Jun Huang

William Bevan Distinguished Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science

Research Interests: Acoustofluidics, microfluidics, lab-on-a-chip, biomedical
micro-electro-mechanical systems (BioMEMS), optofluidics, plasmofluidics.

### Bruce Alan Sullenger

Joseph W. and Dorothy W. Beard Distinguished Professor of Experimental Surgery

## Faculty Emeritus

### Robert A. Malkin

Professor of Practice Emeritus in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Research and development of medical equipment in the
developing world.

### Wanda Krassowska Neu

Professor Emeritus of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Electroporation-mediated drug delivery and gene therapy;
Control of cardiac arrhythmias using nonlinear dynamics

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

