Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Immune Engineering

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Research

The immune system presents both complex hurdles and profound opportunities for
biomedical engineers. It must be dealt with when designing any new biomedical
device, biomaterial, or technology intended to be used within the human body,
and yet at the same time it is also a tremendous resource to engage and
exploit in developing new treatments for diseases ranging from cancer to
infectious diseases to tissue regeneration.

Duke BME is actively engaged in research aimed at understanding, controlling,
and exploiting the immune system to treat a range of diseases and conditions.

Work includes the design of novel vaccines and technologies for treating
wounds, chronic inflammation, cancer, and for tissue engineering. This
research is facilitated by a network of collaborators spanning Duke University
Medical Center clinical departments and the Duke University School of
Medicine's Department of Immunology.

## A Decade of Trailblazing

Explore highlights of Duke BME scholarship in our 2008-2018 Nature Reprint
Collection »

## Primary Faculty

### Emma Chory

Assistant Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering, starting
August 2023

Research Interests: Directed Evolution, therapeutic discovery, epigenetics and
genomics, High-throughput automation, synthetic biology, protein engineering

### Joel Collier

Theodore Kennedy Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: The design of biomaterials for a range of biomedical
applications, with a focus on understanding and controlling adaptive immune
responses. Most materials investigated are created from molecular assemblies-
proteins, peptides or bioconjugates that self-organize into useful…

### Charles Gersbach

John W. Strohbehn Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Gene therapy, genomics and epigenomics, biomolecular and
cellular engineering, regenerative medicine, and synthetic biology.

### Tuan Vo-Dinh

R. Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Distinguished Professor of Biomedical
Engineering

Research Interests: Biophotonics, laser-excited luminescence spectroscopy,
room temperature phosphorimetry, synchronous luminescence spectroscopy,
surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy, field environmental instrumentation,
fiberoptics sensors, nanosensors, biosensors and biochips for the protection…

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

