Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Neural Engineering

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Research

Neural engineering research at Duke focuses upon developing new tools and
methods to enable fundamental research on the nervous system, as well as
treatments for neurological disorders. Specifically, we conduct research on
novel neural technologies that can interact with the brain on a much finer
scale and with greater coverage than previously possible, using both
electrical and optical measurements.

Research in neural engineering has strengths in the development of novel
neural technologies such as brain machine interfaces, neural prostheses and
implantable devices for the treatment of neurological disorders. In addition,
system-level computational modeling and imaging techniques provide key
insights into the function of the nervous system in both health and disease.

Current research activity includes deep brain stimulation for the treatment of
motor disorders, electrical stimulation for the restoration of bladder
function, and electrical stimulation for restoration of multi-joint motor
function (e.g., reaching). We develop novel electrode arrays that can record
and stimulate large areas of the surface of the brain and high resolution,
data acquisition systems to wirelessly interface these devices with remote
systems, and genetically encoded sensors to record and stimulate the brain
using light. These tools and others are applied to understand how large
populations of neurons can efficiently communicate information and how
communication pathways can be dynamically re-configured. This work is
conducted in the context of spatial and emotional memory and decision making
and is aimed at the treatment of learning deficits and memory disorders.

Neural engineering research at Duke involves a variety of in vitro, in vivo
and computational modeling techniques that bridge knowledge of the detailed
biophysical mechanisms of single neurons with the study of their activity at
the population level. Researchers in neural engineering have extensive
collaborations with the Duke Institute for Brain Sciences, the Center for
Cognitive Neuroscience, and the Duke University School of Medicine departments
of Neurology, Neurosurgery and Radiology, and the interdepartmental program in
Neurobiology.

## A Decade of Trailblazing

Explore highlights of Duke BME scholarship in our 2008-2018 Nature Reprint
Collection »

## Primary Faculty

### Roger C. Barr

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Bioelectricity and biomedical computing.

### Timothy Dunn

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Machine learning, computer vision, neurobiology, animal
behavior, computational neuroscience, prognostic modeling, traumatic brain
injury

### Yiyang Gong

Assistant Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Recording and understanding brain activity by developing
novel combinations of optical microscopy and genetically encoded sensors.
Using these technologies, we wish to dissect neural circuit function and
investigate how neural activity drives complex behaviors.

### Warren M. Grill

Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Neural engineering and neural prostheses and include
design and testing of electrodes and stimulation techniques, the electrical
properties of tissues and cells, and computational neuroscience with
applications in restoration of bladder function, treatment of movement
disorders…

### Craig S. Henriquez

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Large-scale computing, heart modeling, and brain modeling.

### Marc A. Sommer

Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Neuronal circuits of the brain, including recording from
single neurons and studying the effects of inactivating or stimulating well-
defined brain areas. His goals are to understand how individual areas process
signals and how multiple areas interact to cause cognition and…

### Michael Raphael Tadross

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Our goal is to bridge the gap between the study of brain
as a computational device and the search for novel neuropathological
treatments. We develop technologies to manipulate molecules, cells, and
synapses in the brain, and deploy these reagents in mouse models of disease.

### Jonathan Viventi

Assistant Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Using flexible electronics to create new technology for
interfacing with the brain at high resolution over large areas. These new
tools can help diagnose and treat neurological disorders such as epilepsy, and
help improve the performance of brain machine interfaces.

### Patrick D. Wolf

Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Advanced instrumentation for diagnosis and treatment of
electrophysiological problems. This research covers two primary organ systems:
the heart and the brain. In the heart, Dr. Wolf is developing an image guided
ablation system for treatment of arrhythmias. In the brain, he is…

### Junjie Yao

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Photoacoustic tomography (PAT) technologies, and
translating PAT advances into diagnostic and therapeutic applications,
especially in functional brain imaging and early cancer theranostics.

## Secondary Faculty

### Greg D. Field

Adjunct Associate Professor of Neurobiology

## Faculty Emeritus

### Wanda Krassowska Neu

Professor Emeritus of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Electroporation-mediated drug delivery and gene therapy;
Control of cardiac arrhythmias using nonlinear dynamics

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

