Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Research

Research in tissue engineering and regenerative medicine seeks to replace or
regenerate diseased or damaged tissues, organs, and cells – a challenging
endeavor, but one that has tremendous potential for the practice of medicine.

Technologies under investigation range from biomaterial/cell constructs for
repairing various tissues and organs, to stem cell therapies, to immune
therapies. Our work in this area is highly multidisciplinary, combining
materials science, cell biology, clinical science, immunology, stem cell
biology, genome science, and others.

Accordingly, researchers in this area within Duke BME are broadly interactive
with departments throughout the university including Duke University Medical
Center clinical departments, the Duke University School of Medicine
departments of Cell Biology and Immunology, the Duke Department of Chemistry,
and others. This community is also supported by centers and programs such as
Regeneration Next and the Center for Biomolecular and Tissue Engineering
(CBTE).

## A Decade of Trailblazing

Explore highlights of Duke BME scholarship in our 2008-2018 Nature Reprint
Collection »

## Primary Faculty

### Nenad Bursac

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Embryonic and adult stem cell therapies for heart and
muscle disease; cardiac and skeletal muscle tissue engineering; cardiac
electrophysiology and arrhythmias; genetic modifications of stem and somatic
cells; micropatterning of proteins and hydrogels.

### Pranam D. Chatterjee

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Integration of computational and experimental
methodologies to design novel proteins for applications in genome editing,
targeted protein modulation, and reproductive bioengineering

### Joel Collier

Theodore Kennedy Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: The design of biomaterials for a range of biomedical
applications, with a focus on understanding and controlling adaptive immune
responses. Most materials investigated are created from molecular assemblies-
proteins, peptides or bioconjugates that self-organize into useful…

### Sharon Gerecht

Paul M. Gross Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: stem cells, biomaterials, hypoxia, blood vessels, physics
of cancer, regenerative medicine

### Charles Gersbach

John W. Strohbehn Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Gene therapy, genomics and epigenomics, biomolecular and
cellular engineering, regenerative medicine, and synthetic biology.

### Samira Musah

Assistant Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPS cells), disease
mechanisms, regenerative medicine, molecular and cellular basis of human
kidney development and disease, organ engineering, patient-specific disease
models, biomarkers, therapeutic discovery, tissue and organ transplantation,…

### Tatiana Segura

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: The design of biomaterials to promote endogenous repair
and reducing inflammation through the design of the geometry of the material,
and delivering genes, proteins and drugs.

### George A. Truskey

R. Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Distinguished Professor of Biomedical
Engineering

Research Interests: Cardiovascular tissue engineering, mechanisms of
atherogenesis, cell adhesion, and cell biomechanics.

### Shyni Varghese

Professor of Biomedical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering & Materials
Science and Orthopaedics

Research Interests: Musculoskeletal tissue repair, disease biophysics and
organ-on-a-chip technology

## Secondary Faculty

### Geoffrey Steven Ginsburg

Adjunct Professor in the Department of Medicine

### Cynthia Ann Toth

Joseph A.C. Wadsworth Distinguished Professor of Ophthalmology

### Stefan Zauscher

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Nano-mechanical and nano-tribological characterization
(elasticity, friction, adhesion) of materials including organic thin films;
self-assembled monolayers, polymeric gels, and cellulosics; Fabrication of
polymeric nanostructures by scanning probe lithography; Colloidal probe…

## Research Faculty

### Bruce Klitzman

Associate Research Professor of Biomedical Engineering

## Adjunct Faculty

### Jennifer L West

Fitzpatrick Family University Distinguished Professor of Engineering

Research Interests: Biomaterials, nanotechnology and tissue engineering that
involves the synthesis, development, and application of novel biofunctional
materials, and the use of biomaterials and engineering approaches to study
biological problems.

## Faculty Emeritus

### William M. Reichert

Professor Emeritus of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Biosensors, protein mediated cell adhesion, and wound
healing.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

