

Jump to navigation

  * Duke Engineering
  * Pratt School of Engineering
  * Institute for Enterprise Engineering

  * Directory
  * Industry
  * Alumni
  * News
  * Students
  * Contact

__

  * Why Duke?
  * On-Campus
    * Duke MEM On-Campus
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Course Descriptions
    * Flexible Degree Options
    * Student Services and Support
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Online
    * Duke MEM Online
    * Boeing-Learning Together
    * Curriculum
    * Elective Tracks
    * Residencies
    * Course Descriptions
    * Student Services and Support
    * Meet Our Alumni
    * Tuition and Financial Aid
  * Certificate
  * Apply
    * Apply to Duke
    * Application Requirements
  * The 5 Principles

__

# Required Internship

Gain valuable experience in industry

Our students complete an internship with a company **anywhere in the world**
and work on a well-defined project.

A final internship report and presentation must be submitted and the course
instructor must approve both before credit can be given for EGRMGMT 551. The
internship contributes six (6) credits of the 30 required.

Students are responsible for finding and establishing an internship—Duke
provides an experienced professional team to help you in your search.

Employed students may use their on-the-job experience. International students
may use Curricular Practical Training (CPT) to complete the internship, after
completing two semesters in F-1 visa status

### Typical Project Criteria

  * 8 weeks, or 320 hours
  * Guidance from a supervisor
  * Analysis and resolution of a problem or challenge
  * Observation of organizational communication processes
  * Receive ongoing feedback and an end-of-experience evaluation
  * Interaction with a variety of people in an organization

### Using Previous Work Experience

Students who are employed, or have been employed in an appropriate capacity
for at least three months after receiving their undergraduate degree, may use
a project from their job in lieu of an internship.

These students must enroll in **EGRMGMT 550** and **EGRMGMT 551**. Both the
written report and oral presentation are required.

### Required Courses

#### EGRMGMT 550: Engineering Management Internship

A three-credit internship that requires participation with a cooperating
organization, whether local or distant, involving a well-defined set of tasks.
Full-time employment in an appropriate capacity may be utilized for this
internship. This course must be completed prior to or simultaneously with
EGRMGMT 551. 3 credits. Staff (Spring, Summer, and Fall Semesters)

#### EGRMGMT 551: Engineering Management Internship Assessment

This course involves the assessment of a student's internship experience via a
report and oral presentation. The instructor will provide the questions and
general format of the report and presentation. The instructor will evaluate
the report and presentation, and both must be approved to obtain credit for
this course. Students must have completed or had been simultaneously enrolled
in EGRMGMT 550. That course is designated for the internship experience. 3
credits. Staff (Spring, Summer, and Fall semesters)

### Selected Previous Participating Companies

  * Airbus
  * Amazon
  * AMD
  * ArcelorMittal
  * Bank of America
  * Bechtel
  * China Investment Corp.
  * Cisco Systems
  * Credit Agricole
  * Cummins
  * Duke University
  * U.S. Department of Energy
  * Embrex
  * Ernst & Young
  * Etisalat
  * Fisher-Rosemount
  * Ford Motor Company
  * Genentech
  * General Motors
  * HeBei Telecom Company
  * Hunt Oil Company
  * Petróleos Mexicanos
  * SAP
  * Singapore Airlines
  * Sonera SmartTrust
  * Steria
  * Stratum WLL
  * Taisei Corporation
  * USB Investment Bank
  * Ventas y Proyectos, SA

## On-Campus

  * Duke MEM On-Campus
  * Curriculum
    * Curriculum Overview
    * Seminar & Workshop Series
    * Required Internship
    * Consulting Practicum
  * Elective Tracks
  * Course Descriptions
  * Flexible Degree Options
  * Student Services and Support
  * Career Outcomes
  * Meet Our Alumni
  * Tuition and Financial Aid

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

  * __Main Menu
    * __Why Duke?
    *  __On-Campus
      *  __Duke MEM On-Campus
      *  __Curriculum
        *  __Curriculum Overview
        *  __Seminar & Workshop Series
        *  __Required Internship
        *  __Consulting Practicum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Course Descriptions
      *  __Flexible Degree Options
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Career Outcomes
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
        *  __External Funding Opportunities
    *  __Online
      *  __Duke MEM Online
      *  __Boeing-Learning Together
      *  __Curriculum
      *  __Elective Tracks
      *  __Residencies
      *  __Course Descriptions
        *  __Previous Courses
      *  __Student Services and Support
      *  __Meet Our Alumni
      *  __Tuition and Financial Aid
    *  __Certificate
    *  __Apply
      *  __Apply to Duke
      *  __Application Requirements
    *  __The 5 Principles
  * __Quick Links
    * __Directory
    *  __Industry
    *  __Alumni
    *  __News
    *  __Students
    *  __Contact

    * 

