

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » Campus & Tours

# Facilities

The Pratt School of Engineering occupies nearly 400,000 net square feet in 18
buildings on and near the Duke campus

## Buildings

### Fitzpatrick Center

By design, the 322,000-square-foot Fitzpatrick Center for Interdisciplinary
Engineering, Medicine and Allied Sciences (FCIEMAS) is a place that encourages
creative interaction.

Highlights include a nanotechnology research and imaging facility (dubbed
SMiF), the Fitzpatrick Institute for Photonics, extensive wet-bench
laboratories, teaching labs, Twinnie's café, and the 206-seat Kenneth T.
Schiciano Auditorium.

It is also home to the headquarters of the Department of Biomedical
Engineering. The center is named in honor of philanthropists **Michael J.
Fitzpatrick E'70** and **Patricia W. Fitzpatrick W'69**.

  * More about the Fitzpatrick Center
  * Fitzpatrick floor plan »

### Hudson Hall

Elegant red-brick Hudson Hall, which opened in 1948, was for many years known
as "Old Red."

Greatly expanded with modern annexes twice, the building was named in 1992 to
honor **Fitzgerald S. "Jerry" Hudson, E'46**.

It is home to offices, laboratories and classrooms—including the **James L.
Vincent Lecture Hall** , a modern active learning space.

Hudson is also home to the headquarters of three academic departments: Civil &
Environmental Engineering, Electrical & Computer Engineering, and Mechanical
Engineering & Materials Science.

  * Hudson Hall & Annex floor plan »

### Nello L. Teer Engineering Building

Opened in 1984, the Teer Building is the Pratt School of Engineering's
administrative headquarters.

It houses the offices of the Vinik Dean of Engineering, the Undergraduate
Student Services Center, Graduate Central Services Center (in the Vesic
Student Learning Center) and Pratt IT Help Desk. Building features include a
student lounge, two large lecture halls and a 50-seat classroom.

The building's name honors builder and philanthropist **Nello Leguy Teer**.

  * Teer floor plan »

### Wilkinson Building

When it opened for classes in January 2021, the Wilkinson Building
dramatically expanded the education and research space of the Pratt School of
Engineering.

Interdisciplinary in form and function, the building is strategically sited
off Research Drive at the nexus of Duke's medicine and engineering campuses

The building's name recognizes the lifetime philanthropic and service
contributions of **Beverly A. and Jerry C. Wilkinson BSEE'67** and their
family.

  * Take a virtual tour »
  * Wilkinson floor plan»

## Specialized Research Facilities

### Shared Materials Instrumentation Facility (SMiF)

The Shared Materials Instrumentation Facility (SMiF) provides researchers with
high-quality and cost-effective access to instruments to fabricate,
characterize and image at the nano-scale.

The facility is available to Duke researchers and to external university,
government and industry users.

  * First floor of the Fitzpatrick Center
  * Class 1000 and Class 100 cleanrooms
  * Characterization labs for electron microscopy, atomic force microscopy,
    optical characterization and X-ray analysis

More about SMIF »

### Duke Robotics

The collaborative workspace for Duke Robotics in the North Building gives Duke
Engineering's multidisciplinary robotics faculty room to thrive.

The space includes simulation and robotics platforms, two experiment rooms for
private human-in-the-loop experiments, a centrally-located observation room
with space for researchers to oversee experiments, and large, open lab space
for experiments and demonstrations.

Adjacent office space includes faculty offices, two large graduate student
rooms, an office for postdoctoral associates, and a conference room.

  * More about Duke Robotics »

## Experiential Learning Spaces

### Duke Engineering Design Pod

The Design Pod is a 5,000-square-foot learning lab integral to Duke
Engineering's signature undergraduate experience. Located in the Jinny and Ed
Pratt Commons at the Levine Science Research Center (LSRC), the space includes
a flexible work and design area and an array of hand, power and rapid
prototyping tools.

It is home to the Pratt School of Engineering's first-year design course. In
their first semester of college, students engage to discover solutions to
authentic design problems posed by community clients—creating plans, models
and prototypes along the way.

  * Duke First-Year Design »

### The Foundry

The Foundry is a 7,600-square-foot student-focused, project-centered,
collaborative maker space in Gross Hall where students build ideas from the
ground up. It is home to sections of our first-year design course and provides
a home base for student teams, clubs and startups. Users have access to a
variety of hand and power tools and to the latest rapid-prototyping
machines—including a 3D Systems ProX DMP320 direct metal printing machine.

  * Explore The Foundry »

### Duke Smart Home

The Duke Smart Home is a 6,000 square foot live-in research laboratory
operated by Duke Engineering near the Duke campus. It is a dynamic "living
laboratory" environment that contributes to the innovation of residential
building technology.

The Duke Smart Home Program encompasses formal research and design courses for
credit, a thriving student club that creates new technology for applications
across campus, and 10 residents of the smart home dorm who serve as
ambassadors during tours and programs. The program and dorm are available to
Duke students from all disciplines and majors.

  * More about the Smart Home »

### Pratt Student Shop

Duke Engineering students have access to a modern machine shop to complete
course work that requires the use of machine tools such as milling machines,
lathes, drill presses, table saws, benders, welders and laser cutters. The
shop is overseen by an experienced professional staff who teach the mandatory
shop safety course. The shop is located in the Telcom Building, off Research
Drive.

  * More about the Pratt Student Shop »

## Building for the Future of Duke

Opened for classes in January 2021, the Wilkinson Building is a transformative
space to advance engineering education and research at Duke.

Explore giving opportunities

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

