Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Jeffrey B. Taub Environmental Engineering Graduate Student Award

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. About
  3. Awards & Honors

Jeffrey Taub is second from the left in the back row.

Presented annually to a student who best exhibits Jeffrey Taub's maturity of
thought and independence, and who best integrates past training with the
environmental engineering profession

The names of recipients of this award are inscribed on a plaque displayed in
Hudson Hall.

About Jeff Taub »

* * *

## Recipients

  * **2021:** Alexander McCumber
  * **2020:** Alexander McCumber
  * **2019:** Savannah Volkoff
  * **2018:** Natalia Neal-Walthall
  * **2017:** Courtney Gardner
  * **2016:** Carley Gwin
  * **2015:** Tiffany Wilson
  * **2014:** Lauren Lowman
  * **2013:** Lauren Barton
  * **2012:** Jeff Farner-Budarz
  * **2011:** Jeff Farner-Budarz
  * **2010:** David Jassby
  * **2009:** Andreas Gondikas
  * **2008:** Zachary Hendren
  * **2007:** Christine Robichaud
  * **2006:** Ellen M. Cooper
  * **2005:** Erik J. Rosenfeldt
  * **2004:** Hadas Mamane-Gravetz
  * **2003:** Ki Don Cho
  * **2001:** Baneeta Sabherwal
  * **2000:** Ross M. Tabachow
  * **1999:** Daniel A. Vallero
  * **1998:** Jennifer M. Armstrong
  * **1997:** James M. Sperry
  * **1996:** Banu Ormeci
  * **1995:** Selim Sanin
  * **1994:** Aysen Ucuncu Erdingler
  * **1993:** Dilek F. Sanin
  * **1992:** Zhenhua Jiang
  * **1991:** Laura J. Steinberg
  * **1990:** Laura J. Steinberg
  * **1989:** Laura J. Steinberg
  * **1988:** Karen Ann Streich
  * **1987:** Brian Wilson Baetz
  * **1986:** Tomas Alan Peel
  * **1985:** Georgeann Morekas
  * **1984:** Richard I. Stessel
  * **1983 (award established):** Janet Baker

* * *

## About Jeff Taub

Jeffrey B. Taub will always be remembered at Duke for his maturity of thought,
his independence, and his ability to successfully integrate past training with
the environmental engineering profession.

He arrived at Duke in June 1980, changing careers from prominent high school
physics teacher in New York State to environmental engineer. Jeff extended his
knowledge of engineering in general and environmental engineering in
particular by rigorous courses and by dedicating himself to his research.

> His research efforts at Duke were rewarded, and his work widely published

With maturity and independence, he applied himself to the development of his
new career. His efforts were rewarded and the results of his work at Duke are
widely published.

"Hazardous Waste Generated by the Academic Departments of Duke University"
(January 1981), was a report prepared by Jeff which successfully assisted Duke
in addressing this monumental problem. "Instabilization in the Air
Classification of Fuels," _Journal of the Energy Engineering Division of the
American Society of Engineers_ (June 1983), made a major contribution to the
theory and application of air classification. "Instabilities in Air
Classification of Refuse Derived Fuel," _Fourth Symposium and Biotechnology in
Energy Production and Conservation by Oak Ridge National Laboratories_ (May
1982), added to the understanding of the problems while producing needed
energy. "Regional Alternatives for Solid Waste Disposal and Resource Recovery
in Raleigh, Durham and Chapel Hill," was a report prepared by Jeff which
received regional and statewide attention.

He also valued other parts of his life, his fellow graduate students in
general and one friend in particular. Each year, Jeff led the environmental
engineering graduate students and (some) faculty into battles on the soccer
and softball fields. Rumor has it that Nancy Wittenberg, a fellow graduate
student at the time, was so impressed with Jeff's ability to play third base
that she subsequently agreed to his proposal of marriage.

Jeff died in an automobile accident en route to a hazardous waste managed
facility while working for the New Jersey Environmental Protection Agency.
Jeff and Nancy missed the opportunity of marriage by several weeks. Jeff will
always be remembered at Duke through the Jeffrey B. Taub Environmental
Engineering Graduate Student Award.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

