

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2017

# A 3D Manufacturing Revolution: From Dreams to Reality

May 12, 2017

Duke Engineering becomes one of the first places in the nation to host a new
production 3D titanium metal printer

Design plays a vital part in engineering solutions to today's problems, but a
major obstacle facing this trade is converting a design into a complex,
functional product in the most time- and cost-effective way possible.
Beginning 30 years ago with the first item to ever be 3D printed by Chuck
Hull, father of 3D printing and co-founder of 3D Systems, additive
manufacturing has soared into the market, revolutionizing the healthcare
industry in orthopedic and spinal applications. Several new products with
unique features and functionalities are being introduced worldwide thanks to
the freedom of design enabled by advances in 3D printing technology. Now, Duke
has become a major player in this innovative movement, having acquired the
ProX DMP 320, 3D Systems' state-of-the art metal production printer.

Located in The Foundry makerspace under Gross Hall, the ProX DMP 320 metal
printer has 1000 in3 (10"x10"x10") of workspace for transforming one's
imagination into reality. According to Gautam Gupta, vice president of
healthcare applications for 3D Systems, the printer uses "pure metal powder
(e.g. titanium alloy) and a high-energy source that melts and consolidates the
metal into a final shape," enabling small, complex designs to be produced with
high quality and functionality.

A powerful program used by the ProX DMP 320 is 3D Xpert, which, according to
Gupta, "combines the experience, expertise, and knowledge of 3D printing into
a simple tool that optimizes the build parameters, including the orientation
of the design, and minimizes the amount of support structures needed to make
the part." Users who are new to the technology can take advantage of this
software to optimize the functionality and design of the parts being produced.

Gupta discussed the significance of the ProX DMP 320 printer and how,
originally, 3D printing was primarily used as a prototyping tool to analyze
design structures, which would then be produced using traditional
manufacturing methods.Today, 3D printing has transitioned from a prototyping
technology to a full production process by combining multiple manufacturing
methods into one machine. A final product can be made straight from the
design.

"This gives limitless freedom for any designer to innovate without
compromising on the limitations of traditional manufacturing processes," said
Gupta. This powerful tool, the ProX DMP 320, is unleashing innovation in
design and generating a lot of excitement in the industry.

Ken Gall, professor and chair of mechanical engineering and material science,
who headed the project of acquiring the printer, commented on the projects
Duke is working toward now that the ProX DMP 320 is finishing its final stages
of installation. Some examples from Professor Gall's mentoring of current
senior design groups include "printing scaffolds for large bone defects
specific to each patient, and building spinal fusion cages."

But this printer does not only hold promise for orthopedic engineering. "It is
something for the entire Duke community, for all students and faculty in all
fields of study, to utilize in designing their next breakthrough," said
Professor Gall.

Professor Gall plans on setting up a print week where people can queue their
designsinto the printer and pay for the material costs, where titanium, being
the only material, is $100/lb. And, with the printer's recycling ability,
which takes unused titanium powder and sifts the material back into the
machine after a print, all users will only pay for the weight of the items
they make. This process makes it relatively cheap and time-effective to
produce vital, complex parts—if people heed Gall's advice.

"Only small, complex designs utilize the full capacity of the printer,"
explained Professor Gall. "Larger, less complicated designs can be printed but
are often cheaper and faster to produce using conventional machining methods."

There are still hurdles in integrating this metal 3D printer into a community
of solution-seeking students and professors. With only one 3D metal printer,
availability may become a limitation, especially since the 3D Xpert software
is currently on only one desktop. Chip Bobbert, media & emerging technologies
engineer and father of Duke's Innovation Co-Lab Studio, offers a streamlined
process where the entire Duke community can conduct heavy prototyping for
their design in the Technology Engagement Center (TEC) located in the
Telecommunications building. This "engineering sandbox" houses over 60 3D
printers of varying materials and sizes. "The Innovation Co-Lab is the perfect
place to start to refine and perfect ideas," said Professor Gall. "The metal
printer is the place to finish if you need a high-quality, high-strength
component."

Duke is a thrilling place to be. This university has been at the forefront of
breaking new barriers of change, and with adopting this technology that is
unleashing innovation, Duke is empowered with the tools to create some of the
most complex design systems. From the resources available to Duke's community
in the Co-Lab Studio, and now with the ProX DMP 320 printer, it is not a
question of what can be done at Duke, but a question of when Duke will dream,
design and produce the answers to our toughest problems.

**Samuel Lester is a first-year Pratt student in mechanical engineering.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2017

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

