

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2017

# Envisioning the Future of Robots

May 25, 2017

The Amazon Picking Challenge pits Pratt's finest against international
professionals and the demands of tomorrow's industrial needs

From exciting advancements in automated cars to attack drones, the field of
robotics has experienced tremendous growth and development in the past few
years, leaving little doubt about a future in which robots and humans will
share the road, sky and world. But as Kris Hauser, associate professor of
electrical and computer engineering, says, the robotics field should not be
overhyped. Even with the progress and innovation seen in recent years,
robotics still poses difficult problems that cannot be solved overnight.

At Duke, Professor Hauser teaches Pratt graduate and undergraduate students
how to chip away at large robotics problems in the course ECE 496: Advanced
Robotic Systems Design. Through the class, students explore the many types of
real-world challenges engineers will face building complex systems. In 2016,
the class was asked to design a robot to compete in the Amazon Picking
Challenge (APC).

As the largest online retailer in the world, Amazon has millions of items in
the warehouse that have to be packed and shipped by hand. With increasing
demand for online shopping, robots that can autonomously pick up the desired
items from the shelves have the potential to greatly improve efficiency in the
warehouse. The APC competition provides a unique venue for research teams all
around the world to propose solutions to this interesting and challenging
problem.

For the competition, Amazon used common household items to test the robots,
including soft clothing, boxed DVDs, bottles of water and a toothbrush. To
successfully pick up these diverse objects, the robots must first recognize
and locate the target objects. Next, a motion planning approach controls the
movement of robot arms to steadily pick up the items and put them in the right
place. Like the human brain, the autonomy of the robotic system is based on
perception and actions—recognizing the object, sending the signal from sensors
to the system and creating a control strategy, which results in the robot arm
grasping the object.

With these defined tasks and goals, the Amazon Picking Challenge created an
atmosphere that captured the fun and exciting nature of competition—as well as
its stresses. Last summer, thanks to support from Pratt and the Lord
Foundation, Duke sent three undergraduates and one PhD student from ECE 496 to
compete against 15 of the world’s top professional engineering teams and
schools in the second Amazon Picking Challenge competition in Leipzig,
Germany.

Duke’s team was prepared with a number of unique tricks up their sleeves, like
using scales to help recognize objects through weight as well as appearance,
which helped their perception system work flawlessly during the competition’s
stowing task. However, they still encountered intense challenges in Leipzig.

“We had a sensor completely fail about 30 minutes before the picking task in
the competition,” said Professor Hauser. “We had to very quickly change our
sensor while simultaneously debugging the software. Everyone was very
stressed, and we ended up not picking any objects.”

It wasn’t until after competing that Hauser’s team discovered the reason for
the failure: due to some last-minute hacking, a parameter for the vision
module was off by a single decimal point.

Even so, Duke’s team placed 8th overall—surpassing many other more experienced
and better-funded teams. Professor Hauser commented that for their level of
experience and resources, the team did very well: according to an analysis of
the 2015 Amazon Picking Challenge, most participants were graduate students,
post-docs or other professionals. No other team in 2016 was composed primarily
of undergraduate students. The fact that they were able to compete on an
international stage highlights the Pratt School of Engineering’s deep
commitment and investment in preparing and motivating students to solve real-
world problems.

It’s clear that robotic system design is demanding and interdisciplinary work,
requiring thorough mechanical design, sensor development and software coding
for perception, planning and grasping. “You need to have perception to find
objects,” said Professor Hauser. “You need to have decision-making about which
object to grasp. For some of the harder tasks, you’d have to rearrange the
shelves to pick up an object in the back. There are a lot of systems
integration challenges when trying to put together the system in a relatively
short amount of time, while making sure that every component is reliable.”

Working in large teams is another real-life challenge that engineers face, and
the students in ECE 490 learned how project management, goal-setting and
interpersonal communication are important for maintaining a smooth-running
team.

“As much as I lecture about these topics in class, they usually need to be
learned the hard way, and it’s better to fail in class than later on in the
workplace,” said Professor Hauser.

Beyond the competition, the Amazon Picking Challenge reflects recent trends in
the field of robotics, where techniques once seen only in academic
research—like object recognition, motion planning and grasp planning—are being
used in industrial applications. The process of designing and building robots
for the APC is already making significant contributions to the development of
autonomous warehouse robots.

There are many practical problems, however, still undergoing research. For
example, in Amazon’s warehouse, there are thousands of possible objects to
recognize rather than a few dozen, and they are packed five to ten times more
tightly than in the challenge. Humans are also many times faster than even the
robots from the top-placing teams. It is anyone’s guess as to whether these
challenges will be cracked in the next few years, or even the next few
decades.

That said, the robotics field is in strong need of experts from many areas,
including mechanical engineers, electrical engineers, computer programmers,
artificial intelligence specialists and more. The interdisciplinary nature of
the field can be difficult for students to navigate, but Professor Hauser has
some words of advice. “The ideal profile of a robotics engineer or student s
to have breadth in order to understand how to talk to people in different
fields, and also have one area of depth that they specialize in.”

**Guangshen Ma is a master’s student in mechanical engineering.**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2017

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

