

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2017

# MEDx: An Engine for Collaboration and Innovation

May 15, 2017

New initiative sparks and supports partnerships between Medicine + Engineering
at Duke

Duke University is well-known for its successes in research, innovation and
entrepreneurship. To further accelerate this already innovative and cross-
disciplinary environment, the School of Medicine and School of Engineering,
with support from the Provost's Office, recently teamed up to launch Duke
MEDx. The initiative supports joint research and education between faculty and
students in the two schools with the ultimate goal of finding new ways to
improve medical research and healthcare.

"Duke's heritage of collaboration between engineering scientists, medical
scientists and clinicians set a foundation for the creation and flourishing of
MEDx," says Geoffrey Ginsburg, director of the program and professor of
medicine and biomedical engineering. (Ken Gall, chair of Mechanical
Engineering & Materials Science, is MEDx's associate director.)

"The main idea behind MEDx was to let the investigative community come up with
great ideas at the intersection of medicine and engineering by bringing people
together to brainstorm within the colloquia and research opportunities that
MEDx has created."

Professor Ginsburg goes on to describe this initiative in terms of layers,
saying it involves "Layers of students interacting between life sciences and
engineering sciences. Layers of faculty interacting, [which] has created a
tremendously vibrant community. The stage is set for Duke to have an amazing
impact on this space. In a very short period of time, we have created a buzz."

MEDx's environment of innovation and creativity is fueled by collaboration and
team science, which the program supports by providing funding for new joint
research projects, educational opportunities for engineering and medical
students and trainees, and even "social engineering" lunches and a weekly MEDx
café to bring people together across the schools to discuss ideas.

Professor Ginsburg says, "We've become sort of a magnet. People come to MEDx
because they want to talk about their ideas. A lot of the traffic is from
students, and MEDx helps facilitate collaborative opportunities. We've already
had a significant catalytic function accelerating and augmenting programs that
have already existed."

This collaboration has certainly paid off, as Professor Ginsburg proudly gives
examples of MEDx projects working on important issues like improving or
creating systems involving pediatric blood filtration and early cancer
detection. And that's just to name a few.

"They're all great ideas," Professor Ginsburg says. "A good many of them will
make it to clinical use."

MEDx is already paving the way for further improvement in the world of
medicine and engineering. Seeing that MEDx is only one year old, Professor
Ginsburg has plans for its future, saying, "We will continue to foster
interactions between the engineering, clinical and scientific community and
the medical school through a number of social events, symposiums and workshops
to shine the light on the work that these great scientists and students are
doing."

Despite the clear objectives and path forward, many opportunities remain.

"Now can we go after something that may be bigger?" says Professor Ginsburg.
"Can we organize in a way that will really define Duke's unique attributes in
this space? As tools and technologies that are developed through the MEDx
program begin to evolve, we really want to see them move out into the real
world. How do we get them commercialized?"

Being a successful expert in the areas of medicine and science himself,
Professor Ginsburg begins to hypothesize potential answers to these questions.
"We are going to work with the Office of Licensing & Ventures, Duke's
Innovation & Entrepreneurship program, and Pratt's Office of Engineering
Entrepreneurial Ventures to connect with the entrepreneurial community to help
create a path through which MEDx innovations can actually be put out into the
real world," he said. "We want to create an engine delivering innovation in
research to the clinic."

Along with his contributions to MEDx, Professor Ginsburg has been conducting
his own research in the field of applied genomics and precision medicine.
"MEDx and applied genomics and precision medicine converge in the areas of
data analytics and diagnostics," says Professor Ginsburg. "I have worked
extensively with ECE (electrical and computer engineering) faculty on
statistical methodologies to improve disease diagnosis and treatment." He
notes that the goals of precision medicine are to have an impact on public and
individual health and are well in line with MEDx's ambitions to see the union
between medicine and engineering impact health.

Professor Ginsburg has helped with MEDx's development, but says he has also
benefited from its development in meaningful ways. "I have always been
somebody who likes to make connections. Making connections between the campus
and with people outside of Duke and seeing their collaborations and their
science flourish has been very gratifying to me," says Professor Ginsburg, who
ends with a statement that well defines the energy and fundamental purpose
behind MEDx. "I have an itch of wanting to see innovation to occur rapidly....
first to have it simply occur and then to have it occur more rapidly." Arianna
Carr is a freshman majoring in biomedical engineering.

"I have always been somebody who likes to make connections. Making connections
between the campus and with people outside of Duke and seeing their
collaborations and their science flourish has been very gratifying to me,"
says Professor Ginsburg, who ends with a statement that well defines the
energy and fundamental purpose behind MEDx. "I have an itch of wanting to see
innovation to occur rapidly.... first to have it simply occur and then to have
it occur more rapidly."

**Arianna Carr is a freshman majoring in biomedical engineering**

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2017

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

