Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Ana P. Barros

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School Distinguished Professor Emeritus of Civil and
Environmental Engineering

Professor Ana Barros was born in Africa, grew up in Angola and Portugal, and
has lived almost all of her adult life in the United States. She attended the
Faculty of Engineering of the University of O’Porto where she obtained a summa
cum laude Diploma in Civil Engineering with majors in Structures and
Hydraulics in 1985, and a M.Sc. degree in Ocean Engineering in 1988 with a
thesis focusing on numerical modeling of sediment transport in estuaries and
coastal regions. In 1990, Dr. Barros completed and M.Sc. degree in
Environmental Science Engineering at the OHSU/OGI School of Science and
Engineering. She earned a Ph.D. in Civil and Environmental Engineering from
the University of Washington, Seattle in 1993. Her graduate studies were
supported in part by fellowships from the Portuguese Foundation for Science
and Technology (FCT/JNICT), and NASA’s Graduate Fellowship program. She is
registered with the Portuguese Order of Professional Engineers since 1986.

Dr. Barros was in the engineering faculty at the University of Porto, Penn
State University, and Harvard University before joining Duke University in
2004. Her primary research interests are in Hydrology, Hydrometeorology and
Environmental Physics with a focus on water-cycle processes in the coupled
land-atmosphere-biosphere system particularly in regions of complex terrain,
the study of multi-scale interface phenomena in complex environments across
the Earth Sciences, remote sensing of the environment (precipitation, clouds,
soil moisture, and vegetation), climate predictability, extreme events and
risk assessment of natural hazards. Prof. Barros is especially proud of having
involved dozens of students in undergraduate research, a great majority of
which continued their studies to earn graduate degrees in science and
engineering. Over recent years her work has focused on precipitation processes
including microphysics and dynamics or orographic precipitation, and land-
atmosphere interactions in mountainous regions from the Himalayas to the Andes
and the Southern Appalachians including Land-Use Land-Cover Change impacts on
regional climate. Her research relies on intensive field and laboratory
experiments, large–scale computational modeling, nonlinear data analysis and
environmental informatics.

Prof. Barros served in the Space Studies Board of the National Research
Council, and in several committees of the Water Science and Technology Board
and the Board of Atmospheric Sciences and Climate including the Climate
Research Committee, and she was a member of the US National Committee for the
International Hydrology Program (IHP) of the UNESCO. She served as an elected
member of the Council of the American Meteorological Society, and serves and
served in several committees within the American Meteorological Society and
the American Geophysical Union. Prof. Barros was a member of the NOAA’s
Climate and Global Change Program and serves or has served in several working
groups at NASA, NSF and DOE-ARM. She has been an active member of several
professional organizations including the IEEE, ASCE, AGU, AMS, AAAS, EGS,
ASEE, and AWRA, and she currently serves in the ASCE committee on Climate
Change and Adaptation. Prof. Barros was the Chief Editor of the Journal of
Hydrometeorology for five years, and she was an AE of the Journal of Hydrology
until 2015 among other editor posts. She has been a Senior Fellow who the
Energy and Climate Partnership of the Americas (ECPA) since 2011.

Prof. Barros received Early Career Investigator awards from NSF and NASA in
1995 and 1996. She was a George W. Merck Faculty Fellow at Harvard University
1999-2003, and Packard Fellow nominee from Penn State University. She received
the Prize Foundation A. Almeida in Engineering in 1985, and the Lorenz G.
Straub Award for her Ph.D. thesis in 1993, and the NASA GSFC Robert H. Goddard
Award (GPM GV Team), Category of Exceptional Achievement in Science in 2014
for contributions in support of the Global Precipitation Measurement Mission.
Dr. Barros is a Member of the ASCE, Senior Member of the IEEE, a Fellow of the
American Meteorological Society, and a Fellow of the American Geophysical
Union. She was the AMS Sigma-Xi Distinguished Lecturer 2014-2015.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor Emeritus in the Department of Civil and Environmental
    Engineering
  * Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School Distinguished Professor Emeritus of Civil and
    Environmental Engineering
  * Professor
  * Faculty Network Member of The Energy Initiative

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 2453 CIEMAS, Duke University, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5539
  * **Email Address:** barros@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * http://barros-group.cee.duke.edu

## Education

  * M.S. Oregon Institute of Technology, 1990
  * Ph.D. University of Washington, 1993

## Research Interests

Physics of water cycle processes in mountainous regions with a focus on cloud
formation and precipitation; remote sensing of the environment using microwave
and infrared sensors; long– range predictability and risk analysis of natural
hazards; computational environmental fluid mechanics and nonlinear dynamics;
and the development and application of information technology as a research
tool and in the operation of complex engineering systems.

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Borland Hydrology Award. AGU Hydrology Days and Colorado State University.
    2020
  * Member. National Academy of Engineering. 2019
  * Fellow. American Association for the Advancement of Science. 2017
  * Fellow. American Society of Civil Engineers. 2016
  * Agency Group Achievement Award (to Global Precipitation Measurement Post-
    Launch Team). NASA . 2015
  * Fellow. American Geophysical Union. 2014
  * WIMEK Research Fellowship. Wageningen University. 2014
  * Fellow. American Meteorological Society. 2007
  * Professional Grade Member. American Society of Civil Engineers. 2000
  * George W. Merck Faculty Fellowship. Harvard University. 1999
  * Member. Portuguese Order of Engineers. 1996
  * New Investigator Award-MTPE. NASA. 1996
  * CAREER Award. National Science Foundation. 1995
  * Member. European Geophysical Union. 1992
  * Member. American Geophysical Union. 1991
  * Member. American Meteorological Society. 1991
  * EOS Global Climate Change Fellowship. NASA. 1990
  * Science Program Scholarship. JNICT. 1990

## Courses Taught

  * ENVIRON 899: Master's Project

## In the News

  * Nicholas Faculty Advise on North Carolina Climate Change Report (Mar 12,
    2020 |…
  * Hurricanes: How to Prepare and Why They’re Getting More Dangerous (Sep 4,
    2019)
  * Barros, Tarokh Elected Members of the National Academy of Engineering (Feb
    8, 2…
  * Predicting Weather with Big Data (May 22, 2018 | Pratt School of
    Engineering)
  * Three Faculty Elected Fellows of AAAS (Nov 21, 2017)
  * Duke Joins the University Corporation for Atmospheric Research (Nov 15,
    2017 | …
  * Rooftop Observatory Tracks Hurricane Rain and Winter Snow (Jan 19, 2017 |
    Duke …
  * Barros to Co-Chair NASA/NOAA/USGS Decadal Survey (Jun 15, 2016)
  * Surprise: Hurricanes create carbon sequestration -- exceed carbon
    emissions by …
  * Pratt Study: Hurricanes Are Key to Stronger Carbon Uptake by Forests (May
    2, 20…
  * Tuning NASA's Newest Weather Satellite to Improve Forecasts (Mar 5, 2014)

## Representative Publications

  * Cao, Y., and A. P. Barros. “Topographic controls on active microwave
    behavior of mountain snowpacks.” Remote Sensing of Environment 284
    (January 1, 2023). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2022.113373.
  * Liao, M., and A. P. Barros. “Toward optimal rainfall – Hydrologic QPE
    correction in headwater basins.” Remote Sensing of Environment 279
    (September 15, 2022). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2022.113107.
  * Tsang, L., M. Durand, C. Derksen, A. P. Barros, D. H. Kang, H. Lievens, H.
    P. Marshall, et al. “Review article: Global monitoring of snow water
    equivalent using high-frequency radar remote sensing.” Cryosphere 16, no.
    9 (September 2, 2022): 3531–73. https://doi.org/10.5194/tc-16-3531-2022.
  * Eghdami, M., A. P. Barros, P. A. Jiménez, T. W. Juliano, and B. Kosovic.
    “Diagnosis of Second-Order Turbulent Properties of the Surface Layer for
    Three-Dimensional Flow Based on the Mellor-Yamada Model.” Monthly Weather
    Review 150, no. 5 (May 1, 2022): 1003–21.
    https://doi.org/10.1175/MWR-D-21-0101.1.
  * Trumbore, S., A. P. Barros, T. W. Becker, E. A. Davidson, B. L. Ehlmann,
    N. Gruber, E. E. Hofmann, et al. “Thank You to Our 2021 Peer Reviewers.”
    Agu Advances 3, no. 2 (April 1, 2022).
    https://doi.org/10.1029/2022AV000716.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

