Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Avner Vengosh

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Nicholas Distinguished Professor of Environmental Quality

Avner Vengosh is a Duke University Distinguished Professor of Environmental
Quality at the Nicholas School of the Environment. Professor Vengosh and his
team have studied the energy-water nexus, conducting pioneer research on the
impact of hydraulic fracturing and coal ash disposal on the quantity and
quality of water resources in the U.S. and China. He has also investigated the
sources and mechanisms of water contamination in numerous countries across the
globe, including salinity and radioactivity in the Middle East, uranium in
India, fluoride in Eastern Africa, arsenic in Vietnam, and hexavalent chromium
in North Carolina and China. As part of these studies, his team has developed
novel geochemical and isotopic tracers that are used as fingerprints to
delineate the sources of water contamination and evaluate potential risks for
human health. He is a Fellow of the Geological Society of America (GSA) and
International Association of Geochemistry (IAGC). In 2019, 2020 and 2021 he
was recognized as one of the Web of Science Highly Cited Researchers. He
serves as an Editor of GeoHealth and on the editorial board of the journal
Environmental Science and Technology. He has published 165 scientific papers
in leading international journals. His recent cross-disciplinary book “Water
Quality Impacts of the Energy-Water Nexus” (Cambridge University Press, 2020)
provides an integrated assessment of the different scientific and policy tools
around the energy-water nexus. It focuses on how water use, and wastewater and
waste solids produced from fossil fuel energy production affect water quality
and quantity. Summarizing cutting edge research, the book describes the
scientific methods for detecting contamination sources in the context of
policy and regulations.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Nicholas Distinguished Professor of Environmental Quality
  * Professor of Environmental Quality
  * Professor of Earth and Ocean Sciences at Duke Kunshan University
  * Research Professor of Global Health
  * Faculty Network Member of The Energy Initiative

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 308 Research Drive, A-207 LSRC, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 681-8050
  * **Email Address:** vengosh@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Vengosh lab web site

## Education

  * B.S. Hebrew University (Israel), 1984
  * M.S. Hebrew University (Israel), 1986
  * Ph.D. Australian National University (Australia), 1990

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Leadership award by the Water-Rock Interaction (WRI) Working Group, .
    International Association of Geochemistry. 2019
  * Paper “Large-scale Uranium Contamination of Groundwater Resources in
    India” was selected as one of the best papers for 2018 . Editors of
    Environmental Science & Technology Letters. 2019
  * Paper “The geochemistry of naturally occurring methane and saline
    groundwater in an area of unconventional shale gas development” was
    selected to be the winner of the 2018 Dalway Swaine Award. Society for
    Organic Petrology . 2018
  * Geological Society of America (GSA) Fellow. Geological Society of America.
    2015

## Courses Taught

  * ECS 220: Water Sciences: Principles and Challenges
  * ECS 524: Water Quality Health
  * ENERGY 524: Water Quality Health
  * ENVIRON 220: Water Sciences: Principles and Challenges
  * ENVIRON 524: Water Quality Health
  * ENVIRON 899: Master's Project
  * ENVIRON 997: Duke Environmental Leadership: Independent Studies and
    Projects
  * EOS 220: Water Sciences: Principles and Challenges
  * EOS 393: Research Independent Study
  * EOS 394: Research Independent Study
  * EOS 524: Water Quality Health
  * EOS 791: Independent Study
  * GLHLTH 534: Water Quality Health

## In the News

  * North Carolina Lake Sediments Show Decades of Coal Ash Contamination (Sep
    30, 2…
  * Rooftop Solar Cells Can Be a Boon for Water Conservation Too (Sep 21,
    2022)
  * New Tests Track Sources of Lead Contamination in Urban Soils and Assess
    Its Ris…
  * New Tests Can Detect Tiny but Toxic Particles of Coal Ash in Soil (Jul 26,
    202…
  * Duke Awards 22 Distinguished Professorships (Jun 28, 2021)
  * High Levels of Toxic Metals Found in Coal Ash from Dominican Republic
    Power Pla…
  * What's in North Carolina Drinking Water? (Feb 7, 2020)
  * Half of Piedmont Drinking Wells May Exceed NC’s Standards for Cancer-
    Causing Ch…
  * New Tool to Track Toxic Coal Dust Can Help Protect Communities at Risk
    (Oct 22,…
  * To Save Billions of Gallons of Water, Replace Coal with Gas or Renewables
    (Oct …
  * Duke Study: EPA’s Proposed Coal Ash Amendments Will Boost Risk of Toxic
    Contami…
  * Duke Researchers Find Evidence of Multiple Unmonitored Coal Ash Spills in
    N.C. …
  * To Track Coal Ash Contamination, Look for Fish Bones (Jan 10, 2019 |
    Nicholas S…
  * After Florence: Duke Faculty Contribution to Relief Planning (Sep 24,
    2018)
  * Fracking's Water Footprint: Water Use Increases By Up to 770 Percent in
    Five Ye…
  * Widespread Uranium Contamination Found in India's Groundwater (Jun 7, 2018
    | Ni…
  * Avner Vengosh to Testify at April 25 Congressional Briefing on EPA Coal
    Ash Ame…
  * Some Coal Ash from China Too Radioactive for Reuse (Nov 9, 2017 | Nicholas
    Scho…
  * High Molybdenum in Wisconsin Wells Not from Coal Ash (Nov 1, 2017 |
    Nicholas Sc…
  * West Virginia Groundwater Not Affected by Fracking, but Surface Water Is
    (Apr 2…
  * Nicholas Research Explores Impacts of Using Oilfield Wastewater for
    Irrigation …
  * Hexavalent Chromium is Widespread in N.C. Wells but Not Linked to Coal Ash
    (Oct…
  * Study: Coal ash not culprit for cancer-causing contaminant (Oct 25, 2016 |
    ABC …
  * Duke University tests find leaching from ash sites, including two in Va.
    (Jun 1…
  * Coal Ash Ponds Found to Leak Toxic Chemicals (Jun 10, 2016)
  * Duke study finds a ‘legacy of radioactivity,’ contamination from fracking
    waste…
  * Scientists say oilfield wastewater spills release toxin (Apr 28, 2016 | US
    News…
  * Contamination in North Dakota Linked to Fracking Spills (Apr 27, 2016)
  * Duke Kunshan Workshop Explores Water Impacts Of Unconventional Energy
    Productio…
  * Two-Day Workshop To Focus On Water Impacts Of Energy Production In China
    (Oct 1…
  * Study: Water demand from fracking less than 1 percent of U.S. total (Sep
    16, 20…
  * How Much Water Does U.S. Fracking Really Use? (Sep 15, 2015)
  * Radioactive Coal Ash; Pub in West Union: The Week at Duke {in 60 Seconds}
    (Sep …
  * Coal ash contains radioactive contaminants, Duke University researchers
    say (Se…
  * Scientists discovered high levels of radioactivity in a common form of
    waste (S…
  * Radioactive Contaminants Found In Coal Ash (Sep 3, 2015)
  * Q-and-A with Avner Vengosh on hydraulic fracturing and water quality (Sep
    2, 20…
  * Avner Vengosh comments: In California, farmers rely on oil wastewater to
    weathe…
  * Gas industry's solution to toxic wastewater: Spray it on roads (Mar 3,
    2015 | N…
  * New Contaminants Found In Oil And Gas Wastewater (Jan 14, 2015)
  * Study: High levels of pollutants from drilling waste found in Pa. rivers
    (Jan 1…
  * Avner Vengosh comments: EPA sets rules on coal ash for first time (Dec 22,
    2014…

## Representative Publications

  * Vengosh, Avner, Rachel M. Coyte, Joel Podgorski, and Thomas M. Johnson. “A
    critical review on the occurrence and distribution of the uranium- and
    thorium-decay nuclides and their effect on the quality of groundwater.”
    The Science of the Total Environment 808 (February 2022): 151914.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2021.151914.
  * Vengosh, Avner, and Associate Professor of Environmental Policy Erika
    Weinthal. Water Quality Impacts of the Energy-Water Nexus, 2021.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

