Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Christine Ogilvie Hendren

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Adjunct Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

My work focuses on knowledge integration and co-generation within complex,
interdisciplinary research teams. Evidence-based methods for enabling
**convergence science** across disciplinary, sectoral, institutional and
cultural boundaries are increasingly critical to address the enormous scale
and interconnected nature of the most pressing challenges facing our world. We
know that solutions to multi-faceted problems such as energy generation,
climate change adaptation, sustainable agriculture, or environmental causes of
cancer require expertise from a wide range of groups. What has been more
recently appreciated is that expertise in effective translation and
cooperation across and between knowledge boundaries is itself a discipline,
warranting the development and teaching of evidence-based theory and praxis to
enable the collective asking and investigation of new questions that couldn’t
be posed with individual or even adjacent disciplines. In response to this
need, I research and practice within the emerging field of **Integration and
Implementation Sciences (I2S)**. The domain spaces in which I have particular
expertise revolve around methods, models and human processes to assess and
manage decisions about environmental and health risks - particularly emerging
and complex risks characterized by pervasive uncertainty. I also have
experience and strong continued interest in collaboration with humanities and
social science expertise as part of these analyses and decisions, to include
insights from philosophy, history, sociology, and other fields whose expertise
is critical in conversations about important societal decisions.

Some of my recent and ongoing I2S pursuits include **structuring and leading
convergence science research projects** , for example drawing upon diverse
expertise to investigate the fundamental mechanisms of vesicle-mediated
interkingdom communication. Another category of I2S engagement entails
**consulting, coaching, and application of formalized facilitation
approaches** as an immersed member of an established team or community.
Example activities include: structured ideation and concept mapping approaches
to generate and prioritize research needs, co-creation of visual infographics
to establish shared mental models, language workshops to illuminate shared and
divergent working definitions and underlying assumptions that unnecessarily
hamper effective cross-boundary communication. Data sharing capacity is a
common salient integration tool for teams and communities; I have experience
in community leadership across the nascent field of nanoinformatics, where we
collectively sequenced iterative data harmonization approaches for a broad
range of applications (research, regulation, commercial). Sustained immersion
at the intersections of stakeholder disciplines was particularly crucial this
field, where data maturity cannot yet support standardization, but which
depends upon increasing comparability of vast and disparate datasets.

As part of the Duke Clinical & Translational Sciences Institute, I am also
leading efforts to build and leverage Team Science curricula and training
resources to serve Duke University & Health System.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Adjunct Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 124 Hudson Hall, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5193
  * **Email Address:** christine.hendren@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Center for the Environmental Implications of NanoTechnology
    * Intereach (Interdisciplinary Integration Research Careers Hub)

## Education

  * Ph.D. Duke University, 2010

## Representative Publications

  * Rogers, Nicholas M. K., Alexander W. McCumber, Hannah M. McMillan, Ryan P.
    McNamara, Dirk P. Dittmer, Meta J. Kuehn, Christine Ogilvie Hendren, and
    Mark R. Wiesner. “Comparative electrokinetic properties of extracellular
    vesicles produced by yeast and bacteria.” Colloids Surf B Biointerfaces
    225 (May 2023): 113249. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.colsurfb.2023.113249.
  * Gottschalk, Fadri, Bruno Debray, Fred Klaessig, Barry Park, Jean-Marc
    Lacome, Alexis Vignes, Vicenç Pomar Portillo, et al. “Predicting
    accidental release of engineered nanomaterials to the environment.” Nature
    Nanotechnology, February 2023. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41565-022-01290-2.
  * Nelson, Natalie G., Maude L. Cuchiara, Christine Ogilvie Hendren, Jacob L.
    Jones, and Anna-Maria Marshall. “Hazardous Spills at Retired Fertilizer
    Manufacturing Plants Will Continue to Occur in the Absence of Scientific
    Innovation and Regulatory Enforcement.” Environmental Science & Technology
    55, no. 24 (December 2021): 16267–69.
    https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.est.1c05311.
  * Chernick, Melissa, Alan Kennedy, Treye Thomas, Keana C. K. Scott,
    Christine Ogilvie Hendren, Mark R. Wiesner, and David E. Hinton. “Impacts
    of ingested MWCNT-Embedded nanocomposites in Japanese medaka (Oryzias
    latipes).” Nanotoxicology 15, no. 10 (December 2021): 1403–22.
    https://doi.org/10.1080/17435390.2022.2028919.
  * Bossa, Nathan, Joana Marie Sipe, William Berger, Keana Scott, Alan
    Kennedy, Treye Thomas, Christine Ogilvie Hendren, and Mark R. Wiesner.
    “Quantifying Mechanical Abrasion of MWCNT Nanocomposites Used in 3D
    Printing: Influence of CNT Content on Abrasion Products and Rate of
    Microplastic Production.” Environmental Science & Technology 55, no. 15
    (August 2021): 10332–42. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.est.0c02015.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

