Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Claudia K. Gunsch

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering

**Claudia Gunsch** is a Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering and
holds secondary appointments in the Nicholas School of the Environment and the
Department of Biomedical Engineering. She joined the Duke Faculty in 2004
after obtaining her PhD from the University of Texas at Austin, her MS from
Clemson University and her BS from Purdue University. Currently, she serves as
the Director for PreMiEr, the National Science Foundation Engineering Research
Center for Precision Microbiome Engineering which is a joint venture between
Duke University, North Carolina A&T State University, North Carolina State
University, the University of North Carolina – Chapel Hill and the University
of North Carolina – Charlotte. She also serves as an Associate Director for
the Duke Microbiome Center. Previous leadership roles include serving as
Associate Dean for Research and Infrastructure for the Pratt School of
Engineering (2021-2022), Associate Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement
(2019-2021) and as the Director of IBIEM (Integrative Bioinformatics for
Investigating and Engineering Microbiomes), a joint graduate training program
between Duke and North Carolina A&T State University (2015-2021).

Dr. Gunsch’s research bridges environmental engineering and molecular
biotechnology. Current research foci include investigating the ecological
impacts of emerging contaminants on environmental microbiomes, developing
microbiome engineering approaches for bioremediation, studying microbial
evolution following exposure to anthropogenic contaminants and developing
innovative water treatment technologies. Her work has been funded in excess of
$36 million by the National Science Foundation, US Environmental Protection
Agency, National Institute for Environmental Health and Safety as well as
state funding agencies and private industry. Since becoming a faculty member,
she has served as the primary mentor for 28 graduate students (8 MS and 20
PhD), 34 undergraduate students and 8 postdoctoral associates. She has been
recognized for her research, teaching and service activities with several
awards including the 2009 National Science Foundation Faculty Early Career
Development Award, 2013 Langford Lectureship Award, 2016 Capers and Marion
McDonald Award for Excellence in Mentoring and Advising and the 2016 American
Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) Walter L. Huber Civil Engineering Research
Prize. Dr. Gunsch was also named ASCE Environmental & Water Resources
Institute Fellow in 2022, Bass Fellow in 2016 and Fellow of the National
Academy of Engineering for the United States Frontiers of Engineering in 2011
as well as the Indo-American Frontiers of Engineering in 2014.

She currently serves as Editor in Chief for Biodegradation. She is also a
member of the Editorial Board for npj Clean Water and Industrial
Biotechnology. She serves on the Association of Environmental Engineering and
Science Professors (AEESP) Board of Directors and has previously held several
leadership roles within the Environmental & Water Resources Institute (EWRI).
Most recently, she served as the Environmental Council representative to the
Technical Executive Committee to EWRI.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * Associate Dean for Research and Infrastructure in the Pratt School of
    Engineering
  * Director of the NSF Engineering Research Center for Microbiome Engineering
    (PreMiEr)
  * Associate Professor in the Division of Environmental Science and Policy
  * Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering
  * Faculty Network Member of The Energy Initiative

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 127 Hudson Hall, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5208
  * **Email Address:** ckgunsch@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Duke Microbiome Center
    * Duke University Superfund Research Center
    * Gunsch Environmental Molecular Biotechnology Laboratory
    * NSF Engineering Research Center for Precision Microbiome Engineering (PreMiEr)

## Education

  * B.S. Purdue University, 1998
  * M.S. Clemson University, 2000
  * Ph.D. University of Texas, Austin, 2004

## Research Interests

Identifying genetic adaptation mechanisms resulting from anthropogenic
contaminant exposure; developing biosensors capable of pathogen and
contaminant detection in water and air; studying the impact of emerging
contaminants on aquatic microbial ecology; and the development of novel
techniques for controlling pathogen proliferation

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Fellow. ASCE Environmental & Water Resources Institute. 2022
  * Fellow. ELATES . 2018
  * Capers and Marion McDonald Award for Excellence in Mentoring and Advising.
    Pratt School of Engineering. 2016
  * Walter L. Huber Civil Engineering Research Prize. ASCE . 2016
  * Langford Lectureship Award . Duke University . 2013
  * Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) Program. National Science
    Foundation. 2009
  * NSF Graduate Fellowship. National Science Foundation. 1999

## Courses Taught

  * BME 565L: Environmental Molecular Biotechnology (GE, MC)
  * CEE 493: Research Independent Study in Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * CEE 494: Research Independent Study in Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * CEE 566: Environmental Microbiology
  * CEE 661L: Environmental Molecular Biotechnology (GE, MC)
  * CEE 690: Advanced Topics in Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * CEE 692: Independent Study: Advanced Topics in Civil and Environmental
    Engineering
  * ENVIRON 393: Research Independent Study
  * ENVIRON 394: Research Independent Study
  * ENVIRON 899: Master's Project

## In the News

  * Welcome to the Microbial Revolution (Jan 20, 2023 | Pratt School of
    Engineering)
  * Duke-Led Center to Explore the Microbial Communities in Our Homes and
    Workspace…
  * Comparing the Swab to the Sewer (Mar 4, 2021 | Pratt School of
    Engineering)
  * Gut Microbiome Snapshot Could Reveal Chemical Exposures in Children (Dec
    3, 202…
  * Duke Researchers Journey on a Rainbow River in Search of Pollution-
    Fighting Bac…
  * Duke Awards Distinguished Professorships, Inducts New Bass Society Members
    (May…
  * Chemicals in human waste can harm crop land (Feb 25, 2014 | WUNC)
  * New Test Screens Wastewater Biosolids For Environmental Contaminants (Feb
    13, 2…

## Representative Publications

  * Varner, P. M., M. N. Allemann, J. K. Michener, and C. K. Gunsch. “The
    effect of bacterial growth strategies on plasmid transfer and naphthalene
    degradation for bioremediation.” Environmental Technology and Innovation
    28 (November 1, 2022). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eti.2022.102910.
  * Varner, Paige M., and Claudia K. Gunsch. “Complete Genome Sequence of
    NAH7-Harboring Pseudomonas putida Strain G7.” Microbiology Resource
    Announcements 11, no. 10 (October 2022): e0039422.
    https://doi.org/10.1128/mra.00394-22.
  * Welling, Claire M., David R. Singleton, Steven B. Haase, Christian H.
    Browning, Brian R. Stoner, Claudia K. Gunsch, and Sonia Grego. “Predictive
    values of time-dense SARS-CoV-2 wastewater analysis in university campus
    buildings.” The Science of the Total Environment 835 (August 2022):
    155401. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2022.155401.
  * Gardner, Courtney M., William A. Gerhard, Lauren K. Redfern, and Claudia
    K. Gunsch. “Evaluation of developing maize microbiomes and associations
    among nitrogen cyclers and key fungal taxa.” Microbiology (Reading,
    England) 168, no. 3 (March 2022). https://doi.org/10.1099/mic.0.001155.
  * Addis, Samantha D., Stephen K. Formel, Yeon Ji Kim, Paige B. Varner,
    Daniel B. Raudabaugh, Emilie Lefevre, Brittany M. Bernik, et al.
    “Alterations of endophytic microbial community function in Spartina
    alterniflora as a result of crude oil exposure.” Biodegradation 33, no. 1
    (February 2022): 87–98. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10532-021-09968-5.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

