Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# David E. Schaad

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Professor of the Practice of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Dr. David E. Schaad is a registered professional engineer in 21 states, a
Board Certified Environmental Engineer with specialties in both Hazardous
Waste Management/Site Remediation and Water Supply/Wastewater Engineering, a
Diplomate of the American Academy of Water Resources Engineers, and a licensed
contractor and a qualifier in Building, Highways and Public Utilities in the
State of North Carolina. With an undergraduate degree from Denison University,
a Masters from the University of Colorado, Boulder, and a doctorate from Duke
University, Dr. Schaad began the first stage of his career working for various
firms including: Parsons Engineering Science, Marshall Miller and Associates,
Appian Consulting Engineers, and AMEC. During that time Dr. Schaad helped lead
teams of resourceful and dedicated engineers who tackled a variety of
challenging and innovative technical projects (hazardous waste and
water/wastewater) for a diverse set of clients including the Norfolk Southern
and CSX Railway Companies, the North Carolina and Virginia Departments of
Transportation, and North Carolina State University (NCSU), among others. The
most significant project Dr. Schaad designed and managed was the remediation
of the NCSU Lot 86 National Priorities List (NPL) Site, where shallow soil
mixing was used to encapsulate approximately 11,000 cubic yards of chemical
and hazardous waste into a ten foot thick monolith about half the size of a
football field. After a successful decade and a half as a design engineer, Dr.
Schaad transitioned into investing in the next generation of leaders by
becoming a Professor of the Practice at Duke University where he could assist
future engineers in developing their design skills and ability to move from
thinking to conceptualization to implementation. In response to the December
2004 tsunami which devastated coastlines in Southeast Asia, and Hurricane
Katrina which impacted the New Orleans area, he began a new course focused on
response, rebuilding, and resilience and lead teams to both areas, with the
largest being 130 students going to St. Bernard’s Parish over the spring break
of 2006, and he continued leading teams to New Orleans every other year for a
decade since then. He helped establish Duke Engineers for International
Development (https://sites.duke.edu/deid/), which is a student group that
works in collaboration with local partners to address identified community
needs. His experiential, service-learning pedagogy has helped facilitate over
30 international (and a few domestic) projects impacting over 300 student
engineers and over a dozen communities building rain water harvesting tanks,
water distribution systems, vehicular and pedestrian bridges, health clinics
and primary schools. Dr. Schaad recently led the effort to establish a new
Certificate in Global Development Engineering, which on top of their major,
helps students broaden their global competency, establish technical depth in a
specific track, and have a mentored experiential design/construction
experience in the United States or abroad. Dr. Schaad has taught over eighty
courses at Duke and has been recognized with departmental and/or school-wide
awards for his teaching and mentoring. He currently serves as the President of
the Eastern Branch of the North Carolina Section of ASCE.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor of the Practice of Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * Director of the Grand Challenge Scholars Program
  * Affiliate, Duke Global Health Institute
  * Faculty Network Member of The Energy Initiative
  * Affiliate of the Duke Initiative for Science & Society

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 126 Hudson Hall, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5174
  * **Email Address:** david.schaad@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Certificate in Global Development Engineering
    * DIED
    * Grand Challenge Scholars Program

## Education

  * B.A. Denison University, 1990
  * M.S. University of Colorado - Boulder, 1991
  * Ph.D. Duke University, 1998

## Research Interests

Sustainable engineering, community development, water and wastewater treatment
design, stormwater retention/detention and treatment design, hazardous waste
remediation, urban hydrology, constructed wetland and stream restoration
design, ecological stabilization, sustainable engineering in land development,
water resources, water and wastewater treatment.

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Member. Pi Mu Epsilon National Mathematics Honorary Society. 1990
  * Member. Sigma Pi Sigma National Physics Honorary Society. 1990
  * Member. Sigma Xi Scientific Research Society. 1990

## Courses Taught

  * CEE 132L: Engineering the Planet
  * CEE 205: Practical Methods in Civil Engineering
  * CEE 315-20: Engineering Sustainable Design and the Global Community:
    Structural Focus
  * CEE 315-60: Engineering Sustainable Design and the Global Community:
    Environmental Focus
  * CEE 429: Integrated Structural Design
  * CEE 469: Integrated Environmental Design
  * CEE 511: Construction Management
  * CEE 649: Structural Engineering Project Management
  * CEE 679: Environmental Engineering Project Management
  * EGR 101L: Engineering Design and Communication
  * EGR 201L: Mechanics of Solids
  * ENVIRON 365-20: Engineering Sustainable Design and the Global Community:
    Structural Focus
  * ENVIRON 365-60: Engineering Sustainable Design and the Global Community:
    Environmental Focus
  * ENVIRON 999: Duke Environmental Leadership: Master's Project
  * PUBPOL 211-20: Engineering Sustainable Design and the Global Community:
    Structural Focus
  * PUBPOL 211-60: Engineering Sustainable Design and the Global Community:
    Environmental Focus
  * RIGHTS 315-20: Engineering Sustainable Design and the Global Community:
    Structural Focus
  * RIGHTS 315-60: Engineering Sustainable Design and the Global Community:
    Environmental Focus

## In the News

  * Building a Safe Pathway to School in Bolivia, 55 Feet in the Air (Oct 12,
    2022 …
  * Reverse Osmosis: How Engineers Save Lives (May 12, 2021)
  * How Engineers Save Lives and Enable Human Civilization (Sep 28, 2020)
  * Engineers Building Bridges (and Other Good DEIDS) (Oct 4, 2019 | Pratt
    School o…
  * CEE Students Train to Survive the Zombie Apocalypse (Oct 24, 2016)
  * Duke Engineers Build Bridges in Rwanda (Aug 12, 2015)
  * After Texas shooting: If free speech is provocative, should there be
    limits? (M…
  * Engineering on a Bed of Nails (Mar 12, 2014)

## Representative Publications

  * MacDonald, L., E. Thomas, A. Javernick-Will, J. Austin-Breneman, I.
    Aranda, C. Salvinelli, R. Klees, et al. “Aligning learning objectives and
    approaches in global engineering graduate programs: Review and
    recommendations by an interdisciplinary working group.” Development
    Engineering 7 (January 1, 2022).
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.deveng.2022.100095.
  * Huettel, L., M. R. Gustafson, J. C. Nadeau, D. Schaad, M. M. Barger, and
    L. Linnenbrink-Garcia. “A grand challenge-based framework for contextual
    learning in engineering: Impact on student outcomes and motivation.” In
    Asee Annual Conference and Exposition, Conference Proceedings, Vol. 122nd
    ASEE Annual Conference and Exposition: Making Value for Society, 2015.
  * Huettel, L., M. R. Gustafson, J. C. Nadeau, D. E. Schaad, M. M. Barger,
    and L. Linnenbrink-Garcia. “Evidence for the effectiveness of a grand
    challenge-based framework for contextual learning.” Asee Annual Conference
    and Exposition, Conference Proceedings, January 1, 2014.
  * Huettel, L. G., M. R. Gustafson, J. C. Nadeau, D. Schaad, M. M. Barger,
    and L. Linnenbrink-Garcia. “A grand challenge-based framework for
    contextual learning in engineering.” Asee Annual Conference and
    Exposition, Conference Proceedings, September 24, 2013.
  * Schaad, D. E., J. Farley, and C. Haynes. “Design and routing of storm
    flows in an urbanized watershed without surface streams.” Journal of
    Hydrology 375, no. 3–4 (September 15, 2009): 334–44.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhydrol.2009.06.028.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

