Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# David E. Hinton

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Nicholas Distinguished Professor Emeritus of Environmental Quality

The Hinton laboratory focuses on mechanistic toxicity in all life stages of
small, aquarium model fish and in selected species with particular
environmental relevance (freshwater and marine). With the latter,
investigations focus on stressor responses and include follow up studies after
oil spills. Studies with the laboratory model fish take advantage of the
compressed life cycle to improve understanding of organellar, cellular and
tissues responses that arise after exposure and follow either a temporal
and/or a concentration gradient. At the end of these serial examinations, we
have pioneered the use of high resolution light and fluorescent microscopy and
electron microscopy in these small fish species to better understand resultant
phenotypes and to correlate structural alteration with molecular biological
studies. In this way we are anchoring phenotypes with gene expression. In
individual fish where specific genes have been mutated (Collaboration with Dr.
Keith Cheng, Hershey Medical Center, Hershey, PA) or in individuals exposed to
organic substances of known or expected toxicity, structural analysis at
various levels of biological organization enables integration across all
levels of biological organization enabling whole body phenomics. Special
projects include The Duke Superfund Research Center, 2P42-ESO10356-10A2,
supported by NIH/NIEHS. Studies investigate responses of fish to polycyclic
aromatic hydrocarbons and include early life stages and multigenerational
effects. Contaminated and reference sites are included in these investigations
of feral fish. Also, we receive funding as part of theme 2 of the Center for
Environmental Implications of Nano Technology (CEINT). Our studies seek to
determine whether there are specific toxic consequences upon exposure to nano
silver (Ag NPs) versus exposure to conventional silver. We hosted Na Zheng
(Angie), Visiting Investigator, Associate Professor, Northeast Institute of
Geography and Agricultural Ecology, Chinese Academy of Sciences. She was the
recipient of a K.C. Wong award supporting her role as visiting investigator.
Together, we investigated metals mixtures and embryo toxicity. We collaborate
with Stella Marinakos, Pratt School and CEINT on the synthesis and refinement
of nanoselenium. This complements work done over the past year with seleno-
methionine and sodium selenite in parental and embryo exposures. We continue
to investigate ways to assess whole body responses of aquarium model fish and
to link phenotype to genotype. Collaboration with the Stapleton laboratory has
investigated alterations in embryo and larval zebrafish exposed to flame
retardant compounds and selected metabolites. Here our morphologic
investigations have helped to differentiate between delayed development and
toxicity in the developing eye.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Nicholas Distinguished Professor Emeritus of Environmental Quality
  * Professor Emeritus of Environmental Quality

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** A333a LSRC, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 613-8038
  * **Email Address:** dhinton1@nc.rr.com
  * **Websites:**
    * Coon and Fishing Creeks Community Website

## Education

  * B.S. Mississippi College, 1965
  * M.S. University of Mississippi, 1967
  * Ph.D. University of Mississippi, 1969

## Courses Taught

  * ENVIRON 89S: First-Year Seminar
  * ENVIRON 393: Research Independent Study
  * ENVIRON 394: Research Independent Study
  * ENVIRON 495: Senior Capstone Course
  * ENVIRON 899: Master's Project
  * ENVIRON 997: Duke Environmental Leadership: Independent Studies and
    Projects
  * ENVIRON 999: Duke Environmental Leadership: Master's Project

## In the News

  * Microplastic Fibers Linked to Respiratory, Reproductive Changes in Fish
    (Mar 16…
  * Blocking Key Gene Reduces Cigarette Smoke Toxicity in Fish Embryos (Sep
    19, 201…

## Representative Publications

  * Chernick, Melissa, Alan Kennedy, Treye Thomas, Keana C. K. Scott,
    Christine Ogilvie Hendren, Mark R. Wiesner, and David E. Hinton. “Impacts
    of ingested MWCNT-Embedded nanocomposites in Japanese medaka (Oryzias
    latipes).” Nanotoxicology 15, no. 10 (December 2021): 1403–22.
    https://doi.org/10.1080/17435390.2022.2028919.
  * Chen, Xueping, Shuk Han Cheng, Masato Kinoshita, Peter A. de Witte,
    Jianjun Liu, David Hinton, Thomas Braunbeck, et al. “Pre-validation of
    choriogenin H transgenic medaka eleutheroembryos as a quantitative
    estrogenic activity test method.” Analytical Biochemistry 629 (September
    2021): 114311. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ab.2021.114311.
  * Dong, W., J. Liu, L. Wei, Y. Jingfeng, M. Chernick, and D. E. Hinton.
    “Developmental toxicity from exposure to various forms of mercury
    compounds in medaka fish (Oryzias latipes) embryos.” Peerj 4 (January 1,
    2021). https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.preprints.2329.
  * Chernick, Melissa, Tara Burke, Noah Lieberman, Daniel R. Brown, Richard T.
    Di Giulio, and David E. Hinton. “Heart development in two populations of
    Atlantic killifish (Fundulus heteroclitus) following exposure to a
    polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon mixture.” Ecotoxicology and Environmental
    Safety 208 (January 2021): 111580.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecoenv.2020.111580.
  * Bozinovic, Goran, Damian Shea, Zuying Feng, David Hinton, Tim Sit, and
    Marjorie F. Oleksiak. “PAH-pollution effects on sensitive and resistant
    embryos: Integrating structure and function with gene expression.” Plos
    One 16, no. 4 (January 2021): e0249432.
    https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0249432.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

