Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# J. Jeffrey Peirce

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Associate Professor Emeritus of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Jeffrey Peirce received a bachelor of engineering science degree in
engineering mechanics from the Johns Hopkins University in 1971, and a Ph.D.
in civil and environmental engineering from the University of Wisconsin at
Madison in 1977. Prior to joining the Duke faculty in 1979, Professor Peirce
was a Senior Engineer in the Environmental and Energy Division of Booz, Allen
and Hamilton in Washington, D.C.

Professor Peirce's current research activities build on his interests in
mechanics and include the study of physical, chemical, and microbiological
aspects of particle-fluid interactions in treatment reactors, waste-amended
and chemically-applied soils, and clay barriers to waste migration. Laboratory
and modeling studies of gases, non-water liquids passing through selected
porous media are leading to novel solutions to hazardous waste processing and
storage problems. Current emphasis is on the study of trace gas production and
transport in soil with a focus on nitric oxide (NO), a precursor to ozone
formation and trace gases from fungicides and herbicides as precursors to
endocrine disruptors in the lower levels of the troposphere.

In 1984, Professor Peirce was among the first recipients of the Presidential
Young Investigator Award, presented by the National Science Foundation. This
award and other financial support from the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, the U.S. Department of Energy, the U.S. Department of Education, the
State of North Carolina, and industrial sponsors have enabled him to pursue
his research interests.

Professor Peirce has coauthored two successful textbooks: Environmental
Engineering and Environmental Pollution and Control. Both texts are used in
classrooms nationwide and have been translated into several languages for
adoption in other countries.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Associate Professor Emeritus of Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * Faculty Network Member of The Energy Initiative

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 134A Engineering Bldg, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5210
  * **Email Address:** peirce@duke.edu

## Education

  * B.S. Johns Hopkins University, 1971
  * M.S. University of Wisconsin - Madison, 1973
  * Ph.D. University of Wisconsin - Madison, 1977

## Representative Publications

  * Pollak, A. W., J. J. Peirce, L. J. Alvarez-Vázquez, and M. E. Vázquez-
    Méndez. “Methodology for Identifying Optimal Locations of Water Quality
    Sensors in River Systems.” Environmental Modeling and Assessment 18, no. 1
    (January 1, 2013): 95–103. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10666-012-9329-z.
  * Anderson, T. S., E. K. Michael, and J. J. Peirce. “Innovative Approaches
    for Managing Public-Private Academic Partnerships in Big Science and
    Engineering.” Public Organization Review 12, no. 1 (March 1, 2012): 1–22.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s11115-010-0142-3.
  * Wander, M., and J. J. Peirce. “Formulation, structure, and analysis of a
    model to optimize staffing levels at border checkpoints.” Journal of
    Transportation Engineering 137, no. 11 (December 16, 2011): 789–95.
    https://doi.org/10.1061/(ASCE)TE.1943-5436.0000268.
  * Rawot, L. A., J. J. Peirce, and B. Kanoy. “Preparing for the WATERS
    network: Engaging middle-school science students in environmental
    engineering.” Journal of Professional Issues in Engineering Education and
    Practice 137, no. 3 (July 1, 2011): 135–40.
    https://doi.org/10.1061/(ASCE)EI.1943-5541.0000036.
  * Fukushima, A., and J. J. Peirce. “A hybrid performance measurement
    framework for optimal decisions.” Measuring Business Excellence 15, no. 2
    (May 1, 2011): 32–43. https://doi.org/10.1108/13683041111131600.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

