Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Lawrence N. Virgin

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Professor Virgin's research is centered on studying the behavior of nonlinear
dynamical systems. This work may be broadly divided into two components.
First, investigation of the fundamental nature of nonlinear systems based on a
mathematical description of their underlying equations of motion. Both
analytical and numerical techniques are used with special attention focused on
the loss of stability of dynamical systems.  

The second area of interest is to apply recent results from nonlinear
dynamical systems theory to problems of practical engineering importance.
These include the nonlinear rolling motion of ships leading to capsize;
buckling of axially-loaded structural components; aeroelastic flutter of
aircraft panels at high supersonic speeds; vibration isolation based on
nonlinear springs; energy harvesting; damage detection and structural health
monitoring; and the dynamics of very flexible structures including solar sails
and marine risers. Professor Virgin conducts mechanical experiments to
complement these studies.

The flavor of much of this work is contained in the books:

Introduction to Experimental Nonlinear Dynamics, L.N. Virgin, Cambridge
University Press, 2000.

Vibration of Axially Loaded Structures, L.N. Virgin, Cambridge University
Press, 2007.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 3393 Fciemas, Duke Box 90300, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5342
  * **Email Address:** l.virgin@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * http://nonlineardynamics.pratt.duke.edu/

## Education

  * B.S. University of Manchester (United Kingdom), 1981
  * M.S. Cardiff University (United Kingdom), 1982
  * Ph.D. University of London (United Kingdom), 1986

## Research Interests

Study of the behavior of nonlinear dynamical systems, including the
investigation of the fundamental nature of nonlinear systems based on a
mathematical description of their underlying equations of motion and the
application of recent results from nonlinear dynamical systems theory to
problems of practical engineering importance, especially in aerospace
engineering.

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Frocht Award. Society for Experimental Mechanics. 2016
  * International Gas Turbine Institute's (IGTI) J. P. Davis Award. American
    Society of Mechanical Engineers. 2012

## Courses Taught

  * ME 391: Undergraduate Projects in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 392: Undergraduate Projects in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 394: Engineering Undergraduate Fellows Projects
  * ME 473: Aerospace Structures
  * ME 490: Special Topics in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 491: Special Projects in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 492: Special Projects in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 493: Engineering Undergraduate Fellows Projects
  * ME 494: Engineering Undergraduate Fellows Projects
  * ME 555: Advanced Topics in Mechanical Engineering
  * ME 592: Research Independent Study in Mechanical Engineering or Material
    Science
  * ME 742: Nonlinear Mechanical Vibration

## In the News

  * Crushing Cylinders for Fun and Science (Jan 23, 2023 | Pratt School of
    Engineer…
  * The Sky's the Limit for Duke Engineers Designing the Safest, Most Cost-
    Efficien…

## Representative Publications

  * Virgin, L. N., and P. S. Harvey. “A lateral–torsional buckling
    demonstration model using 3D printing.” Engineering Structures 280 (April
    1, 2023). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.engstruct.2023.115682.
  * Cooley, S. A., H. Yang, and L. N. Virgin. “3D-printing and cylinder
    buckling: challenges and opportunities.” Philosophical Transactions.
    Series A, Mathematical, Physical, and Engineering Sciences 381, no. 2244
    (April 2023): 20220035. https://doi.org/10.1098/rsta.2022.0035.
  * Virgin, L. N. “On the elastic snapping of structural elements.”
    International Journal of Non Linear Mechanics 149 (March 1, 2023).
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijnonlinmec.2022.104329.
  * Cervi, C., S. T. Santillan, and L. N. Virgin. “Interrogating the
    Configuration Space of Postbuckled Beams.” Journal of Engineering
    Mechanics 149, no. 3 (March 1, 2023).
    https://doi.org/10.1061/JENMDT.EMENG-6839.
  * Virgin, L. N. “A shear center demonstration model using 3D-printing.”
    International Journal of Mechanical Engineering Education 50, no. 3 (July
    1, 2022): 739–48. https://doi.org/10.1177/03064190211057429.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

