Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# P. Lee Ferguson

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Associate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Dr. Ferguson is an Environmental Analytical Chemist who joined Duke in 2009
after six years as an assistant professor in the Department of Chemistry &
Biochemistry at the University of South Carolina.

Research in the Ferguson laboratory is focused on development of novel methods
for trace analysis of organic and nanoparticulate contaminants in the aquatic
environment. Specifically, the laboratory uses high performance mass
spectrometry techniques (e.g. UHPLC-Orbitrap MS/MS) to detect, identify, and
quantify emerging contaminants (including endocrine disruptors,
pharmaceuticals, and surfactants) in wastewater and drinking water. Another
significant research thrust involves the development of sensitive trace
analytical techniques for quantifying and characterizing single-walled carbon
nanotubes in water, sediment, and aquatic organism tissues. For this work,
near infrared fluorescence spectroscopy (NIRF) is used as a primary tool for
resolving these novel nanoparticulate contaminants in highly complex
environmental mixtures.

The analytical methods developed in the Ferguson laboratory laboratory (for
both nanoparticles and organic contaminants) are applied to both process-
oriented environmental chemistry experiments in the field and laboratory as
well as to toxicity bioassays (including whole-organism assays and molecular
endpoints). The overarching goal is to gain an increased understanding of how
emerging contaminants are transported, transformed and induce deleterious
effects within aquatic ecosystems.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Associate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences and Policy

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 534 Research Dr., Wilkinson Building, Room 205,
    Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5460
  * **Email Address:** lee.ferguson@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Environmental Exposomics Lab
    * Falk Foundation Environmental Exposomics Laboratory
    * Ferguson Group Webpage

## Education

  * Ph.D. State University of New York, Stony Brook, 2002

## Research Interests

Environmental analytical chemistry and applications of high resolution mass
spectrometry to trace organic contaminant analysis, environmental fate and
effects of carbon nanomaterials in the aquatic environment, proteomics in
environmental toxicology, and mechanisms of environmental endocrine disruption
in aquatic organisms

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Kavli Frontiers of Science Fellow. National Academy of Sciences. 2011
  * Outstanding Performance Award. Fundamental Science Directorate, Pacific
    Northwest National Laboratory. 2003
  * President's Award to Distinguished Doctoral Students. Stony Brook
    University. 2002
  * Honorable Mention. National Science Foundation Graduate Fellowship
    Competition. 1998
  * U.S. EPA STAR Graduate Fellowship. Environmental Protection Agency. 1998
  * Belle W. Baruch Outstanding Undergrduate in Marine Science Award.
    University of South Carolina. 1997
  * Howard Hughes Undergraduate Research Fellow. University of South Carolina.
    1996
  * Senior Scholars Scholarship. University of South Carolina. 1996
  * Undergraduate Research Fellow, South Carolina EPSCoR. National Science
    Foundation. 1995

## Courses Taught

  * CEE 565: Environmental Analytical Chemistry
  * CEE 667: Chemical Transformation of Environmental Contaminants
  * CEE 690: Advanced Topics in Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * ENVIRON 393: Research Independent Study
  * ENVIRON 566: Environmental Analytical Chemistry
  * ENVIRON 573A: Coastal and Marine Pollution
  * ENVIRON 593: Independent Studies and Projects
  * ENVIRON 667: Chemical Transformation of Environmental Contaminants
  * ENVIRON 790: Special Topics
  * ENVIRON 898: Program Area Seminar
  * ENVIRON 899: Master's Project
  * ENVIRON 997: Duke Environmental Leadership: Independent Studies and
    Projects
  * ENVIRON 999: Duke Environmental Leadership: Master's Project
  * MARSCI 573A: Coastal and Marine Pollution

## In the News

  * Engineering the End of ‘Forever Chemicals’ (Nov 30, 2022 | Duke
    Engineering Mag…
  * Dipping Into Sri Lanka's Rural Wells (Feb 22, 2022 | Pratt School of
    Engineerin…
  * What's in North Carolina Drinking Water? (Feb 7, 2020)
  * Contaminated Water in North Carolina Backyards (Feb 5, 2020 | Duke
    Research Blo…
  * Hurricanes: How to Prepare and Why They’re Getting More Dangerous (Sep 4,
    2019)
  * Duke Expert Helps Spearhead State's New Water-Testing Program (Aug 8,
    2018)
  * Nanoparticles Accumulate Quickly in Wetland Sediment (Oct 1, 2014 | Pratt
    Schoo…

## Representative Publications

  * Herkert, Nicholas J., Christopher D. Kassotis, Sharon Zhang, Yuling Han,
    Vivek Francis Pulikkal, Mei Sun, P Lee Ferguson, and Heather M. Stapleton.
    “Characterization of Per- and Polyfluorinated Alkyl Substances Present in
    Commercial Anti-fog Products and Their In Vitro Adipogenic Activity.”
    Environmental Science & Technology 56, no. 2 (January 2022): 1162–73.
    https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.est.1c06990.
  * Overdahl, Kirsten E., David Gooden, Benjamin Bobay, Gordon J. Getzinger,
    Heather M. Stapleton, and P Lee Ferguson. “Characterizing azobenzene
    disperse dyes in commercial mixtures and children's polyester clothing.”
    Environmental Pollution (Barking, Essex : 1987) 287 (October 2021):
    117299. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envpol.2021.117299.
  * Walker, I., M. D. Montaño, R. S. Lankone, D. H. Fairbrother, and P. L.
    Ferguson. “Influence of CNT loading and environmental stressors on
    leaching of polymer-associated chemicals from epoxy and polycarbonate
    nanocomposites.” Environmental Chemistry 18, no. 3 (September 1, 2021):
    131–41. https://doi.org/10.1071/EN21043.
  * Ulrich, Jake C., and P Lee Ferguson. “Development of a sensitive direct
    injection LC-MS/MS method for the detection of glyphosate and
    aminomethylphosphonic acid (AMPA) in hard waters.” Analytical and
    Bioanalytical Chemistry 413, no. 14 (June 2021): 3763–74.
    https://doi.org/10.1007/s00216-021-03324-5.
  * Getzinger, Gordon, and Lee Ferguson. “High-Throughput Trace-Level Suspect
    Screening for Per- and Polyfluoroalkyl Substances in Environmental Waters
    by Peak-Focusing Online Solid Phase Extraction and High-Resolution Mass
    Spectrometry.” Acs Es&T Water, April 8, 2021.
  * Overdahl, Kirsten E., Rebecca Sutton, Jennifer Sun, Noelle J. DeStefano,
    Gordon J. Getzinger, and P Lee Ferguson. “Assessment of emerging polar
    organic pollutants linked to contaminant pathways within an urban estuary
    using non-targeted analysis.” Environmental Science. Processes & Impacts
    23, no. 3 (March 2021): 429–45. https://doi.org/10.1039/d0em00463d.
  * Getzinger, Gordon J., Christopher P. Higgins, and P Lee Ferguson.
    “Structure Database and In Silico Spectral Library for Comprehensive
    Suspect Screening of Per- and Polyfluoroalkyl Substances (PFASs) in
    Environmental Media by High-resolution Mass Spectrometry.” Analytical
    Chemistry 93, no. 5 (February 2021): 2820–27.
    https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.analchem.0c04109.
  * Montaño, Manuel D., Keira Liu, Tara Sabo-Attwood, and P Lee Ferguson.
    “Analysis of Single-Walled Carbon Nanotubes in Estuarine Sediments by
    Density Gradient Ultracentrifugation Coupled to Near-Infrared Fluorescence
    Spectroscopy Reveals Disassociation of Residual Metal Catalyst
    Nanoparticles.” Environmental Science & Technology 55, no. 2 (January
    2021): 1015–23. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.est.0c06058.
  * Getzinger, G. J., and P. L. Ferguson. “Illuminating the exposome with
    high-resolution accurate-mass mass spectrometry and nontargeted analysis.”
    Current Opinion in Environmental Science and Health 15 (June 1, 2020):
    49–56. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.coesh.2020.05.005.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

