Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Marc A. Jeuland

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Associate Professor in the Sanford School of Public Policy

Marc Jeuland is an Associate Professor in the Sanford School of Public Policy,
with a joint appointment in the Duke Global Health Institute. His research
interests include nonmarket valuation, water and sanitation, environmental
health, energy poverty and transitions, trans-boundary water resource planning
and management, and the impacts and economics of climate change.  
  
Jeuland's recent research includes work to understand the economic
implications of climate change for water resources projects on transboundary
river systems, a range of primary data collection projects related to analysis
of adoption of environmental health improving technology, and analysis of the
costs and benefits of environmental health interventions in developing
countries. He has conducted multiple field experiments on issues such as: the
role of water quality information in affecting household water and hygiene
behaviors; the demand for, and impacts of cleaner cookstoves on household
well-being; the long-term sustainability and effects of rural sanitation and
water supply projects. He has also collected data on preferences for a range
of environmental health improvements including cholera vaccines, household
water treatment technologies and improved cookstoves. In the energy and
development domain, he is currently working on several projects with the
Energy Access Project at Duke, and is a co-founder of the Sustainable Energy
Transitions Initiative (SETI), along with Professor Subhrendu Pattanayak and
scholars from Chile, China and Ethiopia. His energy portfolio includes work
related to evaluation of cleaner cooking interventions, measuring energy
access and reliability, and reviews of the drivers and impacts literature
related to energy.

Jeuland has worked in the past with the World Bank, USAID, the Millennium
Challenge Corporation, UNICEF, and many field-based NGOs and community-based
implementing organizations.

Prior to his graduate studies and work with the World Bank, Jeuland was a
Peace Corps volunteer in Mali, West Africa, where he designed and monitored
construction of a pilot wastewater treatment system and trained management
personnel at the plant’s managing firm.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Associate Professor in the Sanford School of Public Policy
  * Associate Research Professor of Global Health
  * Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences and Policy
  * Faculty Network Member of The Energy Initiative
  * Faculty Research Scholar of DuPRI's Population Research Center

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 254 Rubenstein Hall, Box 90312, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 613-4395
  * **Email Address:** marc.jeuland@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Marc Jeuland CV
    * Personal web site

## Education

  * B.S. Swarthmore College, 2001
  * Ph.D. University of North Carolina - Chapel Hill, 2009

## Courses Taught

  * ECON 338: Economics of the Public Sector
  * ENVIRON 563: Cost-Benefit Analysis for Health and Environmental Policy

## In the News

  * Clean Cookstoves are a Low-Cost Way to Fight Climate Change – if People
    Use The…
  * Flexible Approaches May Encourage More People to Use Clean Cookstoves (Jun
    30, …
  * Energy Initiative Awards Seven New Seed Grants (Apr 28, 2017)
  * A Fireside Chat on the Global Water Crisis with Marc Jeuland (Oct 9, 2015
    | Duk…
  * Why 'Improved' Water Sources Are Not Always Safe (Apr 23, 2014)

## Representative Publications

  * Jeuland, M., J. Baker, R. Bartlett, and G. Lacombe. “The costs of
    uncoordinated infrastructure management in multi-reservoir river basins.”
    Environmental Research Letters 9, no. 10 (October 1, 2014).
    https://doi.org/10.1088/1748-9326/9/10/105006.
  * Shaheed, Ameer, Jennifer Orgill, Maggie A. Montgomery, Marc A. Jeuland,
    and Joe Brown. “Why "improved" water sources are not always safe.”
    Bulletin of the World Health Organization 92, no. 4 (April 2014): 283–89.
    https://doi.org/10.2471/blt.13.119594.
  * Jeuland, M., and D. Whittington. “Water resources planning under climate
    change: Assessing the robustness of real options for the Blue Nile.” Water
    Resources Research 50, no. 3 (January 1, 2014): 2086–2107.
    https://doi.org/10.1002/2013WR013705.
  * Jeuland, Marc A., David E. Fuente, Semra Ozdemir, Maura C. Allaire, and
    Dale Whittington. “The long-term dynamics of mortality benefits from
    improved water and sanitation in less developed countries.” Plos One 8,
    no. 10 (2013): e74804. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0074804.
  * Jeuland, Marc A., and Subhrendu K. Pattanayak. “Benefits and costs of
    improved cookstoves: assessing the implications of variability in health,
    forest and climate impacts.” Plos One 7, no. 2 (2012): e30338.
    https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0030338.
  * Whittington, D., M. Jeuland, K. Barker, and Y. Yuen. “Setting Priorities,
    Targeting Subsidies among Water, Sanitation, and Preventive Health
    Interventions in Developing Countries.” World Development 40, no. 8
    (2012): 1546–68. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.worlddev.2012.03.004.
  * Hamoudi, A., A. A, M. Jeuland, S. Lombardo, S. R. Patil, S. K. Pattanayak,
    and S. Rai. “Household responses to water quality testing in rural India:
    Evidence from a randomized experiment.” American Journal of Tropical
    Medicine and Hygiene 87 (2012): 18–22.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

