Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Mark Edward Borsuk

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Mark Borsuk’s research concerns the development and application of
mathematical models for integrating scientific information on natural,
technical, and social systems. He is a widely-cited expert in Bayesian network
modeling with regular application to environmental and human health regulation
and decision making. He is also the originator of novel approaches to climate
change assessment, combining risk analysis, game theory, and agent-based
modeling. Borsuk’s highly collaborative research has been funded by NSF, EPA,
NIH, NIEHS and USFS, and he has authored or co-authored 75 peer-reviewed
journal publications and 6 book chapters.

Borsuk received the Chauncey Starr Distinguished Young Risk Analyst Award from
the Society for Risk Analysis in 2013 and the Early Career Research Excellence
Award from the International Environmental Modelling and Software Society in
2008. Before joining the Duke faculty, Dr. Borsuk was a member of the
Dartmouth College faculty for 10 years where he held an appointment in the
Thayer School of Engineering. Dr. Borsuk received a B.S.E. in Civil
Engineering and Operations Research from Princeton University, an M.S. in
Statistics and Decision Sciences from Duke University, and a Ph.D. in
Environmental Science and Policy from Duke University. He did his post-
doctoral training in the Department of Systems Analysis, Integrated
Assessment, and Modelling (SIAM) at the Swiss Federal Institute for Aquatic
Science and Technology (EAWAG), where he advanced to head of the Decision
Analysis and Integrated Assessment group.

As part of his appointment at Duke, Dr. Borsuk directs a new interdisciplinary
research and teaching initiative in risk, uncertainty, optimization and
decision-making.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * Director of the RESILE Center
  * Associate of the Duke Initiative for Science & Society

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 166 Hudson Hall, Box 90287, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-1767
  * **Email Address:** mark.borsuk@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * Borsuk Lab

## Education

  * Ph.D. Duke University, 2001

## Research Interests

Mathematical models for integrating scientific information on natural,
technical, and social systems; Bayesian network modeling with regular
application to environmental and human health regulation and decision making;
novel approaches to climate change assessment, combining risk analysis, game
theory, and agent-based modeling.

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Chauncey Starr Distinguished Young Risk Analyst Award. Society for Risk
    Analysis. 2013
  * Early Career Research Excellence Award. International Environmental
    Modelling and Software Society. 2008

## Courses Taught

  * CEE 201L: Uncertainty Design and Optimization
  * CEE 394: Research Independent Study in Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * CEE 493: Research Independent Study in Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * CEE 494: Research Independent Study in Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * CEE 690: Advanced Topics in Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * CEE 692: Independent Study: Advanced Topics in Civil and Environmental
    Engineering
  * DECSCI 235: Risk
  * ECON 212: Engineering Systems Optimization and Economics
  * ECON 235: Risk
  * EGR 305: Engineering Systems Optimization and Economics
  * EGRMGMT 590: Advanced Topics in Engineering Management
  * MENG 550: Master of Engineering Internship/Project
  * MENG 551: Master of Engineering Internship/Project Assessment
  * MENG 552: Master of Engineering Supplemental Internship
  * PUBPOL 235: Risk
  * SCISOC 235: Risk

## In the News

  * The Climate Crisis is Imminent: Duke Experts Offer Their Solutions (Feb 4,
    2022…
  * Using Good Governance to Mitigate Natural Disasters (Dec 15, 2017)
  * Energy Initiative Awards Seven New Seed Grants (Apr 28, 2017)
  * Mark Borsuk: Valuing the Invaluable, Predicting the Unpredictable (Oct 1,
    2016)

## Representative Publications

  * Calder, Ryan S. D., Celine S. Robinson, and Mark E. Borsuk. “Total Social
    Costs and Benefits of Long-Distance Hydropower Transmission.”
    Environmental Science & Technology 56, no. 24 (December 2022): 17510–22.
    https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.est.2c06221.
  * Krapu, C., and M. Borsuk. “A Differentiable Hydrology Approach for
    Modeling With Time-Varying Parameters.” Water Resources Research 58, no. 9
    (September 1, 2022). https://doi.org/10.1029/2021WR031377.
  * Holt, Jonathan R., Jennifer R. Smetzer, Mark E. Borsuk, Danelle Laflower,
    David A. Orwig, and Jonathan R. Thompson. “Emerald ash borer intensifies
    harvest regimes on private land.” Ecological Applications : A Publication
    of the Ecological Society of America 32, no. 2 (March 2022): e2508.
    https://doi.org/10.1002/eap.2508.
  * Mavrommati, G., M. E. Borsuk, A. I. Kreiley, C. Larosee, S. Rogers, K.
    Burford, and R. B. Howarth. “A methodological framework for understanding
    shared social values in deliberative valuation.” Ecological Economics 190
    (December 1, 2021). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecolecon.2021.107185.
  * Holt, J. R., B. J. Butler, M. E. Borsuk, M. Markowski-Lindsay, M. G.
    MacLean, and J. R. Thompson. “Using the Theory of Planned Behavior to
    Understand Family Forest Owners’ Intended Responses to Invasive Forest
    Insects.” Society and Natural Resources 34, no. 8 (January 1, 2021):
    1001–18. https://doi.org/10.1080/08941920.2021.1924330.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

