Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Michael Howard Bergin

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Sternberg Family Professor of Civil & Environmental Engineering

My general research focus is on the influence of air pollution on both climate
and human health. My specific interest is particulate matter (PM), and I have
done a wide range of studies on the emission, formation, deposition and
impacts of PM. I am particularly interested in how PM impacts climate by
modifying the radiation balance of the atmosphere and I have done studies in
both pristine regions of the world (Greenland and the Himalaya), as well as
hazy regions (the Southeastern US, China, and India). More recently I have
been studying the influence of PM on human health with emphasis on determining
the relative contributions of sources (such as biomass burning and vehicular
emissions) to acute health impacts. I am also involved in developing and
deploying the next generation of air quality sensors to inform citizens on the
quality of the air they are breathing so that they can make informed decisions
to improve their air. My vision involves combining a multidisciplinary,
multicultural approach to research and education that brings together
researchers from around the world to collectively work together to make the
air cleaner.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Sternberg Family Professor of Civil & Environmental Engineering
  * Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering at Duke Kunshan
    University
  * Faculty Network Member of The Energy Initiative
  * Affiliate, Duke Global Health Institute
  * Member of the Duke Cancer Institute

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 127B Hudson Hall, Box 90287, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5209
  * **Email Address:** michael.bergin@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * bergin.pratt.duke.edu

## Education

  * Ph.D. Carnegie Mellon University, 1995

## Research Interests

Aerosols are generated by a variety of natural and anthropogenic sources. I am
interested in the processes that emit, transform and deposit particulate
matter. A current focus of my research is how particles in the atmosphere
directly modify the surface radiation balance of the Earth. This is of
importance to the climate of the Earth, as well as plant growth and
visibility. We have conducted studies at a variety of polluted urban sites as
well as pristine remote sites to understand the contrast between clean and
dirty locations. Another interest is the past impacts of aerosols on climate
through interpretation of paleorecords archived in ice cores. My work involves
a combination of lab and field studies as well as the development of
relatively simple mathematical models.

## Courses Taught

  * CEE 294: Research Independent Study in Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * CEE 493: Research Independent Study in Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * CEE 690: Advanced Topics in Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * CEE 692: Independent Study: Advanced Topics in Civil and Environmental
    Engineering
  * EGR 101L: Engineering Design and Communication
  * EGR 391: Projects in Engineering
  * MENG 550: Master of Engineering Internship/Project
  * MENG 551: Master of Engineering Internship/Project Assessment
  * MENG 552: Master of Engineering Supplemental Internship

## In the News

  * Six New Bass Fellows Honored for Excellence in Research and Outstanding
    Undergr…
  * AI Pinpoints Local Pollution Hotspots Using Satellite Images (Apr 23,
    2021)
  * Spotting Air Pollution with Satellites, Better Than Ever Before (Apr 22,
    2020 |…
  * Bedroom Air Filters Help Asthmatic Children Breathe Easier (Apr 9, 2020 |
    Nicho…
  * Pratt Undergrads Learn Fieldwork Methods by Examining Air and Water in
    China (S…
  * Seeking Solutions to Pollution, Duke, Indian Researchers Point to Need for
    Publ…
  * Duke Launches India Initiative with Talk on Air Pollution (Sep 21, 2017 |
    Duke …
  * As India's Climate Changes, Farmers In The North Experiment With New Crops
    (Aug…
  * Research From a New Point of View (May 22, 2017 | Duke Stories)
  * From Bolivia to India: Of Our Air, Our Environment and Our Health (Apr 28,
    2017…
  * Taking Air Quality Research to New Heights (Apr 29, 2016)
  * Engineering Professor Offers A Personal Approach to Addressing Climate
    Issues (…
  * Research and New Policies Protect the Lungs of India (Feb 9, 2015 | Duke
    Resear…
  * Michael Bergin: Studying Tiny Particles with a Giant Global Impact (Jan
    27, 201…

## Representative Publications

  * Ratnaparkhi, A., D. Dave, M. Valerino, M. Bergin, and C. Ghoroi.
    “Reduction in solar PV soiling loss using hydrophobic coating with and
    without dew suppression.” Solar Energy 253 (March 15, 2023): 332–42.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.solener.2023.02.047.
  * Ratnaparkhi, A., D. Dave, M. Valerino, M. Bergin, and C. Ghoroi.
    “Quantifying the accuracy of optical transmission loss techniques and
    identifying the best wavelengths for estimating soiling in a field study.”
    Solar Energy 252 (March 1, 2023): 391–400.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.solener.2023.02.005.
  * Norris, C. L., R. Edwards, C. Ghoroi, J. J. Schauer, M. Black, and M. H.
    Bergin. “A Pilot Study to Quantify Volatile Organic Compounds and Their
    Sources Inside and Outside Homes in Urban India in Summer and Winter
    during Normal Daily Activities.” Environments Mdpi 9, no. 7 (July 1,
    2022). https://doi.org/10.3390/environments9070075.
  * Rocha-Melogno, Lucas, Katherine C. Crank, Olivia Ginn, Michael H. Bergin,
    Joe Brown, Gregory C. Gray, Kerry A. Hamilton, Kyle Bibby, and Marc A.
    Deshusses. “Quantitative microbial risk assessment of outdoor aerosolized
    pathogens in cities with poor sanitation.” The Science of the Total
    Environment 827 (June 2022): 154233.
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2022.154233.
  * He, Linchen, Christina Norris, Xiaoxing Cui, Zhen Li, Karoline K.
    Barkjohn, Yanbo Teng, Lin Fang, et al. “Oral cavity response to air
    pollutant exposure and association with pulmonary inflammation and
    symptoms in asthmatic children.” Environmental Research 206 (April 2022):
    112275. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envres.2021.112275.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

