Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Tomasz Hueckel

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Tomasz Hueckel received his master's degree in civil engineering from the
University of Technology in Gdansk, Poland, in 1968, his Ph.D. in applied
mechanics from the Polish Academy of Sciences in Warsaw, in 1974, and the
D.Sc. in physical sciences from the University of Grenoble, France, in 1985.
He started his research career at the Polish Academy of Sciences in Warsaw,
then taught at the University of Rome and the University of Technology in
Milan before joining ISMES, a research institute in Bergamo, Italy, where he
was responsible for research on geomechanical aspects of nuclear waste
disposal in clays, a subject in which he continues to be strongly involved. He
came to Duke in 1987.

Dr. Hueckel's research interest is in theoretical soil mechanics, rock
mechanics, and environmental geomechanics, as well as in theory of plasticity.
His current projects deal with thermo-plasticity and chemo-plasticity of
clays, and in general in mechanics of materials composed of chemically
reacting solids and liquids. He is interested in fundamental aspects of soil
drying and cracking, and processes of soil aging and healing. The above
subjects involve mathematical modeling and model driven laboratory
experiments. He also is interested in basic aspects of theory of plasticity,
such as stability and localization. His research is applied to hydraulic geo-
barriers affected either by chemically hazardous liquids or nuclear waste
heat, to prediction of petroleum production induced compaction and subsidence,
as well as desiccation damage.

Dr. Hueckel is a co-founder and co-Editor-in Chief (2015) of ** _Geomechanics
for Energy and the Environment,_** an Elsevier journal. He has published also
in International Journal of Solids and Structures, International Journal of
Engineering Science, Pure and Applied Geophysics, Surveys in Geophysics,
Engineering Geology, Engineering Fracture Mechanics, International Journal of
Rock Mechanics and Mining Engineering, International Journal of Numerical and
Analytical Methods in Geomechanics, Computers and Geotechnics, International
Journal of Soils and Foundations, Journal de Mecanique, Canadian Geotechnical
Journal, Meccanica, Ingenieur- Archiv, and the ASCE Journal of Geotechnical
Engineering. He has also contributed to numerous books on the state of the
art. Dr. Hueckel is heavily involved in international research cooperation,
collaborating and co-authoring with Belgian, Italian, French, Polish, Spanish
and Swiss researchers. He is or was a member of the editorial board of the
Journal of Numerical and Analytical Methods in Geomechanics, the Archive of
Applied Mechanics and of the International Journal of Mechanics of Cohesive
and Frictional Materials, ASCE Journals of Geotechnical and Geoenvironmental
Engineering and ASCE International Journal of Geomechanics, Italian
Geotechnical Journal and Studia Geotechnica et Mechanica (Polish).

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * Faculty Network Member of The Energy Initiative

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** 164 Hudson Eng Ctr, Duke University, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5205
  * **Email Address:** hueckel@duke.edu
  * **Websites:**
    * http://www.duke.edu/~hueckel/

## Education

  * Ph.D. Polish Academy of Sciences, 1974
  * D.Sc. Grenoble Institute of Technology (France), 1985

## Research Interests

Mechanics of materials, theoretical soil mechanics, rock mechanics, theory of
plasticity, multi-physics processes in geomechanics, nuclear waste disposal,
energy and environmental geomechanics.

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Fellowship of Excellence for Visiting Professors and Researchers.
    Government of Catalonia, Spain. 2004
  * Fellowship. Fonds National de la Recherche Scientifique, Belgium. 2003
  * Fellowship. Swiss Federal Institute of Technology. 2002
  * Senior Resident Fellowship. Ministry of Research, Republic of France. 2000
  * Member. Chi Epsilon Engineering Honor Society. 1989
  * Award of the Secretary General. Polish Academy of Sciences. 1980
  * Fellow. Italian National Council of Research. 1977
  * Fellow. Italian National Council of Research. 1975
  * First Prize, Most Interesting Paper in Mechanics. Polish Association for
    Theoretical and Applied Mechanics. 1972
  * Scholarship (2 Years). Institute of Fundamental Technological Research,
    Polish Academy of Sciences. 1970

## Courses Taught

  * CEE 621: Plasticity
  * CEE 642: Environmental Geomechanics

## In the News

  * Tomasz Hueckel: A Pioneer in Environmental and Energy Geomechanics (Sep
    14, 201…

## Representative Publications

  * Chen, R., W. Lindqwister, T. Hueckel, and M. Veveakis. “An Experimental
    Study on Silt Desiccation Cracking with Different Basal Constraints and
    Various Humidity.” In Springer Series in Geomechanics and Geoengineering,
    144–54, 2023. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-22213-9_15.
  * Hueckel, T., B. Mielniczuk, A. Guével, and M. Veveakis. “Capillary Water
    in 2-D Drying—Cracking Sub-Grain Scale Soil Models: Dynamics and
    Instabilities of Haines Jumps.” Water Resources Research 58, no. 11
    (November 1, 2022). https://doi.org/10.1029/2022WR033246.
  * Mielniczuk, B., and T. Hueckel. “Capillary Water in 2-D Drying-Cracking
    Soil Sub-Grain Models: Morphology and Kinematics of Evaporation and Haines
    Jumps.” Water Resources Research 58, no. 9 (September 1, 2022).
    https://doi.org/10.1029/2022WR031938.
  * Hueckel, T., and L. Laloui. “Geomechanics for energy and the environment.”
    Geomechanics for Energy and the Environment 30 (June 1, 2022).
    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gete.2022.100355.
  * Guével, A., B. Mielniczuk, M. Veveakis, and T. Hueckel. “Life Expectancy
    of Evaporating Capillary Bridges Predicted by Tertiary Creep Modeling.”
    Frontiers in Mechanical Engineering 8 (April 7, 2022).
    https://doi.org/10.3389/fmech.2022.838501.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

