Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Zbigniew J. Kabala

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Faculty

Associate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

Born and raised behind the Iron Curtain, Dr. Zbigniew J. Kabala is a
naturalized United States citizen who cherishes the freedoms and opportunities
granted by this country. He earned his master's degree in civil engineering in
1980 from Poznan Polytechnic in Poznan, Poland, and master's degree in
mathematics in 1982 from A. Mickiewicz University in Poznan. At Princeton
University, he earned another master's and Ph.D. degrees in civil engineering
and operations research in 1985 and 1988, respectively. Next, Dr. Kabala held
one-year postdoctoral appointments at the MIT in the Ralph M. Parsons
Laboratory and at the UC-Berkeley in the Department of Soil Science. He was
then appointed an assistant professor of hydrology in the Department of Soils
and Environmental Sciences at the UC-Riverside. He joined the Duke faculty in
the summer of 1994.  
  

Dr. Kabala teaches currently the following courses: Fluid Mechanics, Advanced
Fluid Mechanics, and Groundwater Hydrology. He enjoys his interactions with
students in and outside of class. He has served as a faculty in residence
(FIR) in Southgate, Giles, and West House dormitories for a number of years.
Dr. Kabala also works with Pioneer Academics to mentor high school students
from around the world and recruit some of them to Duke. He is an avid member
of Toastmasters International and a sponsor of the PRATTically Speaking
Toastmasters club in PRATT School of Engineering, where he hones his public
speaking skills and helps students and postdocs do the same.

Dr. Kabala follows politics with great passion and occasionally writes about
it. In his free time, he enjoys racquet and water sports, hiking, reading, and
listening to jazz.

## Appointments and Affiliations

  * Associate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering

## Contact Information

  * **Office Location:** CIEMAS 2467, Durham, NC 27708
  * **Office Phone:** (919) 660-5479
  * **Email Address:** zbigniew.kabala@duke.edu

## Education

  * M.S. Poznan Polytechnic (Poland), 1980
  * M.S. Princeton University, 1982
  * Ph.D. Princeton University, 1988

## Research Interests

Dr. Kabala's principal research interests cover stochastic and deterministic
theory of fluid flow and contaminant transport in saturated and unsaturated
heterogeneous porous media, theory of related measurements, field and
laboratory studies in subsurface hydrology, stochastic fields and processes,
numerical and analytical methods and sensitivity analysis. His current
research focuses on developing new measurement techniques for characterization
of porous media, recovering contaminant release histories from current plume
observations, and stochastic modeling of water and solute transport in
saturated and unsaturated heterogeneous formations.

## Awards, Honors, and Distinctions

  * Earl I. Brown II Outstanding Civil Engineering Faculty Award. Department
    of Civil & Environmental Engineering. 2005
  * Top 8 Most Downloaded Article. Advances in Water Resources. 2001

## Courses Taught

  * CEE 301L: Fluid Mechanics
  * CEE 494: Research Independent Study in Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * CEE 683: Groundwater Hydrology and Contaminant Transport
  * CEE 690: Advanced Topics in Civil and Environmental Engineering

## Representative Publications

  * Wang, A. X. G., and Z. J. Kabala. “Body Morphology and Drag in Swimming:
    CFD Analysis of the Effects of Differences in Male and Female Body Types.”
    Fluids 7, no. 10 (October 1, 2022). https://doi.org/10.3390/fluids7100332.
  * Kabala, Z. J. “Comment on “Tu et al., An Analytical Solution of
    Groundwater Flow in a Confined Aquifer With a Single Well Circulation
    System, Water Resources Research, First Published: 12 June 2020.”.” Water
    Resources Research 57, no. 4 (April 1, 2021).
    https://doi.org/10.1029/2020WR029021.
  * Kahler, D. M., and Z. J. Kabala. “Erratum: Acceleration of groundwater
    remediation by rapidly pulsed pumping: Laboratory column tests (Journal of
    Environmental Engineering (United States) DOI:
    10.1061/(ASCE)EE.1943-7870.0001479).” Journal of Environmental Engineering
    (United States) 145, no. 3 (March 1, 2019).
    https://doi.org/10.1061/(ASCE)EE.1943-7870.0001540.
  * Kahler, D. M., and Z. J. Kabala. “Acceleration of groundwater remediation
    by deep sweeps and vortex ejections induced by rapidly pulsed pumping.”
    Water Resources Research 52, no. 5 (May 1, 2016): 3930–40.
    https://doi.org/10.1002/2015WR017157.
  * Krug, C. T., and Z. Kabala. “Vadose zone transport of nitrate in the
    sierra pelona groundwater basin, Agua Dulce, California.” Proceedings of
    World Environmental and Water Resources Congress 2009 World Environmental
    and Water Resources Congress 2009: Great Rivers 342 (October 26, 2009):
    1814–23. https://doi.org/10.1061/41036(342)181.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

