

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2016

# Hacking for the Future of Medicine: Healthcare Hackathon Takes Duke

April 27, 2016 | Claudia Dantoin

The Triangle Health Innovation Challenge brought together a diverse group of
participants prepared to take on some of the toughest healthcare challenges

## INNOVATION. EFFICIENCY. SOLUTION-BUILDING.

These are some of the words heard surrounding the inaugural healthcare
hackathon that took place in September 2015 at the Duke University Trent
Semans Center for Health Education. Headlined as the Triangle Health
Innovation Challenge, or THInC, a joint effort between Duke’s School of
Medicine Innovation and Entrepreneurship Activity Group and the Carolina
Health Entrepreneurship Initiative, this event brought together a diverse
group of participants prepared to take on some of the toughest healthcare
challenges.

For two days, teams moved through the process of identifying problems,
crafting solutions and pitching them to various industry leaders in
biotechnology. Even with less than 48 hours to complete it all, anything was
possible.

## A New Kind of Hackathon

Pizza boxes scattered around the room. Developers typing furiously into their
keyboards. Even at 3 a.m., the midnight oil is still burning. These are the
images typically associated with the word “hackathon.” Yet these are also
images conspicuously absent from the incredible yet unique work that was
performed over the THInC weekend. The brainchild of Tanmay Gokhale, a current
MD/PhD candidate at the Duke School of Medicine and Pratt School of
Engineering, this design challenge was crafted with the idea of fostering
collaboration and future development work in a meaningful way.

According to Gokhale, the model for this challenge came from hearing about a
similar experience hosted by Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)
graduate student Lina Colucci (P’12). She had recently organized a similar
event at MIT aimed at resolving various “pain points”—unsolved problems in
healthcare. After Colucci delivered a talk at Duke in February 2015 around
this topic, Gokhale began to brainstorm.

“I knew that there was so much opportunity to continue this work here at
Duke,” said Gokhale. “I wanted to help foster similar experiences with as much
of a potential for future collaboration as possible, even within the scope of
just one weekend.”

With this goal in mind, Gokhale set to work, reaching out to members of the
Duke community and beyond, gauging interest and determining the scope of the
project.

“It became evident,” said Gokhale, “that this project could really have some
lasting impact. The Triangle area is so full of amazing talent in the
biomedical and biotechnology space, that if we just brought them all into the
same room, the results produced would be tremendous.”

True to this prediction, by the time of hackathon weekend the event promised
to showcase the Triangle’s best and brightest minds. The final organization
spanned the three major academic institutions in the area—Duke, UNC and NC
State—encompassing “a variety of academic and professional disciplines…
everything from the engineering and design talent at NC State, the UNC medical
and pharmacy strength, and Duke business, engineering, and medical interests.”

With a wide variety of ages and experience, and participants ranging from
undergraduates to faculty and staff, the event promised to be much more than
simply a room full of empty pizza boxes.

## Let’s Talk About Healthcare

48 Hours of Hacking for Innovation

Day one of THInC opened with infinite possibility. With over 127 participants
from all three participating academic institutions as well as those in
industry, the potential for collaboration and the excitement in the Trent
Semans Center at Duke was electric. Agenda item number one was to pitch the
various “pain points” that participants wanted to fix, with only 60 seconds to
convince others that their idea deserved a remedy that weekend. Without any
prior team formation, all participants had an equal opportunity to find other
like-minded individuals with which they could collaborate; once again,
creating the space for thoughtful teamwork amongst the Triangle area’s
brightest and most talented.

More than 40 pain points later, the participants now faced a difficult
challenge: choosing a problem and attempting to brainstorm a solution. Round
two of the pitches would involve each of the newly formed teams again coming
to the front of the room and explaining their solution to the previously
identified problem. With no slides, a fledgling idea and another 60 seconds,
these teams, now narrowed to 25 solution ideas, attempted to explain why their
ideas merited being built.

With ideas ranging from creating a better way for those with chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) to breathe easier, to others that helped
increase efficiency in the waiting room, the diversity of topics and the
potential solutions that followed only served to highlight the incredible
potential that the weekend would offer.

From these solution pitches came the first of many audience interactions. As
Gokhale noted, “We are all members of the healthcare community in some way. It
only made sense to make this as much of a group event as possible.”

True to this mission, the audience became the “review board” for all of the
ideas. In the end, audience members narrowed down the ideas to 15 that were
chosen to make it through to the end of the weekend.

However, the collaborative nature of the competition did not end there. Over
the course of the less than 48 hours that teams had to design, build and
prepare to present their device to the judges, more than 30 area experts and
mentors were brought in to help the teams with various aspects of their
projects. Mentors in everything from hardware, wearables and cloud-computing
to product marketing and sales were brought in to help guide the teams in
crafting a full end-to-end experience that could be pitched in a limited
timeframe and also show the judges a product with potential for further
exploration and investment. With ready resources, many cups of coffee and
excitement in the air, the teams set to work.

## The Finish Line in Sight

Pitching an Idea, a Solution and an Investment in the Future

In the end, the pitches, taking various forms and solving various solutions,
came together on the Sunday afternoon of the hackathon for three-minute
presentations aimed at impressing the judges, whose job it was to identify the
most innovative solution to each of the pain points selected Judging criteria
came down to five categories:

  * **Impact—** if the team had defined the problem they were attempting to
    solve well
  * **Execution—** if the solution was novel and had the potential to be
    viable in the marketplace
  * **Business Plan—** if the team was able to articulate how they planned to
    sell and scale the product
  * **The Pitch—** if the pitch touched on all relevant questions and showed
    some polish, and
  * **Team Dynamic** —whether the team was composed of a diverse enough group
    of talent that the problem could be solved from various angles.

With such high standards set, the teams made their final pitches for how each
of their solutions was the most innovative and well-rounded to their
particular problem. Each of the teams was then given two minutes for a
question-and-answer session with the judges, who analyzed each of the
solutions as serious contenders as solutions from all angles.

Overseeing the incredible challenge set before participants, the judges
spanned a variety of disciplines and backgrounds. P. Kay Wagoner, PhD,
entrepreneur-in-residence at the UNC Eshelman School of Pharmacy; Bobby
Bahram, MBA, an executive in the biotechnology space; and Eric Poon, MD, chief
health information officer for Duke Health, were the three judges tasked with
finding the very best of the bunch. This was no small task.

After the two-day marathon was complete, one team emerged victorious, taking
the $4,000 cash prize intended as seed money for the budding group. With a
simple yet comprehensive pitch for a wearable device designed to help those
with physical therapy regimes to stay on track and accountable, while also
informing them whether they were doing their exercises safely and effectively,
the group stole the show and snagged the coveted first-place prize.

## Moving Forward More Solutions to Explore

While the inaugural healthcare hackathon may be over, there are plenty more
opportunities to help improve the “pain points” of healthcare.

“We see this as becoming an annual event,” said Gokhale. “We realized that
people coming together like this need that initial push to get started. Here,
we bring together everything, creating our own healthcare incubator.”

Though there may always be a pain point or two in the future of healthcare,
looking at events like THInC begins to ask the audience whether or not they
could find a solution as well. All it takes is an idea and 60 seconds to show
others the path to explore how a “pain point” becomes nothing more than an
opportunity to innovate.

_Claudia Dantoin is a junior exploring the possibilities of engineering
changes in healthcare. She is also an editor for the DukEngineer Magazine._

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2016

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

