

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media » DukEngineer Magazine » DukEngineer Magazine 2016

# Bleeding Duke Blue: Supercomputing and the Cardiovascular System

April 27, 2016 | Samuel James

Amanda Randles has been pioneering the use of supercomputing to solve
biomedical problems

When Amanda Randles was finishing her bachelor’s degree at Duke, the most
powerful supercomputer in the world was BlueGene/L. The computer had a maximal
achieved performance of 280.6 tera- FLOPS (28 trillion simple operations) per
second, and Durham was better known for its crime rate than its food. Just
over a decade later, Randles has returned to Duke as an assistant professor of
biomedical engineering with a much improved city at her doorstep and superior
supercomputing technology at her fingertips.

After graduating with a dual degree in physics and computer science, Randles
worked at IBM developing the BlueGene supercomputing project. After three
years on the project, she went to Harvard University, where she received her
master’s degree in computer science and a doctorate in applied physics. She
then moved on to become a Lawrence Fellow at the Lawrence Livermore National
Laboratory (LLNL).

Since then, Randles has been pioneering the use of supercomputing to solve
biomedical problems. Until recently, supercomputers were used almost
exclusively by physicists and the military, but researchers like Randles noted
that when it came to biomedical challenges, “There was so much data available,
but not enough to do with it.”

Using her extensive experience with supercomputing, Randles developed
algorithms for high-performance supercomputers that can process the data from
MRI and CT scans to generate hemodynamics models with the potential to
revolutionize the way medical solutions are applied to individual patients.

Randles takes advantage of high-performance supercomputing to simulate blood
flow in the human vascular system. Her lab uses the Blue Gene/Q supercomputers
at LLNL. The latest results were from Sequoia, a parallel, load-balancing
system with a maximal achieved performance of over 16.32 petaFLOPS per second.
That’s over 58 times the speed of the fastest supercomputer when she graduated
from Duke in 2005.

This massive computing power allows Randles to model patient- specific blood
flow in large regions of the vasculature. By simulating flow at the scale of
red blood cells, the 3-D simulation has the potential to accurately predict
the movement of metastasizing cancer cells in the bloodstream. It also has the
potential to identify areas at risk for plaque buildup and indicate the most
efficient surgical options.

## ****The Duke Difference

While it’s true that Randles bled Duke Blue as an undergraduate, she
ultimately decided to return because of the unique relationship between Pratt
and the doctors at Duke Medicine.

“Doctors actually come to my office,” says Randles. “That’s unheard-of at most
other places.”

And doctors have good reason to pay attention to Randles’s research. The
algorithms she’s developing can be applied on a case-by-case basis, creating
unique, patient-specific models to help doctors provide the most efficient and
effective care possible. It will be a few more years before the research is
ready to be implemented, but 3-D printed models are already proving the
validity of the simulations.

The close relationship between engineers at Pratt and doctors at the medical
campus is a trademark of the biomedical engineering (BME) department at Duke.
Randles, like other BME faculty, is a leader in creating novel engineering
solutions to important healthcare problems. She was recently named one of five
finalists for the Gordon Bell Prize in High-Performance Computing.

The Gordon Bell Prize recognizes the extraordinary progress made each year in
the innovative application of parallel computing to challenges in science,
engineering and large-scale data analytics. It is considered an honor to be
selected as a finalist for the prize, with hundreds of papers submitted for
consideration. This is the second time Randles has been a finalist for the
prize, the first being in 2010.

## Supercomputing the Future

Returning to Duke after a 10- year hiatus has been an interesting experience
for Randles.

“When I was a student, there were far fewer restaurant options and you
typically went into downtown Durham only for Duke-sponsored events. Safety was
also a concern,” says Randles. “Now downtown Durham is this really cool place.
It’s definitely gotten a lot nicer. And the football team is actually winning
games now, which hardly happened when I was here.”

As Duke and Durham grow and evolve, so does supercomputing. In 10 years, the
Durham Performing Arts Center, American Tobacco Campus and amazing restaurants
have turned Durham into a vibrant city. Meanwhile, the maximal achieved
performance of the fastest supercomputer has increased by 5000 percent.

Randles’s research is already breaking ground, but with the current generation
of supercomputers, only small regions of the cardiovascular system can be
modeled. The scale of her research is limited by the technology available.

“We need bigger, better supercomputers to model the entirety of the vascular
system,” says Randles. “And those won’t exist for another decade or so.”

In the meantime, she has plenty to keep her busy, as her current work focuses
on making the red blood cells in the simulation deformable to make a more
true-to-life model. However, the ultimate goal of Randles’s research is to
provide doctors with patient-specific tools to diagnose, treat and study
cardiovascular diseases.

In 10 more years, supercomputers could be the cornerstone of modern medicine,
a shining example of the importance of biomedical engineering as an
intersection of engineering and medicine.

_Samuel James is a freshman majoring in biomedical engineering._

## Publications

  * Duke Engineering Magazine
  * DukEngineer Magazine
  * Duke BME Magazine
  * Duke CEE Magazine
  * Duke ECE Magazine
  * Data & The Duke Engineer
  * Inspiring Engineers
  * The Duke Engineering PhD

## From DukEngineer Magazine 2016

Explore the entire magazine

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

