

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Graduate » Diversity, Equity & Inclusion

# Graduate Student Recruiting Incentives

The Duke's Pratt School of Engineering offers packages of fellowships,
scholarships, and incentives to PhD and master's degree students from
underrepresented groups, including women and persons with disabilities.

## Application Fee Waiver

We do not want finances to be a barrier to any student applying to Duke. To
encourage diversity, **we will waive the application fee** for students who—by
reason of their background, culture, socioeconomic status, race, ethnicity,
work, and life experiences—contribute to a fuller representation of
perspectives within the academic life of the university.

### Send Us a Request

Doctoral (PhD)

Master's Degree

## Dean's Graduate Fellowships

The Dean’s Graduate Fellowships are provided to students who—by reason of
their background, culture, socioeconomic status, race, ethnicity, work, and
life experiences—contribute to a fuller representation of perspectives within
the academic life of the University.

The fellowship provides stipends, tuition remission and fee coverage.

To the 12-month stipend of the first two years of study, the **Pratt School of
Engineering provides a third year of full stipend**.

### Who is eligible?

The Graduate School’s commitment to promoting and benefiting from diversity
leads it to encourage nominations of students who are black/African American,
American Indian/Alaskan native, and Hispanic/Latino Americans. All nominees
must be US citizens.

Incoming students are nominated by their department; no direct application is
necessary.

More information

## Sloan Scholarships

In addition to the standard Duke PhD support package, each Sloan Scholar
receives **$40,000 in supplemental funding** over five years in support of
academic progress and enrichment.

Sloan Scholars also take part in a series of workshops, symposia, lunches, and
periodic check-ins throughout their time at Duke. These events are designed to
help Sloan Scholars fully integrate into the Duke community, empowering them
to successfully complete their education and launch into their careers.
Scholars will also have the benefit of guidance from designated faculty
champions from their own departments, who will help them navigate graduate
school.

### Who is eligible?

Sloan Scholarships are awarded to students who are U.S. citizens AND have been
offered admission to a participating Duke PhD program — **which includes
doctoral programs in the Pratt School of Engineering.**

Each year, the PhD programs nominate newly admitted students as candidates for
the scholarship. Students who are chosen for a Sloan Scholarship will be
notified of this at the time they receive their offer of admission to Duke.

Learn more

## Diversity Scholarships

Financial aid is available to highly qualified candidates for Master of
Science (MS) and Master of Engineering (MEng), through academic scholarships
with an emphasis on increasing diversity within our master's degree programs.

Underrepresented minorities may receive up to **50 percent per year in tuition
scholarship** through our Diversity Scholarships. Additionally, up to $10,000
per year may be allocated for the student to gain experience in a research
setting under the direction of a principal investigator (PI).

Contact us for more details.

Contact Us

## Competitive Research Fellowships

We help students identify appropriate competitively awarded external research
fellowships, and work with them to develop strong proposals.

While students can apply at any time, most students begin to apply after their
first full year of coursework. Receiving an external fellowship bestows
prestige on you—as well as on Duke—for being identified as one of the nation’s
top scholars.

More details

## Contact

### Nan Jokerst

**Associate Dean, Faculty Affairs and Community Engagement**

919-660-5503

nan.jokerst@duke.edu

### Karis Boyd-Sinkler

**Director of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion in Engineering**

919-660-2939

karis.boydsinkler@duke.edu

### Quiana Tyson

**Assistant Director, DEI Programs and Initiatives**

919-660-5263

quiana.morton@duke.edu

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Graduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 27, 2023 | Duke Interdisciplinary Studies

### Visualizing Hidden Risks

March 14, 2023

### The Unseen, Drawn into Focus

View all graduate news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

