Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Overview
      2. Degree Programs
        1. BSE Degree Planning
        2. ME/BME Double Major
        3. Certificates
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's
        5. Courses

      3. For Applicants
        1. Why Duke MEMS?
        2. Where Our Students Go
        3. Enrollment and Graduation Rates

      4. For Current Students
        1. Awards & Honors
        2. Graduation with Distinction
        3. Independent Study
        4. Senior Design

  * Master's
    *       1. Earn Your Master's at Duke
      2. Admissions
      3. Degrees
        1. Master of Science
        2. Master of Engineering

      4. Concentrations
      5. Certificates
        1. Aerospace Graduate Certificate

      6. Courses
      7. Career Outcomes
      8. Life at Duke
      9. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    *       1. Earn Your PhD at Duke
      2. PhD Admissions
      3. Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
      4. Courses
      5. Career Outcomes
      6. Meet Our PhD Students
      7. MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Aero
      3. Autonomy
      4. Bio
      5. Computing / AI
      6. Energy
      7. Soft / Nano
      8. Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    *       1. All Faculty
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Welcome to Duke MEMS
      2. Meet the Alstadt Chair
      3. Meet the Staff
      4. Facts & Stats
      5. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
      6. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Research News

      7. All Events
        1. Pearsall Lecture Series
        2. Seminars

      8. Our History
      9. Driving Directions

# Life at Duke

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Masters

Our students work in a supportive, close-knit community of researchers and
scholars—but we know there is more to life than work.

## Live in the vibrant RESEARCH TRIANGLE

During your time at Duke University you'll have access to our hometown's
lively community and to the dynamic Research Triangle Region, ranked #6 in
Best Places to Live by _U.S.News_.

Our region enjoys more than 220 days of sunshine a year. We boast an
affordable cost of living—cheaper than Boston, New York, Atlanta or
California.

More about Durham and the Research Triangle Region »

## Study on the Duke Campus

Duke provides a safe, supportive learning environment for each graduate
student—and their family:

Learn more about:

  * Housing and Dining
  * Health and Safety
  * Transportation and Parking
  * How We Help Students With Families

### Student Groups

Life outside the classroom and laboratory for our master's students is a
vibrant mix of professional opportunities and social interaction.

MEMS Graduate Student Committee

    The MEMS Graduate Student Committee works with the Director of Graduate Studies and the Graduate Program Coordinator to recruit, educate and promote graduate students within the Duke Department of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science. 

##### Examples of Committee Activities

  * Weekly MEMS graduate student newsletter
  * Social: Bowling, Rooftop Bar
  * Outreach: Durham Women’s Shelter, Habitat for Humanity, voter
    registration, Carolina Tiger Rescue
  * Graduate seminar series
  * Outings and activities: Baseball Games, rock climbing, soccer, flag
    football

View calendar of events  Meet the committee

Other Student Groups

    

Duke Engineering graduate students are represented by an inclusive student
government, which organizes student events and community outreach activities.

As a graduate student at Duke, you'll have the opportunity to join a number of
campus-wide student groups focused on personal and professional development.

More About Student Groups

### Welcome for International Students

As a globally-renowned university, Duke attracts students from around the
world to its graduate degree programs. We are committed to making the
transition to living, studying and working at Duke as smooth as possible.

The information and links below will help you understand how Duke makes
international students welcome.

International House

    

Duke’s International House serves Duke's global community on campus.

During the summer, International hosts virtual online sessions to help new
students plan their transitions. Closer to the beginning of the academic year,
International House holds a Resource Fair and Orientation for international
students, which includes an especially helpful session on academic integrity
and differences in the style of courses in American universities. Throughout
the year, the house provides advice and support to international students and
offers extensive cross-cultural information and training to enhance the
mission of the university.

International House is located at 300 Alexander Avenue on Duke's Central
Campus.

English for International Students

    

The mission of Duke's English for International Students program is to provide
English-language instruction and support to international graduate students at
Duke.

Through offering courses and other resources in writing, oral communication,
presentations, pronunciation, and grammar as well as training for new
international teaching assistants, the program prepares students for success
in social, professional, and academic settings.

Wellness Services & Medical Insurance

    

Duke Student Health Services provides information on adequate medical
insurance plans that international students should obtain, as well as details
on the services and facilities available to all Duke students at the state-of-
the-art Student Wellness Center.

## Diversity and Inclusion

Diversity and inclusion make for better engineers—and a better experience for
engineering students.

That’s why Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering embraces diversity and inclusion
in the classroom and in the laboratory—whether that’s racial, ethnic, sexual
or gender diversity. Learn more about our commitment to diversity and
inclusion and MEMS-specific diversity, equity, inclusion and community
Committee and activities.

Duke Engineering offers many opportunities for underrepresented minorities,
from student groups to fellowships, to recruiting incentives, to events and
activities that celebrate the diversity of our entire community.

  * Graduate Recruiting Incentives
  * Diversity-Focused Groups for Grad Students
  * Diversity & Inclusion Event Calendar

## Master's Contacts

### George Delagrammatikas

Professor of the Practice and Director of Master's Studies

__919-660-5346

__george.delagrammatikas@duke.edu

### Shauntil Gray

Director of Master's Studies Assistant

__919-660-5310

__shauntil.gray@duke.edu

Contact Admissions

____

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Overview
    * Degree Programs
      * BSE Degree Planning
      * ME/BME Double Major
      * Certificates
        * Aerospace Engineering
        * Energy & the Environment
        * Materials Science & Engineering
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
      * Courses
    * For Applicants
      * Why Duke MEMS?
      * Where Our Students Go
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
    * For Current Students
      * Awards & Honors
      * Graduation with Distinction
      * Independent Study
      * Senior Design
  * Master's
    * Earn Your Master's at Duke
    * Admissions
    * Degrees
      * Master of Science
      * Master of Engineering
    * Concentrations
    * Certificates
      * Aerospace Graduate Certificate
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Life at Duke
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * PhD
    * Earn Your PhD at Duke
    * PhD Admissions
    * Certificates, Fellowships & Training Programs
    * Courses
    * Career Outcomes
    * Meet Our PhD Students
    * MEMS Graduate Student Committee
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Aero
    * Autonomy
    * Bio
    * Computing / AI
    * Energy
    * Soft / Nano
    * Research Facilities
  * Faculty
    * All Faculty
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Welcome to Duke MEMS
    * Meet the Alstadt Chair
    * Meet the Staff
    * Facts & Stats
    * Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Community
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Research News
    * All Events
      * Pearsall Lecture Series
      * Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

