

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » Graduate » PhD Programs

# Apply for Research Fellowships

We encourage our students to apply for these prestigious scholarships

The Pratt School of Engineering encourages our graduate students to apply for
competitively awarded research fellowships.

In addition to extra training, resources and career-building opportunities, a
fellowship identifies as a student as top scholar, and bestows a measure of
honor and recognition.

  * Meet Duke Engineering's recent research fellowship recipients »
  * Duke Research Fellowships »
  * External Research Fellowships »

## Duke Research Fellowships

### Sloan Scholarships

In addition to the standard Duke PhD support package, each Sloan Scholar
receives **$40,000 in supplemental funding** over five years in support of
academic progress and enrichment.

Sloan Scholars also take part in a series of workshops, symposia, lunches, and
periodic check-ins throughout their time at Duke. These events are designed to
help Sloan Scholars fully integrate into the Duke community, empowering them
to successfully complete their education and launch into their careers.
Scholars will also have the benefit of guidance from designated faculty
champions from their own departments, who will help them navigate graduate
school.

#### Who is eligible?

Sloan Scholarships are awarded to students who are U.S. citizens AND have been
offered admission to a participating Duke PhD program— **which includes
doctoral programs in the Pratt School of Engineering.**

Each year, the PhD programs nominate newly admitted students as candidates for
the scholarship. Students who are chosen for a Sloan Scholarship will be
notified of this at the time they receive their offer of admission to Duke.

Learn more

### Dean's Graduate Fellowships

Fellowships provided by the Dean of The Graduate School are provided to
students who—by reason of their background, culture, socioeconomic status,
race, ethnicity, work, and life experiences—contribute to a fuller
representation of perspectives within the academic life of the university.

The fellowship provides stipends, tuition remission and fee coverage.

To the 12-month stipend of the first two years of study, the Pratt School of
Engineering **provides a third year of full stipend**.

#### Who is eligible?

The Graduate School’s commitment to promoting and benefiting from diversity
leads it to encourage nominations of students who are black/African American,
American Indian/Alaskan native, and Hispanic/Latino Americans. All nominees
must be US citizens.

Incoming students are nominated by their department; no direct application is
necessary.

More information

### More Opportunities at Duke

  * Browse a list of graduate student funding opportunities at Duke maintained
    by The Graduate School »
  * Search the database of graduate funding opportunities maintained by Duke's
    Office of Research Support »
  * Read a constantly updated list of new Duke and external funding
    opportunities on a website dedicated to Duke Graduate Students »

* * *

## External Research Fellowships

Duke Engineering helps PhD students to develop strong proposals to
competitively awarded external research fellowships.

Most students begin to apply after their first full year of coursework.

To find a program, see the constantly updated list of list of national
competitive scholarships for graduate students compiled by the Duke Office of
University Scholars & Fellows (OUSF) and visit the Duke OUSF website. Plus,
check the constantly updated list of new Duke and external funding
opportunities on a website dedicated to Duke Graduate Students.

Also, click below for links to current information about a selection of major
external scholarship programs related to the study of engineering.

### US Government-Funded Fellowships

  * **National Science Foundation (NSF) Programs: Division of Graduate
    Education** —Browse all NSF Graduate Fellowship Programs
  * **U.S. Department of Defense Science, Mathematics, and Research for
    Transformation (SMART) Scholarship Program—**Visit the DoD SMART website
  * **National Defense Science & Engineering Graduate Fellowship**—Visit the
    NDSEG website
  * **U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), Office of Science Graduate Student
    Research (SCGSR) Program** —Visit the SCGSR program website
  * **DOE Computational Science Graduate Fellowship** —Visit the DOE CSGF
    website

### Fellowships for Underrepresented Students

  * **NSF Fellowship: Graduate Research Diversity Supplements** —Contact GRS
    coordinators
  * **UNCF Scholarships & Fellowships**—Search the database at
    scholarships.uncf.org
  * **Ford Foundation Fellowship Programs** —See factsheets for the
    Predoctoral Fellowship and Dissertation Fellows
  * **Xerox Technical Minority Scholarships** —Download the Xerox scholarship
    application

### Private Merit-Based Fellowships

  * **IBM Academic Fellowship Awards** —Browse information and applications
    for PhD students
  * **Hertz Foundation Fellowship** —Learn more and apply at the Hertz
    Foundation website

​

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

  * Quick Facts & Statistics
  * More about Student Services & Amenities
  * Meet Engineering PhD Alumni

Read Brochure

## Graduate Student News

March 27, 2023

### Duke Engineering Students Flex Their Leadership Muscles

March 27, 2023 | Duke Interdisciplinary Studies

### Visualizing Hidden Risks

March 14, 2023

### The Unseen, Drawn into Focus

View all graduate news

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

