

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » Events Calendar

# [CANCELLED] CANCELED: MEMS SEMINAR: Piezoelectric Films for
Microelectromechanical Systems

Mar 15

_This event has passed._

##

Wednesday, March 15, 2023 - 12:00pm to 1:00pm

## Presenter

Susan Trolier-Mckinstry ( Penn State)

Abstract: Piezoelectric thin films are of increasing interest in low voltage
microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) for sensing, actuation, and energy
harvesting. This seminar will discuss how materials are optimized for these
applications, as well as examples of the use of piezoelectric films over a
wide range of length scales. The key figures of merit for actuators and energy
harvesting will be discussed, with emphasis on how to achieve these on
practical substrates. For example, control of the domain structure of the
ferroelectric material allows the energy harvesting figure of merit for the
piezoelectric layer to be increased by factors of 4 - 10. Likewise, control of
crystallographic orientation and substrate clamping enables large increases in
the figure of merit for actuators. To illustrate the functionality of these
films, examples of integration into MEMS structures will also be discussed,
including miniaturized ultrasound systems for imaging and particle
manipulation, low frequency and non-resonant piezoelectric energy harvesting
devices, and piezoelectronic transistors as a potential replacement for CMOS
electronics. Susan Trolier-McKinstry is an Evan Pugh University Professor and
Steward S. Flaschen Professor of Ceramic Science and Engineering, and
Professor of Electrical Engineering. Her main research interests include thin
films for dielectric and piezoelectric applications. She directs both the
Center for Dielectrics and Piezoelectrics and the Center for Three-Dimensional
Ferroelectric Microelectronics. She is a member of the National Academy of
Engineering, a fellow of the American Ceramic Society, IEEE, and the Materials
Research Society, and an academician of the World Academy of Ceramics. She
currently serves as an associate editor for Applied Physics Letters. She was
2017 President of the Materials Research Society; previously she served as
president of the IEEE Ultrasonics, Ferroelectrics and Frequency Control
Society, as well as Keramos. Host: Tony Jun Huang

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

