

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » Events Calendar

# MEMS SEMINAR: The Future of Governing Equations

Apr 12

##

Wednesday, April 12, 2023 - 12:00pm to 1:00pm

Fitzpatrick Center Schiciano Auditorium Side B, room 1466

Add to calendar »

## Presenter

Nathan Kutz

Abstract: A major challenge in the study of dynamical systems is that of model
discovery: turning data into reduced order models that are not just
predictive, but provide insight into the nature of the underlying dynamical
system that generated the data. We introduce a number of data-driven
strategies for discovering nonlinear multiscale dynamical systems and their
embeddings from data. We consider two canonical cases: (i) systems for which
we have full measurements of the governing variables, and (ii) systems for
which we have incomplete measurements. For systems with full state
measurements, we show that the recent sparse identification of nonlinear
dynamical systems (SINDy) method can discover governing equations with
relatively little data and introduce a sampling method that allows SINDy to
scale efficiently to problems with multiple time scales, noise and parametric
dependencies. For systems with incomplete observations, we show that the
Hankel alternative view of Koopman (HAVOK) method, based on time-delay
embedding coordinates and the dynamic mode decomposition, can be used to
obtain a linear models and Koopman invariant measurement systems that nearly
perfectly captures the dynamics of nonlinear quasiperiodic systems. Neural
networks are used in targeted ways to aid in the model reduction process.
Together, these approaches provide a suite of mathematical strategies for
reducing the data required to discover and model nonlinear multiscale systems.
Nathan Kutz is the Yasuko Endo and Robert Bolles Professor of Applied
Mathematics and Electrical and Computer Engineering and Director of the AI
Institute in Dynamic Systems at the University of Washington, having served as
chair of applied mathematics from 2007-2015. He received the BS degree in
physics and mathematics from the University of Washington in 1990 and the Phd
in applied mathematics from Northwestern University in 1994. He was a postdoc
in the applied and computational mathematics program at Princeton University
before taking his faculty position. He has a wide range of interests,
including neuroscience to fluid dynamics where he integrates machine learning
with dynamical systems and control. Host: Dr. Boyuan Chen

## Contact

Gray, Shauntil  
919-660-5310  
shauntil.gray@duke.edu

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

