

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » Events Calendar

# MEMS SEMINAR: Plenty of Room at the Top: From Molecular to Macroscopic
Chemical Patterning of Hard and Soft Materials

Apr 5

##

Wednesday, April 5, 2023 - 12:00pm to 1:00pm

Fitzpatrick Center Schiciano Auditorium Side B, room 1466

Add to calendar »

## Presenter

Shelley Claridge ( Purdue University)

Abstract: Many problems in modern materials chemistry require highly
structured chemical environments at near-molecular scales, integrated into
larger micro-to-macroscopic constructs - ranging from nanoelectronics to
ligand clustering in biology. However, approaches that are successful at
achieving molecular-scale control are often difficult to extend across length
scales, or into challenging chemically heterogeneous environments required for
real function. Here, we describe a surprisingly robust and scalable route to
achieve nm-to-macroscopic chemical patterning of materials based on
amphiphilic striped phases, which can be assembled on graphite, graphene,
MoS2, and other 2D materials. Recently, we have also demonstrated that these
patterns can be assembled on hard, crystalline 2D materials, then transferred
to soft, amorphous materials including PDMS and hydrogels. The transferred
surface layer of fully extended, relatively rigid polydiacetylenes with
functional headgroups confers both chemical and mechanical function, creating
new opportunities for nanostructured material design in biology and wearable
electronics. We will discuss the relationship between structure, assembly, and
reactivity in the molecular template layer, as well as applications of the
templates in directing the assembly of high-aspect-ratio inorganic
nanocrystals and in designed cell scaffolds for regenerative medicine. Shelley
Claridge received undergraduate degrees in mathematics and biochemistry from
Texas A&M University, and subsequently worked as a software engineer for six
years prior to completing a Ph.D. at UC Berkeley with Paul Alivisatos and Jean
Fréchet. After a postdoctoral fellowship with Paul Weiss at UCLA, she joined
the faculty at Purdue University in 2013, and was promoted to Associate
Professor with tenure in 2019. Her research at Purdue has been recognized with
Young Investigator awards from NSF, DARPA (2017 Young Faculty Award and 2019
DARPA Director's Fellowship),NIH (Trailblazer), 3M, and DuPont (one of 8
globally in 2016), and most recently the Schmidt Science Polymaths Award (one
of 10 globally across STEM fields). Work from her group has also been the
subject of 7 granted patents and 6 additional pending patent applications to
date. Host: Christine Payne

## Contact

Gray, Shauntil  
919-660-5310  
shauntil.gray@duke.edu

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

