

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » Events Calendar

# MEMS SEMINAR: Soft Robotics using Shape Memory Materials for Wearable
Technology Applications

Mar 29

_This event has passed._

##

Wednesday, March 29, 2023 - 12:00pm to 1:00pm

## Presenter

Bradley Holschuh ( University of Minnesota)

ABSTRACT: Dr. Holschuh will discuss recent advancements, opportunities, and
challenges associated with wearable soft robotic systems. In particular, he
will focus on the use of shape memory materials as soft robotic actuators for
on-body robotic applications, and discuss actuator strategies, garment
integration architectures, and potential use cases, featuring ongoing work in
the UMN Wearable Technology Laboratory (WTL). DR. BRADLEY HOLSCHUH is an
Associate Professor of Apparel Design at the University of Minnesota, where he
serves as Co-Director of the Wearable Technology Laboratory (WTL) and Director
of Graduate Studies for the Human Factors and Ergonomics (HFE) graduate
program. He earned his BS ('07), dual MS ('10), and PhD ('14) degrees from the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where as a NASA Space Technology
Research Fellow (NSTRF) in the Man-Vehicle Laboratory (MVL) he researched
advanced materials for next generation space suits. At UMN, Dr. Holschuh's
research focuses on the use of wearable technology to improve human
performance both in space and on Earth, with a specific focus on integrating
active materials technology into wearable systems. His work encompasses
wearable technology, soft robotics, human factors design, textile engineering,
aerospace engineering / bioastronautics, and materials science. He holds the
additional title of UMN Distinguished University Teaching Professor and is a
member of the UMN Academy of Distinguished Teachers. Host: Dan Buckland

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

