

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » Events Calendar

# FIP Seminar Student Speaker Awardee: From Radiative to Nonradiative Mie-
tronics with the Topology of Light and Matter

Mar 29

_This event has passed._

##

Wednesday, March 29, 2023 - 12:00pm to 1:00pm

## Presenter

Hooman Barati Sedeh, PhD Candidate, ECE, Duke University

Structured light with an asymmetric phase distribution emerges as an enabling
tool to control the light-matter interactions in optical nanostructures. In
this work, we first investigate structured light interactions with the all-
dielectric meta-atoms of different geometries and aspect ratios and
demonstrate that the phase asymmetry of Laguerre-Gaussian (LG) beams of
various orders facilitates the excitation of higher-order radiative modes that
are not accessible via conventional Gaussian beam or plane wave as shown
schematically in Figure 1 (a). In particular, we show that the use of an LG
beam not only can excite the quadrupole moments within the designed nano-
resonators but can alter the strength of the induced moments. It is also
demonstrated that the geometry and orientation of the meta particles, as well
as the illumination angle of the LG beam, can strongly affect the magnitude
and spectral location of the induced radiative modes within the subwavelength
meta-atom. Figure 1. (a) Mie resonance manipulation using structured light
beams carrying an orbital angular momentum. By utilizing a spatial light
modulator to change the structural features of the incoming light beam, the
excited multipole moments within the meta-atom can be manipulated and turned
on and off on demand. (b) The formation of a non-radiating electric anapole
state as the result of destructive interference between electric and toroidal
dipoles. Figure 1. (a) Figure 1. (b) Next, we demonstrate the design of a
meta-atom that supports new non-radiative states, called anapoles, formed due
to the destructive interference between waves generated by certain multipoles,
as shown in Figure 1(b). While a majority of existing studies focused on the
electric anapoles, here we design and demonstrate an all-dielectric cuboid
meta-atom that support magnetic and hybrid anapoles that are formed due to the
overlap of electric and magnetic multipoles with their toroidal counterparts.
In addition, we demonstrate that with a careful design, such meta-atom can
support non-radiative states up to quadrupole moments. We also show that
various anapole orders can be excited and manipulated by changing the angle of
illumination. Furthermore, by changing the topology of the cuboid meta-atom to
a pyramid particle, we demonstrate the satisfaction of different Kerker's
condition, such as unidirectional scattering, and the establishment of
superscattering regime.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

