

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » Events Calendar

# CBTE Kewaunee Lecture: Designer Nanocarriers for Cancer Therapy

Apr 6

##

Thursday, April 6, 2023 - 12:00pm to 6:00pm

Penn Pavilion

Add to calendar »

## Presenter

Keynote: Dr. Paula Hammond, Institute Professor and Department Head of
Chemical Engineering, Koch Institute of Integrative Cancer Research,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)

One of the challenges of nanomedicine is determining sets of design rules that
dictate where nanoparticles localize in the body, and the targeting of
specific organs or cell types. Electrostatic assembly provides a route to
nanomaterials that enable a broad range of surface chemistries that can be
designed for targeting disease, while incorporating a range of core
nanoparticle systems whose properties can be independently tuned. We have
developed a modular nanoparticle approach using core particles and layering
them with an electrostatic layer-by-layer (LBL) process in a simple and
elegant method of constructing highly tailored ultrathin polymer coatings. The
resulting LbL nanoparticles (LbL NPs) have negatively charged outer layers
that present polyelectrolytes such as dextran sulfate or hyaluronic acid in a
hydrated brush arrangement that enables hydration, steric repulsion, colloidal
and serum stability, and specific or non-specific targeting. Ultimately, it is
also important to introduce other kinds of interactions, particularly when
targeting specific cells such as immune or cancer cells; often these
interactions include receptor-specific interactions, but non-specific
interactions can also have a very significant role in directing particles to
cancer or other disease-associated cell types. Ultimately, we seek to explore
and exploit these interactions to target layer-by-layer and layered complex
nanoparticles to a range of different cell types. Efforts on the use of high
throughput sampling of nanoparticle-cell interactions on understanding
nanoparticle-cell interactions and targeted uptake will also be discussed.
Recent work includes addressing barriers to transport of these nanoparticles
within tumors, and will be discussed, including work involving the
understanding of these trafficking patterns and a means to leverage them
toward the delivery of cytokines for activation of the immune system against
ovarian cancer, a cancer which has not previously benefitted from
immunotherapeutic approaches. Ongoing work also includes examination of the
role of mechanical properties of the core nanoparticle in tumor targeting, and
how these LbL NP systems might be adapted to enhance delivery across the
blood-brain barrier and designed to target glioblastoma.

## Contact

Michael Humphreys  
michael.humphreys@duke.edu

More Information

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

