

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » Events Calendar

# [CANCELLED] [CANCELLED] After the End of the World: Entangled Nuclear
Colonialisms, Matters of Force, and the Material Force of Justice

Mar 23

_This event has passed._

##

Thursday, March 23, 2023 - 1:45pm to 3:15pm

## Presenter

Karen Barad, UC Santa Cruz

Please join the Climate Change, Decolonization, and Global Blackness Lab
(CCDGB) at the John Hope Franklin Humanities Institute for our 2022-23 speaker
series. CCDGB is part of The Entanglement Project, a new FHI initiative
focused on the intersections of race, health, and climate. Most talks are
hybrid: \- In-person registration (w/ COVID safety info):
https://duke.is/yc4gm \- Zoom registration: https://duke.is/rcjhw The CCDGB
speaker series is co-sponsored by the Nicholas Institute for Energy,
Environment & Sustainability and the Nicholas School of the Environment. The
Marshall Islands are at the crossroads of two great destructive forces:
nuclear colonialism and the climate crisis. In the aftermath of sixty-seven US
nuclear bomb "tests" visited upon the Marshall Islands, the concrete "dome"
built on Runit Island by the US government was an act of erasure and a-void-
ance - an attempt to contain and cover over plutonium remains and other
material traces of the violence of colonial hospitality that live inside the
Tomb (as the Marshallese call it). Taking the physicality of the hostility
within hospitality seriously, and going into the core of the theory that
produced the nuclear bomb, I argue that a radical hospitality - an infinity of
possibilities for interrupting state sanctioned violence - is written into the
structure of matter itself in its inseparability with the void. Philosopher,
physicist, and feminist scholar, Karen Barad is Distinguished Professor of
Feminist Studies, Philosophy, and History of Consciousness at the University
of California at Santa Cruz. Barad held a tenured appointment in physics
before moving into more interdisciplinary spaces. Particularly known for the
theory of agential realism, Barad is the author of Meeting the Universe
Halfway: Quantum Physics and the Entanglement of Matter and Meaning (Duke
University Press, 2007) and numerous articles in the fields of physics,
philosophy, science studies, poststructuralist theory, and feminist theory.
Barad's research has been supported by the National Science Foundation, the
Ford Foundation, the Hughes Foundation, the Irvine Foundation, the Mellon
Foundation, the Fulbright Foundation, and the National Endowment for the
Humanities.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

