

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » Events Calendar

# AI Health Spark Seminar Series: Neuroimage Analysis in Autism: from Model-
Based Estimation to Data-driven Learning

Mar 7

_This event has passed._

##

Tuesday, March 7, 2023 - 12:00pm to 1:00pm

## Presenter

James S. Duncan, Ph.D., Ebenezer K. Hunt Professor and Department Chair of
Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Radiology & Biomedical Imaging, Professor
of Electrical Engineering, Professor of Statistics & Data Science; Yale
University, New Haven, CT with host Maciej Mazurowski, PhD; Associate
Professor in Radiology, Duke University

Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has been shown to be helpful for
the study of autism spectrum disorders (ASD). This talk will describe the
evolution of efforts in this area within our group that carry promise for
producing objective biomarkers for ASD, as well as predicting patient response
to a behavioral therapy known as Pivotal Response Treatment (PRT), using task-
based fMRI. Such biomarkers would provide an important step for better
understanding the underlying pathophysiology of ASD that could help with
objective and personalized diagnosis, provide new targets for development of
new treatments, and provide a way to monitor patient progress. Initially a
robust, group-wise unified Bayesian framework to detect both hyper and hypo-
active communities from connectivity maps will be described. Next, more recent
work will be presented that has focused on deriving ASD biomarkers from
individual subject's time-series data, based on the classification of
individual subjects (into ASD or typical control) and identifying spatially-
specific key regions using convolutional neural networks and ablation analysis
of regions. In addition, a strategy based on recurrent neural networks (using
long-short-term memories or LSTMs) will be presented that predicts patient
response to PRT behavioral therapy from baseline imaging while incorporating
subject-specific phenotypic information for network initialization. Finally,
early work on the use of effective connectivity based on whole brain dynamic
causal modeling will be discussed as an alternative or an adjunct to
functional connectivity for classification and biomarker analysis. This
session is a part of the monthly seminar series organized by Spark: AI Health
Initiative for Medical Imaging. The seminar will highlight outstanding work in
medical imaging at Duke and beyond. The seminar recordings will be publicly
available. The Spark initiative focuses on development, validation, and
clinical implementation of artificial intelligence algorithms for broadly
understood medical imaging by bringing together the technical and clinical
expertise across Duke campus. For more information please contact Dr. Maciej
Mazurowski (maciej.mazurowski@duke.edu).

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

