

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » Events Calendar

# Chemistry Seminar presented by Prof. Matthias Scheffler: "Electron-
Vibrational Coupling in and beyond The Phonon Picture: Concepts and
Applications to Thermal and Electrical Conductivity"

Apr 20

##

Thursday, April 20, 2023 - 11:40am to 12:40pm

French Family Science Center 2237

Add to calendar »

## Presenter

Prof. Matthias Scheffler, The NOMAD Laboratory at the FHI of the Max-Planck-
Gesellschaft

"Electron-Vibrational Coupling in and beyond The Phonon Picture: Concepts and
Applications to Thermal and Electrical Conductivity" Strong anharmonicity and
its critical effect on materials properties are more frequent than typically
presumed. Thus, for many materials and realistic temperatures the phonon
picture and with that all phonon-based theories break down, so that an
explicit treatment of the nuclear motion in terms of ab initio molecular
dynamics becomes decisive for the description and understanding of many
fundamental material properties, including thermal and electrical
conductivities. In this talk we present a high-throughput search for thermal
insulators employing a hierarchical workflow. It starts with a new
anharmonicity measure that allows to rapidly cover thousands of materials so
to single out potentially good candidates. The thermal conductivity of the 40
most promising compounds is then calculated with the ab initio Green-Kubo
formalism, which accounts for anharmonicity to all orders. Moreover, we use
the SISSO method to build an accurate, interpretable artificial-intelligence
model for the lattice thermal conductivity, so to further accelerate material
space exploration. By this means, we are able to identify several materials
with ultra-low conductivity at room temperature. We analyze the actuating
mechanisms that hinder heat transport in these materials, which in turn sheds
light on the microscopic origin of strongly anharmonic effects. In particular,
this demonstrates that energetically barely accessible defect configurations
can induce a breakdown of the phonon picture. Eventually, we discuss how these
anharmonic effects also influence the vibronic coupling to electronic degrees
of freedom and discuss how this affects the electrical conductivity of
strongly anharmonic systems.

## Contact

Chemistry Department  
chem-office@duke.edu

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

