

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » Events Calendar

# AI Health Virtual Seminar: Data bias is the roadblock to realizing the
promise of AI in healthcare

May 4

##

Thursday, May 4, 2023 - 12:00pm to 1:00pm

Virtual

Add to calendar »

## Presenter

Leo Anthony Celi, MD, MPH, MSc Principal Research Scientist Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Associate Professor (Part Time) Harvard Medical
School, Instructor, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Associate
Program Director, Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess with host
Nicoleta J Economou, PhD; Duke AI Health

The application of artificial intelligence in healthcare requires a team
science approach. A diverse set of expertise, perspectives and lived
experiences are required to understand the various ways bias lurks in the data
- from bias introduced by sampling selection (who made it to the database, who
didn't, and what's the impact on downstream models), variation in the
frequency of measurement that is not explained by the disease or patient
phenotype (aka "shortcut" features in medical images), technology that
performs differently across patient subgroups (e.g. pulse oximetry, wearable
sensors optimized around fit individuals), etc. Data bias is the roadblock to
realizing the promise of machine learning. Algorithmic bias is not just about
evaluating model performance across patient subgroups post hoc. The goal is to
ascertain that the model does not learn from features that should not affect
decision making. Offering chemotherapy should not depend on whether a patient
is on Medicaid or has a private insurance, predicting job performance should
not be informed by the gender of the applicant, optimizing treatment for
sepsis should be not be confounded by the use of infrared sensing technology.
This is much easier said than done because of the discovery that computers can
easily learn sensitive attributes that the human eye does not see. Using real
world data to evaluate the models makes this extremely challenging. Excellent
model accuracy means existing outcome disparities are fully encoded in the
algorithms Please join us for this lunchtime virtual seminar. The presentation
will be accessible to a broad audience, including those with no prior
background in health data science or artificial intelligence.

## Contact

Duke AI Health  
aihealth@duke.edu

More Information

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

