

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » Events Calendar

# AI Health Virtual Seminar: Challenges in Bring-Your-Own-Device Design-based
Digital Health Studies to Develop Reliable and Generalizable Artificial
Intelligence Tools for Healthcare Application

May 10

##

Wednesday, May 10, 2023 - 12:00pm to 1:00pm

Virtual

Add to calendar »

## Presenter

Md Mobashir Hasan Shandhi, PhD; American Heart Association Postdoctoral
Fellow, Department of Biomedical Engineering, Duke University, with host
Andrew Olson, MPP; Associate Director, Policy Strategy and Solutions for
Health Data Science, Duke AI Health

Longitudinal digital health studies combine information from digital devices,
such as commercial wearable devices, and patient-reported data, such as
surveys, from participants. While the ubiquitous adoption of smartphones and
access to the internet supports the development of large-scale and distributed
digital health studies, there are challenges in collecting representative data
as a result of low adherence to, engagement with, and regularity of performing
study tasks such as filling out surveys and charging and wearing devices.
These challenges may result in a study population that is not representative
of the general population or the population group of interest. Artificial
Intelligence tools developed based on a non-representative population have a
higher chance to fail to generalize in the real-world deployment of such
technologies and may not work for underrepresented and underserved
communities. In this seminar, the speaker will share his research group's
experience in conducting longitudinal digital health studies for COVID-19
monitoring, the challenges the researchers faced to collect data from a
representative population, and how his team developed a guideline to mitigate
demographic imbalance in bring-your-own-device (BYOD) design-based digital
health studies. Furthermore, the speaker will also share how his team
developed a machine learning method based intelligent allocation method for
COVID-19 diagnostic testing in a resource-limited setting (when we have
limited diagnostic tests, like the earlier phase of the pandemic and onset of
new variants) using wearable and survey data collected during the longitudinal
CovIdentify study. Please join us for this lunchtime virtual seminar. The
presentation will be accessible to a broad audience, including those with no
prior background in health data science or artificial intelligence.

## Contact

Duke AI Health  
aihealth@duke.edu

More Information

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

