

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » Events Calendar

# Storing and Querying Video Data

Mar 20

_This event has passed._

##

Monday, March 20, 2023 - 4:00pm to 5:00pm

## Presenter

Magdalena Balazinska

ABSTRACT The proliferation of inexpensive high-quality cameras coupled with
recent advances in machine learning and computer vision have enabled new
applications on video data. This in turn has renewed interest in video data
management systems (VDMSs). In this talk, we explore how to build a modern
data management system for video data. We focus, in particular, on the storage
manager and present several techniques to store video data in a way that
accelerates queries over that data. We then move up the stack and discuss
different types of data models that can be exposed to applications. Finally,
we discuss how it's possible to support users in expressing queries to find
events of interest in a video database. SPEAKER BIO Magdalena Balazinska is
Professor, Bill & Melinda Gates Chair, and Director of the Paul G. Allen
School of Computer Science & Engineering at the University of Washington.
Magdalena's research interests are in the field of database management
systems. An ACM Fellow, her current research focuses on data management for
data science, big data systems, cloud computing, and image and video
analytics. She received her Ph.D. from the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology (MIT). Read more about Dr. Magdalena Balazinska at
https://www.cs.washington.edu/people/faculty/magda. TRIANGLE COMPUTER SCIENCE
DISTINGUISHED LECTURER SERIES: The computer science departments at Duke
University, North Carolina State University, and the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill joined forces to create the Triangle Computer Science
Distinguished Lecturer Series. The lecture series began in the 1995-1996
academic year, and is made possible by grants from the U.S. Army Research
Office, rotated between the departments.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

