

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » Events Calendar

# Data-Aware Computational Models for Science and Engineering

Mar 9

_This event has passed._

##

Thursday, March 9, 2023 - 9:00am to 10:00am

## Presenter

Zhengyu (Daniel) Huang

In the past half-century, partial differential equation (PDE)-based
computational models have emerged as indispensable for science and
engineering. However, remarkable gaps still exist between state-of-the-art
simulations and reality, meaning that many simulations are ineffective in
supporting decision-making or design under uncertainty for complex systems
(e.g., Mars landing). To bridge the gap and fulfill challenging real-world
missions, I develop data-aware computational models that combine increasingly
available data with complex PDE-based models to make improved predictions,
together with measures of their uncertainty. In this talk, I will focus on two
complementary approaches to data-aware computational modeling. First, I will
discuss a new Bayesian method for updating/improving computational models and
quantifying uncertainties based on measured data: our Kalman inversion
approach is built on Kalman filtering and empirically converges in O(10)
iterations with O(10) ensemble evaluations per iteration, enabling effective
Bayesian calibration with very few model evaluations. Second, I will introduce
our geometry-aware Fourier neural operator (FNO), a deep learning surrogate
model which maps a given design geometry to a predicted PDE solution state. We
use the automatic differentiation tools of deep learning packages to
efficiently compute gradients of the FNO approximation, enabling real-time
multiphysics engineering design optimization. These methods we developed have
been successfully applied in complex applications ranging from Mars landing
supersonic parachute, bacteria-resistant catheter design, the digital twin for
wing damage detection, and the Earth system model for climate science.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

