

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » Events Calendar

# Convex Analysis at Infinity: An Introduction to Astral Space

Mar 27

_This event has passed._

##

Monday, March 27, 2023 - 12:00pm to 1:00pm

## Presenter

Robert Schapire

LUNCH Lunch served at 11:45 am. ABSTRACT Not all convex functions have finite
minimizers; some can only be minimized by a sequence as it heads to infinity.
In this work, we aim to develop a theory for understanding such minimizers at
infinity. We study astral space, a compact extension of Euclidean space to
which such points at infinity have been added. Astral space is constructed to
be as small as possible while still ensuring that all linear functions can be
continuously extended to the new space. Although not a vector space, nor even
a metric space, astral space is nevertheless so well-structured as to allow
useful and meaningful extensions of such concepts as convexity, conjugacy, and
subdifferentials. We develop these concepts and analyze various properties of
convex functions on astral space, including the detailed structure of their
minimizers, exact characterizations of continuity, and convergence of descent
algorithms. This is joint work with Miroslav Dudík and Matus Telgarsky.
SPEAKER BIO Robert Schapire is a Partner Researcher at Microsoft Research in
New York City, and his main research interest is in theoretical and applied
machine learning. He received his PhD from MIT, and had a brief postdoc at
Harvard. He subsequently joined the technical staff at AT&T Labs (formerly
AT&T Bell Laboratories) and then became a Professor of Computer Science at
Princeton. He won the 2003 Gödel Prize, the 2004 Kanelakkis Theory and
Practice Award, and is a fellow of the AAAI and a member of both the National
Academy of Engineering and the National Academy of Sciences.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

