

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » Events Calendar

# Engineering Hierarchical and Non-Equilibrium Materials for Climate and
Energy Crises

Mar 8

_This event has passed._

##

Wednesday, March 8, 2023 - 9:00am to 10:00am

## Presenter

Liang Feng

The climate crisis is reshaping how we harvest, store, and consume energy
globally. To achieve net zero emissions by 2050, we must develop low-cost and
energy-efficient materials and mechanisms for carbon capture, hydrogen
storage, and sustainable catalysis. In the first part of my talk, I will
describe my efforts to develop new hierarchical materials for carbon capture
by using pore engineering strategies to tailor structures with desired pore
environments. The commercialization and scale-up production of these porous
materials were achieved with the collaboration of industry partners. In the
second part of my talk, I will describe my design of an active adsorption
mechanism that provides a potential solution for effective decarbonization.
Over the past century, adsorption has been investigated extensively only in
equilibrium systems, with a focus on physisorption and chemisorption. I will
present the first fundamentally new mode of adsorption-mechanisorption-since
the observation of physisorption and chemisorption in the 1930s. Analogous to
the active transport mechanism in living organisms, adsorbates are actively
transported from the bulk to the interface, thereby creating a vast chemical
potential gradient commensurate with storing energy in a metastable state.
Mechanisorption extends, in a fundamental manner, the scope and potential of
adsorption phenomena and offers a transformative approach to control chemistry
at surfaces and interfaces. Lastly, I will summarize the progress and provide
an outlook for my next steps in driving continuous adsorption of carbon
dioxide from low-concentration regions through this active adsorption
mechanism. By using these materials and mechanisms, we can make significant
progress toward addressing the climate and sustainability crises we face
today.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

