Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Internships & Career Planning

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Undergraduate
  3. Students

## Build Relationships with Faculty

Congratulations on deciding to pursue an internship. There's no better time to
try on different career options than now!

As part of presenting yourself to a possible employer, you will need
recommendations from faculty members at Duke. Take the opportunity while
you're here at Duke to foster relationships with faculty members.

Due to the smaller sizes of Duke CEE courses, many of these relationships will
happen naturally. However, do try to capitalize on this opportunity as much as
possible. The results can be invaluable.

## Investigate internship Opportunities

Internships are powerful opportunities for students. They allow students to
gain experience and perspective on how the real world works. This insight
makes students more competitive during job interviews.

## Make Contact

### Kirsten Shaw

Corporate and Industry Relations  
Pratt School of Engineering  
kirsten.shaw@duke.edu  
919-660-5533

## Consider FUrther OPportunities

### Professional Societies

Active engagement in local chapters of professional organizations such as the
American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) indicate to potential employers a
dedication to your major, a desire to enhance your expertise, and an interest
in developing professional relationships. Besides, they're fun!

### Fundamentals Exam (FE)

The Fundamentals Exam (FE) (formerly known as the EIT) is the first step
toward earning licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE). Although the FE is
not required for graduation you are highly encouraged to take it regardless of
your intended career path because intentions change and the exam is more
onerous to prepare for the greater the time separation between taking the exam
and graduation. Plan on taking this exam in either October or April of your
senior year.

The FE exam is the same for all states and is valid in all states. The PE
exam, however, is state-specific and generally cannot be taken until 48 months
of practical experience under the direct supervision of a PE has been
accumulated.

Application for the exam within North Carolina: Follow the link under "Student
Application" for Application for Certification as an Engineer-Intern.

Note that important items are required as part of the application, including a
fee and faculty/engineer references. Plan accordingly when preparing your
application—do not wait until the last minute.

#### When the Exam Should be Taken _  
_

The exam is offered only twice a year, October and April, and cannot be taken
any earlier than senior year.

The October exam generally has an August 1 application deadline and is given
at NC State University in Raleigh. The April exam has an application deadline
within Duke in late January and is given at Duke.

There is a review session offered at Duke in the Spring that meets once a week
in the evenings for eight (8) weeks. Topics covered are general information
and strength of materials, fluid mechanics, materials science, electricity,
chemistry, thermodynamics, dynamics, and engineering economics. These review
sessions at Duke are only offered in the Spring.

Advantages to taking the exam in April:

  * Exam is given at Duke, therefore minimal traveling on the day of the exam

  * Review session offered in the Spring in advance of the April exam date

  * You have six more months of coursework related to the exam under your belt

Some students find that the timing of the April exam adds to an already busy
time and, for this reason, October may be preferred.

## Undergraduate Contacts

### Joseph Nadeau

Professor of the Practice and Director of Undergraduate Studies

__919-660-5216

__nadeau@duke.edu

### Nicolle Hinz

Program Coordinator

__919-660-4977

__nicolle.hinz@duke.edu

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

