Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Why Duke for CEE?
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Where Our Students Go

      2. Degree Options
        1. Civil Eng Degree Planning
        2. Civil Eng Study Tracks
        3. Env. Eng Degree Planning
        4. Dual Majors
        5. Certificates
        6. 4+1: BSE+Master's

      3. For Current Students
        1. Courses
        2. Research & Independent Study
        3. Outreach & Service Learning
        4. Senior Design Capstone
        5. Internships & Career Planning
        6. Graduation with Distinction

  * Graduate
    *       1. The Duke Difference
        1. Degree Options
        2. Scholarships & Financial Support
        3. Graduate Study Tracks
        4. Graduate Certificates
        5. Course Descriptions

      2. Master's Study
        1. Master of Science in CEE
        2. Civil Engineering
        3. Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
        4. Environmental Engineering
        5. Risk Engineering
        6. Career Services
        7. Career Outcomes

      3. PhD
        1. Meet Our Students
        2. PhD Career Outcomes

      4. For Current Students
  * Research
    *       1. Overview
      2. Research News
      3. Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
      4. Environmental Health Engineering
      5. Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
      6. Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
      7. Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * About
    *       1. Facts & Stats
      2. Meet the Chair
      3. Serving a Global Society
      4. Advisory Board
      5. Alumni
      6. Awards & Honors
      7. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Email Newsletter
        3. Duke CEE Magazine

      8. Events
        1. Seminars

# Senior Design Capstone

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Undergraduate
  3. Students

Duke CEE's senior design courses give students rigorous, real-world,
engineering experiences

We call it Overture Engineering. Senior design projects are completed through
our fictional engineering firm, Overture. The firm has three divisions:
architectural, environmental, and structural.

Through this coordinated simulation, Duke CEE seniors focus on synthesizing
and applying the science, mathematics, engineering, and design skills—and
advanced topics—learned throughout their time at Duke.

## Our Virtual Company—Overture Engineering

Senior CEE majors try their hand at real-world design through a set of
integrated capstone courses as part of Overture Engineering, a fictional
design company for which they are the "employees."

Overture Engineer's student-employees work within their division and then
collaborate in cross-divisional teams.

> The groups tackle all the aspects of a real-world engineering project. In a
> recent project, students collaborated on the design of 50,000 square feet of
> campus research space.

To kick off the project, a site development roundtable was conducted utilizing
local, multidisciplinary, design professionals. Students were responsible for
different facets of the project, ultimately working as teams for the most
cost-effective, code and standards-compliant design. As project deliverables,
students develop suitable documentation and reports supporting design
assumptions and decisions, in a manner sufficient for bidding.

The structural engineering senior design team focuses on the gravity and
lateral force resisting systems of the structure, while the environmental
engineering design team deals with the land impact issues around the
structure. There is plenty of interaction between the two camps.

Many students take both the architectural capstone and either the structural
or environmental capstone, so they see the project from both an architectural
and an engineering perspective.

### Division Responsibilities

#### Architectural Division (CEE 411)

  * Siting of Project
  * Development of Program (space use, dimension)
  * Finish Floor Elevations

#### Structural Division (CEE 429)

  * Foundation Design
  * Column and Beam Design
  * Slab on Grade and Floor Slab Design
  * Retaining Wall Design

#### Environmental Division (CEE 469)

  * Environmental Site Assessment/Remedial Design
  * Wastewater Treatment Unit Process Design
  * Grading and Erosion Control Plan (including an analysis of the slope
    stability)
  * Stormwater Plan
  * Stream Restoration and Wetland Creation Design
  * Water Distribution Design
  * Wastewater Conveyance System Design

#### Project Management (CEE 649/679)

  * Establishing Direct vs. Indirect Expenses and Associated Multiplier, Bill
    Rates and Budget for the Project
  * Tracking Utilization and Schedule Compliance

### Project Completion

For the successful completion of the project, it is critically important that
the divisions work together as the decisions made by one affected the work
plan of the other (layout and location of the building impacted the foundation
design, the grading plan, the foundation wall height and location, potential
stream and wetland creation requirements, etc.).

During the semester, the classes hold joint roundtable discussions where
design issues affecting all the classes are addressed.

## Undergraduate Contacts

### Joseph Nadeau

Professor of the Practice and Director of Undergraduate Studies

__919-660-5216

__nadeau@duke.edu

### Nicolle Hinz

Program Coordinator

__919-660-4977

__nicolle.hinz@duke.edu

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Why Duke for CEE?
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Where Our Students Go
    * Degree Options
      * Civil Eng Degree Planning
      * Civil Eng Study Tracks
      * Env. Eng Degree Planning
      * Dual Majors
      * Certificates
        * Architectural Engineering
        * Global Development
        * Energy & The Environment
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's
    * For Current Students
      * Courses
      * Research & Independent Study
      * Outreach & Service Learning
      * Senior Design Capstone
      * Internships & Career Planning
      * Graduation with Distinction
  * Graduate
    * The Duke Difference
      * Degree Options
      * Scholarships & Financial Support
      * Graduate Study Tracks
      * Graduate Certificates
      * Course Descriptions
    * Master's Study
      * Master of Science in CEE
      * Civil Engineering
      * Computational Mechanics and Scientfic Computing
      * Environmental Engineering
      * Risk Engineering
      * Career Services
      * Career Outcomes
    * PhD
      * Meet Our Students
      * PhD Career Outcomes
    * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Overview
    * Research News
    * Computational Mechanics & Scientific Computing
    * Environmental Health Engineering
    * Geomechanics & Geophysics for Energy and the Environment
    * Hydrology & Fluid Dynamics
    * Risk & Resilient Systems
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * About
    * Facts & Stats
    * Meet the Chair
    * Serving a Global Society
    * Advisory Board
    * Alumni
    * Awards & Honors
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Email Newsletter
      * Duke CEE Magazine
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars

