Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Duke BME Contacts

## Administration

### Chris Clarke

HR Specialist

As the HR Specialist, Chris manages all payroll efforts for the department.
She serves as a point of contact with new hires to provide information and
answer inquiries regarding various payroll/HR policies during the onboarding
process. Advises faculty, staff, and management on policy guidelines and
eligibility criteria to include instructions and guidance regarding submission
timelines. Also, she manages leave of absence applications and determinations
for the department.

__1439 Fitzpatrick Center

__919-668-8009

__chris.clark@duke.edu

### Timothy Fields

Human Resources Manager

Timothy partners with the leadership team to understand and execute the
organizations human resource and talent strategy particularly as it relates to
current and future talent needs, recruiting, retention, and succession
planning. Timothy leads and directs the routine HR functions of the department
including hiring and interviewing staff, advises departmental management and
faculty on pay issues, personnel problems, classification issues, performance
appraisal, visas, employee relations issues, and/or grievances and
determination of appropriate disciplinary actions.

__1438 Fitzpatrick Center

__919-660-5945

__timothy.fields2@duke.edu

### Sylvia Harris

Staff Assistant, Purchasing & Reimbursements

Sylvia is the primary point of contact for all corporate corporate card
processes (corporate card setup, expense processing, resolving problems). She
also coordinates AP check processing and all types of reimbursements.

__1450 Fitzpatrick Center

__919-660-5134

__sylvia.harris@duke.edu

### Rachel Karatz

Staff Specialist, Coulter Partnership

Rachel provides administrative support for the Duke-Coulter Translational
Partnership director and associate director and assists the project leaders as
needed. She tracks the budgets of Duke-Coulter projects and coordinates
partnership events and meetings, including travel arrangements &
reimbursements.

__262A Hudson Annex

__919-660-5076

__rachel.karatz@duke.edu

### Alice Kessing

Staff Specialist

Alice manages all front office processes (greets & directs visitors,
distributes mail and packages) and assists with corporate card expense
processing and reimbursements. She is the first point of contact for
scheduling BME conference rooms.

__1427 Fitzpatrick Center

__919-660-5131

__alice.kessing@duke.edu

### Xavier Larkin

Program Coordinator, Duke Center for Quantitative Biodesign

Xavier makes operational and programmatic decisions that have a significant
impact on the achievement of the Duke Center for Quantitative Biodesign. In
his role, Xavier plans, coordinates and administers activities of assigned
programs, including developing and implementing procedures, processes,
services and systems within the Center.

__(919) 660-5131

__xavier.larkin@duke.edu

### Michaela Martinez

Department Science Writer

Michaela works with faculty, staff and students to create a range of news and
feature content to highlight departmental initiatives in research and
education.

__1453 Fitzpatrick Center

__919-660-5155

__michaela.kane@duke.edu

### Ellen Ray

Business Manager

Ellen oversees all the non-academic business activities of the Biomedical
Engineering Department including finance, budget, personnel, space, academic
support, visas and policy interpretation.

__1429 Fitzpatrick Center

__919-660-5122

__eray@duke.edu

## Degree Programs

### Beverly Gedvillas

Staff Specialist, MS and MEng Programs

Beverly provides administrative support to the Director of Master's Programs,
and she serves the students by advising about course schedules, coordinating
events for the master's community and connecting students with academic and
career resources for continued advancement. Bev is the first point of contact
for all BME master's students, MEng Committee and the Pratt master's programs,
and she tracks student compliance for departmental and Pratt requirements and
coordinates intern experiences.

__1434 Fitzpatrick Center

__919-660-5132

__beverly.gedvillas@duke.edu

### Danielle Giles

Program Coordinator, Sr., PhD Program

Danielle provides administrative support to the department’s PhD program. This
includes assisting the Director of Graduate Studies, developing the graduate
program budget, managing all recruitment activities, managing databases, and
developing surveys. She coordinates all financial awards processes and ensures
graduate student compliance with academic requirements. She is the primary
point of contact for all PhD students.

__1451 Fitzpatrick Center

__919-660-5590

__danielle.giles@duke.edu

### Cynthia Meade

Staff Specialist, Undergraduate Program

Cindy provides administrative support to the Director and Assistant Director
of Undergraduate Studies and provides support to the curriculum and associated
committees. She assists with the development of the BME course schedules,
maintains the undergraduate handbook, and faculty advisee assignments. Cindy
coordinates undergraduate student events and assists prospective students with
campus visits.

__253 Hudson Annex

__919-660-5133

__cynthia.meade@duke.edu

### Jamel Forbes

Staff Specialist, PhD Program

Jamel serves as the graduate staff specialist. He assists with the Duke BME
PhD program through planning, coordinating, and administering activities.

__1452 Fitzpatrick Center

__919-660-5131

__jamel.forbes@duke.edu

## Grants & Contracts

### Lindsay Abbott

Grants & Contracts Administrator

Lindsay Abbott manages pre and post award processes for an assigned portfolio
of complex grants and contracts. However, her work is predominantly post-
award. She has experience with NIH, NSF, ARO and many other sponsors.

__lindsay.abbot@duke.edu

### Amberly Adams

Grants & Contracts Administrator, Sr.

Amberly is responsible for managing the department’s training grants, as well
as sponsored research grants and contracts directed by the faculty who are
principal investigators of the training grants. Responsibilities for all
duties relate to pre- and post-award processes.

__1452 Fitzpatrick Center

__919-681-5067

__amberly.adams@duke.edu

### Natasha Alexandrova

Grants & Contracts Administrator, Sr.

Natasha manages both, pre- and post-award processes for an assigned portfolio
of BME faculty that include complex grants and contracts, multiple sub-awards
and/or multi-investigators with the School of Medicine. As a part of the pre-
award management, Natasha participates in submission of proposals for any
sponsor, and her post-award management includes activities such as effort
distributions, progress reporting, tracking expenses, summer salary payments
to the faculty from the list of her assigned portfolio.

__1440 Fitzpatrick Center

__919-660-5522

__natalya.alexandrova@duke.edu

### Gina Briscoe

Grants & Contracts Administrator, Sr.

Gina Briscoe manages pre- and post-award processes for an assigned portfolio
of grants and contracts. However, her work is predominantly post-award, with a
concentration on proposals with multiple sub-awards and/or multi-investigators
with the School of Medicine. She also serves as an informal consultant to all
BME labs for procurement issues.

__g.briscoe@duke.edu

### Sophie Cheng

Grants & Contracts Administrator, Sr.

Sophie manages both, pre- and post-award processes for an assigned portfolio
of BME faculty that include complex grants and contracts. Her pre-award work
has a concentration on proposals with multiple sub-awards and/or multi-
investigators with the School of Medicine, and complex proposals (DARPA, ONR
and International Foundations). Sophie’s post-award work includes all aspects
of grants management activities such as projection report, effort distribution
and RPPR submission.

__1441 Fitzpatrick Center

__919-660-5420

__sophie.cheng@duke.edu

### Erica Clayton

Grants & Contracts Manager

Erica provides supervision of the BME department grant personnel and their
activities. This includes the assignment of faculty to grant manager
portfolios based on the level of grant/contract complexity and the expertise
of the grants staff. She tracks all grant compliance issues, and provides
valuable input to the business manager on a wide range of grant related
issues. In addition, Erica manages a portfolio of the most complex grants and
contracts and takes the lead in resolving all difficult granting issues.

__1437 Fitzpatrick Center

__919-660-5121

__erica.clayton@duke.edu

### Hermine Kabbendjian

Grants & Contracts Administrator

__hermine.kabbendjian@duke.edu

### Maria Scripa

Grants & Contracts Administrator

Maria manages pre- and post-award processes for an assigned portfolio of
complex grants and contracts. Her work has a concentration on proposals with
multiple sub-awards and/or multi-investigators with the Duke School of
Medicine, and complex proposals (DARPA, DOE, International subcontractors).

__Room 1427 FCIEMAS

__(919) 660-5131

__maria.scripa@duke.edu

### Jie Yin

Grants & Contracts Administrator

__jie.yin@duke.edu

## Instrument Design

### Steven (Joe) Owen

Instrument Designer

Joe designs and fabricates precision instruments for faculty, research staff
and students. He often begins with hand-drawn sketches, and then uses computer
numerical control (CNC) software and specialty custom apparatus using a
variety of different materials to produce the final instrument.

__Room 0003, TelCom Building

__919-660-5136

__sjowen@duke.edu

## Teaching Labs

### Matt Brown

Teaching Laboratory Manager

Matt supervises and coordinates administrative and technical activities of our
Teaching Laboratories. His focus is the management and administration of
courses related to electronics, signals and instrumentation. Matt also serves
as an advisor and consultant for the design related courses.

__1205 Fitzpatrick Center

__919-660-8817

__matt.brown@duke.edu

### Liz Feeney

Laboratory Administrator

Liz supports undergraduate and graduate level courses in the BME Teaching Labs
that span topics including biomaterials, electrophysiology, and biomolecular
engineering. Her primary role is to prepare materials for labs as well as
maintain lab spaces and equipment.  

__TBD

__919-660-5191

__elizabeth.feeney599@duke.edu

### Maggie Gatongi

Senior Laboratory Administrator

Maggie coordinates and performs a variety of administrative and technical
activities in support of designated lab courses. The focus of the courses
Maggie oversees is quantitative analysis of biological processes for
engineering undergraduates. She also maintains the teaching lab equipment and
apparatus to ensure adequate quality control

__P03A Teer Engineering Building

__919-660-5780

__mbugua.margaret@duke.edu

## PhD Program

### Joel Collier

Director, Graduate Studies

__919-660-5590

__joel.collier@duke.edu

### Danielle Giles

PhD Program Coordinator

__919-660-5590

__danielle.giles@duke.edu

### Jamel Forbes

Staff Specialist, PhD Program

Jamel serves as the graduate staff specialist. He assists with the Duke BME
PhD program through planning, coordinating, and administering activities.

__1452 Fitzpatrick Center

__919-660-5131

__jamel.forbes@duke.edu

## Master's Programs

### Sina Farsiu

Director, Master's Studies

__pratt_masters@duke.edu

### Paul J. Fearis

Associate Director, Master's Studies

__paul.fearis@duke.edu

### Bev Gedvillas

Master's Program Coordinator

__919-660-5132

__beverly.gedvillas@duke.edu

## Undergraduate Program

### Elizabeth Bucholz

Director

__919-684-2182

__elizabeth.bucholz@duke.edu

### Cameron Kim

Associate Director

__cameron.kim@duke.edu

### Cynthia Meade

Staff Assistant

__919-660-5133

__cynthia.meade@duke.edu

## Postal Address

**Duke BME**  
Room 1427, Fitzpatrick Center (FCIEMAS)  
101 Science Drive  
Campus Box 90281  
Durham, NC 27708-0281 USA

Map & Driving Directions »

## Phone

Phone: +1 919-660-5131  
Fax: +1 919-684-4488

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

