Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Faculty

Filter by Research Area

All Faculty

Bioelectric Engineering

Biomaterials

Biomechanics & Mechanobiology

Biomedical & Health Data Sciences

Biomedical Imaging & Biophotonics

Biosensors & Bioinstrumentation

Computational Modeling of Biological Systems

Drug & Gene Delivery

Immune Engineering

Neural Engineering

Synthetic & Systems Biology

Tissue Engineering & Regenerative Medicine

## Department Chair

### Joseph A. Izatt

Michael J. Fitzpatrick Distinguished Professor of Engineering

Research Interests: Biomedical optics and spectroscopy, coherence-based
imaging and microscopy, novel instrumentation for minimally invasive medical
diagnostics, and real-time image-guided robotic microsurgery.

## Primary Faculty

### Roger C. Barr

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Bioelectricity and biomedical computing.

### Elizabeth K Bucholz

Associate Professor of the Practice in the Department of Biomedical
Engineering

### Nenad Bursac

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Embryonic and adult stem cell therapies for heart and
muscle disease; cardiac and skeletal muscle tissue engineering; cardiac
electrophysiology and arrhythmias; genetic modifications of stem and somatic
cells; micropatterning of proteins and hydrogels.

### Pranam D. Chatterjee

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Integration of computational and experimental
methodologies to design novel proteins for applications in genome editing,
targeted protein modulation, and reproductive bioengineering

### Ashutosh Chilkoti

Alan L. Kaganov Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Focused on biomolecular materials and biointerface science
and emphasizes the development of applications that span the range from
bioseparations, biosensors, biomaterials, and targeted drug delivery.

### Emma Chory

Assistant Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering, starting
August 2023

Research Interests: Directed Evolution, therapeutic discovery, epigenetics and
genomics, High-throughput automation, synthetic biology, protein engineering

### Joel Collier

Theodore Kennedy Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: The design of biomaterials for a range of biomedical
applications, with a focus on understanding and controlling adaptive immune
responses. Most materials investigated are created from molecular assemblies-
proteins, peptides or bioconjugates that self-organize into useful…

### Jessilyn Dunn

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Use of large-scale biomedical datasets to model and guide
personalized therapies.

### Timothy Dunn

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Machine learning, computer vision, neurobiology, animal
behavior, computational neuroscience, prognostic modeling, traumatic brain
injury

### Sina Farsiu

Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Focused on medical imaging and machine learning to improve
the overall health and vision outcome of patients with ocular and neurological
diseases (e.g., age-related macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathy,
Alzheimer, and ALS) through earlier and personalized therapy.

### Paul J Fearis

Associate Professor of the Practice in the Department of Biomedical
Engineering

Research Interests: Innovation & product development processes, design for
manufacture

### Sharon Gerecht

Paul M. Gross Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: stem cells, biomaterials, hypoxia, blood vessels, physics
of cancer, regenerative medicine

### Charles Gersbach

John W. Strohbehn Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Gene therapy, genomics and epigenomics, biomolecular and
cellular engineering, regenerative medicine, and synthetic biology.

### Yiyang Gong

Assistant Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Recording and understanding brain activity by developing
novel combinations of optical microscopy and genetically encoded sensors.
Using these technologies, we wish to dissect neural circuit function and
investigate how neural activity drives complex behaviors.

### Warren M. Grill

Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Neural engineering and neural prostheses and include
design and testing of electrodes and stimulation techniques, the electrical
properties of tissues and cells, and computational neuroscience with
applications in restoration of bladder function, treatment of movement
disorders…

### Craig S. Henriquez

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Large-scale computing, heart modeling, and brain modeling.

### Brenton D. Hoffman

James L. and Elizabeth M. Vincent Associate Professor of Biomedical
Engineering

Research Interests: Focused on understanding, on a molecular level, how
mechanical and chemical cues from the environment are detected, integrated,
and manipulated by cells to dictate physiological and patho-physiological
responses important in vascular biology.

### Roarke Horstmeyer

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Computational optics, machine learning, and designing new
algorithms for image processing. A main focus is to improve how we capture and
use images of microscopic phenomena within a range of biomedical contexts. In
general, I like to create new optical devices that can improve…

### David F. Katz

Nello L. Teer, Jr. Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering, in the
Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. School of Engineering

Research Interests: Methods for prophylaxis against STD's, emphasizing topical
microbicides and contraception; biofluid mechanics; rheology and transport
phenomena; biophysical aspects of mammalian sperm motility, sperm transport,
and fertilization; and biomechanical functioning of the vitreous of…

### Cameron M Kim

Assistant Professor of the Practice in the Department of Biomedical
Engineering

### Aaron M Kyle

Professor of the Practice in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

### Michael D Lynch

Associate Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Focused on genetically engineering microbes to shut off
their growth circuits and turn on new pathways to produce different
compounds—improving production of biofuels, pharmacological molecules and
industrial chemicals.

### Cameron C McIntyre

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Neural engineering, computational neuroscience, brain
imaging, and the design of human neuromodulation systems. Special expertise in
the biophysics of brain stimulation and recording.

### Samira Musah

Assistant Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPS cells), disease
mechanisms, regenerative medicine, molecular and cellular basis of human
kidney development and disease, organ engineering, patient-specific disease
models, biomarkers, therapeutic discovery, tissue and organ transplantation,…

### Barry S. Myers

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: An expert in head and neck impact injury biomechanics, Dr.
Myers is interested in translational research innovation—overseeing programs
to advance faculty research to market.

### Kathryn Radabaugh Nightingale

Theo Pilkington Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Ultrasonic and elasticity imaging, specifically nonlinear
propagation, acoustic streaming and radiation force; the intentional
generation of these phenomena for the purpose of tissue characterization;
finite element modeling of normal and diseased tissue when exposed to…

### Mikhail A. Nikiforov

Professor of Pathology

Research Interests: The main objectives of Professor Nikiforov’s research
program includes identification and therapeutic exploitation of mechanisms
underlying the deregulated transcription programs and metabolism in melanoma
and multiple myeloma, two malignancies with no curative treatment.…

### Mark L. Palmeri

Professor of the Practice in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Ultrasonic imaging, specifically using acoustic radiation
force to characterize the mechanical properties of tissue, and finite element
analysis of soft tissue response to impulsive radiation force excitation.
Other research interests include ultrasonic bioeffects and mechanical…

### Nimmi Ramanujam

Robert W. Carr, Jr., Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Innovating on optical strategies to peer into the
biological landscape of thick tissues. Technologies being developed in her lab
leverage principles of optical spectroscopy, optical sectioning microscopy,
and molecular imaging. Her research group is developing and applying these…

### Amanda Randles

Alfred Winborne and Victoria Stover Mordecai Assistant Professor of Biomedical
Sciences

Research Interests: Biomedical simulation and high-performance computing

### Daniel Reker

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Integration of active machine learning, biomedical data
science, and biochemical experiments for the analysis and design of
personalized therapeutic opportunities.

### Eric S Richardson

Associate Professor of the Practice in the Department of Biomedical
Engineering

Research Interests: Innovation, Medical Device Design, Design Ethnography,
Design Pedagogy, Global Health Technologies, Entrepreneurship.

### Michael Rizk

Assistant Professor of the Practice of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: First-year engineering education, with a focus on design

### Michael Rubinstein

Professor of Biomedical Engineering, and Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science

Research Interests: Polymer theory and computer simulations

### Ann Saterbak

Professor of the Practice in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Innovations in undergraduate engineering education,
particularly new pedagogical methods that broaden students’ problem solving
skills and design thinking.

### Tatiana Segura

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: The design of biomaterials to promote endogenous repair
and reducing inflammation through the design of the geometry of the material,
and delivering genes, proteins and drugs.

### Marc A. Sommer

Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Neuronal circuits of the brain, including recording from
single neurons and studying the effects of inactivating or stimulating well-
defined brain areas. His goals are to understand how individual areas process
signals and how multiple areas interact to cause cognition and…

### Michael Raphael Tadross

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Our goal is to bridge the gap between the study of brain
as a computational device and the search for novel neuropathological
treatments. We develop technologies to manipulate molecules, cells, and
synapses in the brain, and deploy these reagents in mouse models of disease.

### Gregg E. Trahey

Robert Plonsey Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Medical ultrasound, image guided surgery, adaptive
imaging, imaging of tissue's mechanical properties, and radiation force
imaging.

### George A. Truskey

R. Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Distinguished Professor of Biomedical
Engineering

Research Interests: Cardiovascular tissue engineering, mechanisms of
atherogenesis, cell adhesion, and cell biomechanics.

### Shyni Varghese

Professor of Biomedical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering & Materials
Science and Orthopaedics

Research Interests: Musculoskeletal tissue repair, disease biophysics and
organ-on-a-chip technology

### Jonathan Viventi

Assistant Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Using flexible electronics to create new technology for
interfacing with the brain at high resolution over large areas. These new
tools can help diagnose and treat neurological disorders such as epilepsy, and
help improve the performance of brain machine interfaces.

### Tuan Vo-Dinh

R. Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Distinguished Professor of Biomedical
Engineering

Research Interests: Biophotonics, laser-excited luminescence spectroscopy,
room temperature phosphorimetry, synchronous luminescence spectroscopy,
surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy, field environmental instrumentation,
fiberoptics sensors, nanosensors, biosensors and biochips for the protection…

### Olaf T. Von Ramm

Thomas Lord Distinguished Professor of Engineering

Research Interests: Diagnostic ultrasound imaging systems, IR imaging, medical
instrumentation and their new applications.

### Adam P. Wax

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Optical spectroscopy for early cancer detection, novel
microscopy and interferometry techniques.

### Patrick D. Wolf

Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Advanced instrumentation for diagnosis and treatment of
electrophysiological problems. This research covers two primary organ systems:
the heart and the brain. In the heart, Dr. Wolf is developing an image guided
ablation system for treatment of arrhythmias. In the brain, he is…

### Junjie Yao

Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Photoacoustic tomography (PAT) technologies, and
translating PAT advances into diagnostic and therapeutic applications,
especially in functional brain imaging and early cancer theranostics.

### Lingchong You

James L. Meriam Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Quantitative biology, synthetic biology, machine learning,
antibiotic resistance, microbiome

### Fan Yuan

Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Principles and mechanisms of delivery for drugs, genes,
and vaccines; pharmacokinetics; electrotransfer or electroporation technology;
and tumor pathophysiology.

## Secondary Faculty

### Gaurav Arya

Professor in the Thomas Lord Department of Mechanical Engineering and
Materials Science

Research Interests: Molecular modeling, molecular simulations, statistical
mechanics, coarse-graining, machine learning, polymer and colloidal physics,
polymer-nanoparticle composites, chromatin biophysics, DNA nanotechnology,
viral DNA packaging, single-molecule force spectroscopy, nanoscale…

### Aravind Asokan

Professor in Surgery

Research Interests: VirologyRNA BiologyViral EngineeringRNA EngineeringGene
TherapyGene EditingGene RegulationRegenerative Medicine

### Alexandra Badea

Associate Professor in Radiology

Research Interests: Alzheimer's Disease, Brain Imaging, MRI, Connectivity,
Multivariate Biomarkers, Image Analysis, Neurological Conditions.

### Cristian Tudorel Badea

Professor in Radiology

Research Interests: Spectral CT, Cardiac CT, Image Reconstruction, Deep
Learning, Nanoparticles, Theranostics, Co-Clinical cancer trials, Small Animal
Imaging

### Jeffrey Beck

Assistant Professor of Neurobiology

### Matthew L Becker

Hugo L. Blomquist Distinguished Professor of Chemistry

Research Interests: Polymer chemistry; bioconjugate chemistry; molecular
imaging and additive manufacturing; materials for bone, soft tissue, neural
and vascular tissue engineering; drug and protein delivery; degradable
materials for flexible electronics

### Karl-Dimiter Bissig

Chen Family Associate Professor of Pediatrics

Research Interests: Our group is interested in diseases of the liver, ranging
from viral hepatitis to metabolic liver disorders and liver cancer. The lab
specializes in human liver chimeric mice and created the first xenograft model
for metabolic liver disease as well as a novel patient derived…

### Leslie M. Collins

Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Physics-based machine learning algorithms for big data,
including developing remediation strategies for the hearing impaired and
sensor-based algorithms for the detection of hazardous buried objects

### Louis Edwin DeFrate

Professor in Orthopaedic Surgery

### Bastiaan Driehuys

Professor of Radiology

### Kafui Dzirasa

K. Ranga Rama Krishnan Associate Professor

### Peter Edward Fecci

Professor of Neurosurgery

Research Interests: Brain Tumor ImmunotherapyCancer-Induced Immune
DysfunctionGlioblastomaBrain Metastasis

### Greg D. Field

Adjunct Associate Professor of Neurobiology

### Ken Gall

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Materials science, mechanical properties, metals and
polymers. Specialties: Shape memory materials, biomaterials, 3D printing.

### Geoffrey Steven Ginsburg

Adjunct Professor in the Department of Medicine

### Xiao Hu

Ann Henshaw Gardiner Distinguished Professor of Nursing

Research Interests: Biomedical signal processing (ECG, EEG, PPG, ICP, cerebral
blood flow velocity), machine learning in healthcare, mathematical modeling of
physiological systems, brain monitoring.

### Josh Huang

Duke School of Medicine Distinguished Professor in Neuroscience

### Tony Jun Huang

William Bevan Distinguished Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science

Research Interests: Acoustofluidics, microfluidics, lab-on-a-chip, biomedical
micro-electro-mechanical systems (BioMEMS), optofluidics, plasmofluidics.

### G. Allan Johnson

Charles E. Putman University Distinguished Professor of Radiology

### Anthony Nanlin Kuo

Associate Professor of Ophthalmology

### Joseph Yuan-Chieh Lo

Professor in Radiology

### Piotr E. Marszalek

Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Investigating relationships between structural and
mechanical properties of biopolymers (polysaccharides, DNA, proteins), at a
single molecule level.

### Amy Lynn McNulty

Associate Professor in Orthopaedic Surgery

### Angel V Peterchev

Associate Professor in Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences

### Timothy E Reddy

Associate Professor of Biostatistics & Bioinformatics,

### Ehsan Samei

Reed and Martha Rice Distinguished Professor of Radiology

### John Howard Sampson

Robert H., M.D. and Gloria Wilkins Professor of Neurosurgery, in the School of
Medicine

### Guillermo Sapiro

James B. Duke Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering

Research Interests: Image and video processing, computer vision, computer
graphics, computational vision, biomedical imaging, brain imaging, cryo-
tomography of viruses, computational tools in cryo-tomography, computational
tools in early diagnosis of psychiatric disorders, differential geometry and…

### Christoph F. Schmidt

Hertha Sponer Distinguished Professor of Physics

### William Paul Segars

Associate Professor in Radiology

### Allen W Song

Professor in Radiology

### Derek Southwell

Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery

### Bruce Alan Sullenger

Joseph W. and Dorothy W. Beard Distinguished Professor of Experimental Surgery

### Martin Paul Tornai

Associate Professor of Radiology

### Cynthia Ann Toth

Joseph A.C. Wadsworth Distinguished Professor of Ophthalmology

### Kris Cameron Wood

Associate Professor of Pharmacology and Cancer Biology

### Christopher Wildrick Woods

Professor of Medicine

### Benjamin Yellen

Associate Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science

Research Interests: Development of single cell analysis tools using magnetic
circuits, and multiparticle assembly of colloidal crystals

### Michael Rod Zalutsky

Jonathan Spicehandler, M.D. Distinguished Professor of Neuro Oncology, in the
School of Medicine

### Stefan Zauscher

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Nano-mechanical and nano-tribological characterization
(elasticity, friction, adhesion) of materials including organic thin films;
self-assembled monolayers, polymeric gels, and cellulosics; Fabrication of
polymeric nanostructures by scanning probe lithography; Colloidal probe…

### Pei Zhong

Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science

Research Interests: Mechanistic investigation and technology development in
shock wave and laser lithotripsy; Ultrasound-elicited mechanotransduction,
neuromodulation and sonogenetics; HIFU and immunotherapy for cancer treatment;
Acoustic and optical cavitation.

## Research Faculty

### Cameron R. Bass

Associate Research Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Biomechanics of blast, blunt and ballistic trauma and
pediatric trauma. His research focuses on injury risk from microscale to
macroscale for the head, neck, thorax and extremities.

### Brian T Crouch

Assistant Research Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Developing novel, low cost technologies for cancer
diagnostics and therapeutics with applications in resource limited settings.
Particular focus on innovative strategies to induce a robust anti-tumor immune
response following ablative therapy.

### Al-Hafeez Z Dhalla

Assistant Research Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Biomedical optics, especially optical coherence
tomography, scanning laser ophthalmoscopy and LiDAR, applied to the diagnostic
imaging, image guided surgery and robotic microsurgery.

### Shengli Ding

Assistant Research Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

### Bryan Howell

Assistant Research Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Biophysical deconstruction of evoked potentials to
subcallosal and subthalamic DBS. Predictive modeling of DBS for targeting and
parameter optimization. Combinatorial and interferential strategies for tES.
Personalized, home-based administration of tES.

### Nahid Iglesias

Assistant Research Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

### Bruce Klitzman

Associate Research Professor of Biomedical Engineering

### Teng Su

Assistant Professor in Medicine

Research Interests: My research interests focus on leveraging stem cells and
micro- and nano-bioengineering technologies to manipulate and integrate
spatiotemporal cues into novel therapeutic platforms that can alter
pathological cardiac microenvironment and encourage tissue regeneration.

## Adjunct Faculty

### Ravi Venkat Bellamkonda

Adjunct Professor of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Engineered devices for brain tumor therapy;
immunomodulation for peripheral and central nervous system repair;
biomaterials; brain-machine interfaces.

### Peter C Johnson

Adjunct Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

### Roger W Nightingale

Adjunct Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering

### Jennifer L West

Fitzpatrick Family University Distinguished Professor of Engineering

Research Interests: Biomaterials, nanotechnology and tissue engineering that
involves the synthesis, development, and application of novel biofunctional
materials, and the use of biomaterials and engineering approaches to study
biological problems.

## Consulting Faculty

### Blake Shaw Wilson

Adjunct Professor in the Department of Head and Neck Surgery & Communication
Sciences

## Executives in Residence

### Joseph A Knight

Executive in Residence in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

## Instructors

### Kevin Michael Caves

Clinical Associate in the Department of Head and Neck Surgery & Communication
Sciences

### Kristy Fearis

Instructor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

## Lecturing Fellows

### Charles Wallace

Lecturing Fellow, Senior in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

## Faculty Emeritus

### Howard G. Clark

Professor Emeritus of Biomedical Engineering and Materials Science

### Morton Friedman

Professor Emeritus of Biomedical Engineering

### Robert A. Malkin

Professor of Practice Emeritus in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Research and development of medical equipment in the
developing world.

### Wanda Krassowska Neu

Professor Emeritus of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Electroporation-mediated drug delivery and gene therapy;
Control of cardiac arrhythmias using nonlinear dynamics

### William M. Reichert

Professor Emeritus of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Biosensors, protein mediated cell adhesion, and wound
healing.

### Stephen William Smith

Professor Emeritus of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Development and evaluation of improved medical ultrasound
image quality for applications in cardiology, radiology and obstetrics.
Advances in image quality result from improvements in the spatial resolution
and signal-to-noise ratio of diagnostic ultrasound scanners through…

## A Decade of Trailblazing

Explore highlights of Duke BME scholarship in our 2008-2018 Nature Reprint
Collection »

## Podcast

Listen to a podcast from Duke Engineering, dedicated to the ingenious ways
that engineers are solving society's toughest problems.

Listen & subscribe

## News from Duke BME

April 14, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Integrated Design Challenge Restores Balance to the Force

March 28, 2023 | **_Duke Institute for Brain Sciences_**

### At DIBS, Duke Alumni Get a Look into the Brain

March 20, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

View all news

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

