Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Duke BME Research

Translating fundamental advances into improvements in the diagnosis and
treatment of disease

The department's proximity to Duke University Medical Center has fostered a
highly interdisciplinary approach. Duke BME engineers work closely with Duke's
biological scientists and physicians.

These collaborations are enhanced by the innovative Duke-Coulter Translational
Medicine Partnership.

## Major Research Programs

Our undergraduate and graduate students conduct research with the guidance of
Duke BME faculty researchers—a community of innovators that includes many
winners of prestigious scientific awards.

In one of the clearest hallmarks of faculty excellence, sponsored research at
Duke BME has grown more than 60 percent over the last five years.

## Research News

March 20, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Gigapixel 3D Microscope Captures Life in Unprecedented Detail

February 23, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Big Ideas on Small Scales with Jay Dalton

February 13, 2023 | **_Duke Engineering_**

### Segura Named Co-Director of the Duke Center for Biomolecular and Tissue
Engineering

View all research news

### Bioelectric Engineering

Spanning a range of length scales from the ion-channel to the organ level,
with a focus on development of realistic models of cardiac muscle

### Biomaterials

Including the molecular design of soft materials, nanomaterials, immune-active
materials and scaffolds for tissue engineering

### Biomechanics and Mechanobiology

Focusing on mechanics at and across the molecular, cellular, tissue and organ
levels

### Biomedical and Health Data Sciences

Developing innovative data science, machine learning, and digital health
modeling approaches to transform multi-scale biomedical data into actionable
insights

### Biomedical Imaging and Biophotonics

Advancing the physics and mathematical theory of imaging, image acquisition
and image processing, hardware design and clinical applications

### Biosensors and Bioinstrumentation

Utilizing recent advances in biochemistry, electronics, omics and physiology
to develop novel diagnostic, therapeutic and prosthetic devices

### Computational Modeling of Biological Systems

Using modeling, simulation, high-performance computing and data analysis to
create testable hypotheses about mechanisms driving complex biological
functions

### Drug and Gene Delivery

Understanding and developing new strategies aimed at therapies for cancer,
infectious and cardiovascular disease, muscle disease, and gastrointestinal
disease

### Immune Engineering

Designing novel vaccines and technologies for tissue engineering and treatment
of wounds, chronic inflammation and cancer

### Neural Engineering

Developing new tools and methods to enable fundamental research on the nervous
system, as well as treatments for neurological disorders

### Synthetic and Systems Biology

Including development of new strategies for regenerative medicine, treatment
of genetic disease and techniques to establish robust gene circuit function

### Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine

Investigating technologies from biomaterial/cell constructs for repairing
various tissues and organs, to stem cell therapies, to immune therapies

## Clinical Application Areas

View faculty by area:

Anesthesiology

Brain Injury

Cancer

Cardiology

Dermatology

Diabetes

Gastroenterology

Global Health

Hematology

Hepatology

Immunology

Infectious Diseases

Metabolism

Myology

Nephrology

Neurology and Neurosurgery

Obstetrics and Gynecology

Ophthalmology

Orthopaedics

Pathology

Pediatrics

Personalized Medicine

Pulmonology

Radiology

Rheumatology

Surgery

Toxicology

Trauma Prevention and Treatment

Urology

### Mark L. Palmeri

Professor of the Practice in the Department of Biomedical Engineering

Research Interests: Ultrasonic imaging, specifically using acoustic radiation
force to characterize the mechanical properties of tissue, and finite element
analysis of soft tissue response to impulsive radiation force excitation.
Other research interests include ultrasonic bioeffects and mechanical…

## Computing | Materials Science | Resilience

Learn how Duke is investing in team-based discovery science and technology to
benefit people and the planet »

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

