Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Master's Profile: Janelle Balesh

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Masters
  3. Outcomes

Janelle Balesh

 **Current Position:** Mechanical Engineer for GE Healthcare Global Ultrasound
Probes

**Undergraduate Degree:** Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering from
Baylor University, 2014

**BME Master’s Program Path:** MEng in Biomedical Engineering–Biomechanics
track, 2014-2015

### What do you do at your work?

I am in the Edison Engineering Development Program at GE Healthcare. Within my
first year, I worked on research and development to combat the primary failure
modes of our next-generation CT scanner’s X-ray tube components. I also used
3D modeling and rapid prototyping to design hardware for the detachable
patient table for our MRI system. I currently work on the CT Clinical
Applications team developing protocols for safe and effective radiation dose
and designing accessories to make the patient scanning experience more
comfortable.

### How did your time at Duke prepare you for your current job?

Duke provided me with a strong educational foundation and network to begin my
career in engineering. The courses I took enhanced my skillset in design and
knowledge of life sciences. The Master of Engineering (MEng) program itself
provided several valuable resources to answer my questions and guide me in the
right direction to pursue the career path I wanted in the medical industry.

### What was the most valuable part of your Duke experience?

I found that the passion the professors had for their research and courses
made my learning experience at Duke extremely rewarding. Because they really
loved the science they taught, I loved learning it. I also enjoyed being
involved in the Master of Engineering Engagement Committee because it added a
good balance of social activity to my life at Duke. I made great friends from
this organization and from the program, and I still keep in contact with them
today. E-socials with other Duke graduate students were a great way to unwind
at the end of a week of studying, too!

### What were the most useful courses you took at Duke?

Project-based design courses such as Biomedical Device Innovation, Tissue
Engineering, and Viscoelastic Biomechanics were the most useful courses
because of their applications in industry. Biomedical Device Innovation
challenged me to work cross-functionally with students from other majors,
recognize and design devices that had market-potential, and gave me first-hand
exposure to the medical field by allowing me to shadow physicians at Duke
University Medical Center. I use the skills I learned from this course
frequently at work.

### What advice would you give to someone considering a master’s degree in BME
at Duke?

Duke is an excellent place to be because you will constantly be challenged by
bright minds, and you’ll have the opportunity to engage in networking,
sporting, and social events. Take advantage of the resources you have
available to you, and enjoy your time at Duke!

Learn More about our grads

____

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Master's Contacts

### Sina Farsiu

Director, Master's Studies

__pratt_masters@duke.edu

### Paul J. Fearis

Associate Director, Master's Studies

__paul.fearis@duke.edu

### Bev Gedvillas

Master's Program Coordinator

__919-660-5132

__beverly.gedvillas@duke.edu

### Admissions

Have a question about the program or admissions? Contact the **Admissions &
Recruiting team** at pratt_masters@duke.edu.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

