Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Master's Profile: Jasmine Roddey

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Masters
  3. Outcomes

Jasmine Roddey

 **Current Position:** Global Safety Senior Associate at Amgen, Inc.

**Undergraduate Degree:** Bachelor of Science in Bioengineering, Syracuse
University, 2014

**Duke BME Master’s Program Path:** Master of Science in Biomedical
Engineering, 2014-2016

### What work do you do?

I support Global Patient Safety at biopharmaceutical maker Amgen, Inc., as the
safety reporting and signal management process subject matter expert for Amgen
Digital Health. Most of my projects interrogate real world data to inform and
supplement routine and _ad hoc_ pharmaco-vigilance activities here at Amgen,
while others center around developing tools to facilitate how patients and
health care providers interact with our products.

### How did your time at Duke prepare you for your current job?

My time at Duke gave me a greater sense of who I wanted to be as a person, the
impact I wanted to make in the world, and how I might go about doing that in a
business setting. The problem-solving and leadership skills I developed as a
Duke Engineering student have enabled me to head several novel, innovative
cross-functional projects, even as an early career professional. I am excited
for what lies ahead and am grateful to my professors, colleagues, family
members, and friends who helped make this a possibility for me.

### What was the most valuable part of your Duke experience?

There is no doubt that I received a world-class education at Duke, but when I
look back at my Duke experience, what I remember most fondly is the community
I was able to cultivate on campus. I broke bread with some of the greatest
young minds from Duke Divinity School, Duke Law School, Duke School of
Medicine, Fuqua School of Business, Duke Global Health Institute, Pratt School
of Engineering, and Sanford School of Public Policy.

Individually, we were leaders in our respective fields. But collectively, we
bonded both intellectually and emotionally in support of one another on a
personal level and also on a corporate level, working to effect change at Duke
and in the greater Durham neighborhood. Being surrounded by such great leaders
and sharing in their journey, celebrating their victories and acknowledging
how much they had to overcome to get to where they are today, has been
incredibly inspiring.

### What were the most useful courses that you took at Duke?

The flexible curriculum for Master of Science (MS) candidates in biomedical
engineering at Duke, along with extracurricular learning opportunities, helped
me to navigate the field of biotechnology from a global perspective. This
perspective was shaped by a number of courses: BME 562 - Biology by Design,
where I collaborated with a team of my peers on a mock NIH grant proposal for
a novel cancer biologic; MOLCAN 819 - Cancer as a Disease, where I stepped out
of the arena of biomedical research to appreciate a patient-centric approach
to the study of cancer; BME 577 - Drug Transport Analysis, where I was
challenged to be the subject matter expert for the class on a drug delivery
method; BME 791 - Independent Study, where I took ownership of a research
project in one of Duke's cutting-edge laboratories, and PHARM 835 -
Innovations in Drug Development, where I learned about what it takes to get a
drug from lead optimization to clinical trials to health care providers and
patients and had the opportunity to work with an interdisciplinary team on a
mock FDA proposal for a novel gene-based therapeutic.

In addition to these courses, I was also afforded a unique opportunity to
participate in the Duke IHI Quality Scholars Program (QISP). This program, a
collaborative effort with Duke Health, was completely outside of my comfort
zone, and for that reason it really pushed me to demonstrate leadership and to
cultivate interdisciplinary strategy. As this project was based in Duke
University Hospital, I was able to leverage my skillset as a biomedical
engineer to contribute to a change initiative that identified pain points in
hospital workflows and ultimately sought to improve the patient experience.
This exposure has been a cornerstone for my transition from student researcher
to biotechnology professional.

### What advice would you give to someone considering a master’s degree in BME
at Duke?

The 1.5 to 2 years it takes to complete your master's degree at Duke will fly
by, so you really want to make the most of your time. Take advantage of the
endless academic resources, build relationships with your professors and
department admins, join a lab, spend time with your peers outside of your
class and research hours, challenge yourself to do something outside of the
norm.

Learn More about our grads

____

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Master's Contacts

### Sina Farsiu

Director, Master's Studies

__pratt_masters@duke.edu

### Paul J. Fearis

Associate Director, Master's Studies

__paul.fearis@duke.edu

### Bev Gedvillas

Master's Program Coordinator

__919-660-5132

__beverly.gedvillas@duke.edu

### Admissions

Have a question about the program or admissions? Contact the **Admissions &
Recruiting team** at pratt_masters@duke.edu.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

