Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Master's Profile: Jerrod Brown

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Masters
  3. Outcomes

Jerrod Brown

 **Current Position:** Medical Device Assembler at Boston Scientific

**Undergraduate Degree:** Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering,
Clemson University, 2012

**Duke BME Master’s Program Path:** MEng in Biomedical
Engineering–Bioengineering track, 2015-2016

### Why did you choose Duke for your graduate study?

What made me chose Duke was its reputation for academic excellence and its
goal of helping each student maximize his or her own potential. Duke is
internationally recognized for its BME program, so going to Duke was an easy
choice for me. I also wanted to go to a university where there was a lot of
diversity, and Duke fulfilled that goal.

### What has been the most valuable part of your educational experience at
Duke?

The most valuable parts of my educational experience at Duke are the
relationships I built with professors, faculty members and fellow graduate
students. My professors were mentors who helped to guide me through decisions
I needed to make. The time I spent with my other graduate students was
incredibly valuable to me. After a long day in lab or working on a project, we
would go hang out and grab some food. Duke does a great job of fostering the
"one big family” atmosphere.

### Which courses have been the most useful to you?

The course that was the most helpful to me was MENG 570 - Business
Fundamentals for Engineers. I would like to start my own business one day, and
this course was particularly helpful.

### What is your research project/ internship?

I chose to intern at Nano Screen LLC, a company located in Charleston, SC,
that specializes in the design and manufacture of automated liquid handling
systems. My internship involved designing a gripper system that could be
implemented into their existing system. The project required that I go through
the design process to determine what would be feasible under the set list of
requirements. What made my project so great was that I drew on a lot of the
information and skills I learned in many of my classes.

### What advice would you give to someone who is considering applying to the
Duke BME master’s degree program?

I encourage students to have a few goals in mind and a timetable to accomplish
those goals. Your time as a master’s student is so short; you will only be at
Duke for 1.5 to 2 years, so it’s important to take advantage of the
opportunities and resources you have available.

Learn More about our Grads

____

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Master's Contacts

### Sina Farsiu

Director, Master's Studies

__pratt_masters@duke.edu

### Paul J. Fearis

Associate Director, Master's Studies

__paul.fearis@duke.edu

### Bev Gedvillas

Master's Program Coordinator

__919-660-5132

__beverly.gedvillas@duke.edu

### Admissions

Have a question about the program or admissions? Contact the **Admissions &
Recruiting team** at pratt_masters@duke.edu.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

