Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Master's Profile: Jordan Ekaidat

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Masters
  3. Outcomes

Jordan Ekaidat

 **Current Position:** Data Scientist at WOO Sports

**Undergraduate Degree:** Bachelor of Science in Physiology and Neuroscience,
University of California, San Diego, 2015

**Duke BME Master’s Program Path:** MEng in Biomedical
Engineering–Biomechanics track, 2015-2016

### What work do you do?

I work as a data scientist for WOO Sports, an action sports startup in Boston.
We developed a sensor for action sports athletes that can detect the trick
they do and give them a score for their execution. In short, we are bringing
the experience of a video game to real-life for athletes in board sports, like
surfing or skateboarding. My role on the team has been to create the system
used to detect tricks from the WOO sensor data. This has allowed me to travel
all over the United States and Europe, and gave me the opportunity to work
with some of the best action sports athletes in the world. My education at
Duke prepared me both for the startup life and provided me with the skills
necessary to step up as a leader in the workplace.

### How did your time at Duke prepare you for your current job?

My time at Duke was invaluable for preparing me for my current role. A friend
in my research group helped me find WOO Sports during my internship search and
the Masters of Engineering curriculum helped me develop important skills in
entrepreneurship, preparing me for work in startups. My time as an Duke
student allowed me to work on research projects that helped me hone skills
useful for my project at work.

### Tell us about your research

As an MEng student I worked with a research group studying nonlinear modeling
of physiological systems in response to exercise. The project I worked on
involved creating a nonlinear dynamical model of heart rate and VO2 response
to exercise, and using an optimization routine to predict a person’s heart-
rate max and VO2 max. I was responsible for tuning model parameters to provide
best fit for the input data when compared to the model. I also worked on a
project using an IMU sensor to detect the onset of fatigue in athletes as they
progress through their exercise routine. This experience with IMU sensor data
to measure biomechanics over time provided me with the foundation I needed to
make an impact at WOO Sports.

### What was the most valuable part of your Duke experience?

The most valuable part of my Duke experience was the immense pride and passion
that everyone has about the campus. From an academic perspective, I would
often find myself after class chatting about cool ideas I have with my
professors, who both encouraged me to pursue them and often connected me with
someone to helped me get it done. This is how I got involved in my research
project at Duke, and I believe this opportunity is available to anybody at
Duke who has a passion they wish to pursue.

From an extracurricular perspective, the passion and pride that students have
at Duke helped shape my time at the University. The people who Duke invites
into their master’s programs are truly outstanding and interesting
individuals, and I have often found myself so impressed and inspired by the
experiences my peers have had. I formed strong bonds with my friends at Duke,
and even though it was only a relatively short amount of time I feel I have
developed lifelong friendships with them.

### What were the most useful courses that you took?

The most useful class I took was a special topics course – ME 555: Dynamical
Modeling of Exercise and Fitness. This class was directly in line with what I
am passionate about, and truly engaged and challenged me in ways other classes
couldn’t at Duke. Additionally, the class was taught by Brian Mann, a
professor of mechanical engineering at Duke. I completed my research in Dr.
Mann’s lab, so this class was responsible for shaping my academic career at
Duke.

### What advice would you give to someone considering a master’s degree in BME
at Duke?

I encourage anyone pursuing a MS degree in BME at Duke to push themselves out
of their comfort zone. The university has so many resources and so many
passionate people that are willing to help. If you are truly passionate about
something, there is sure to be someone at Duke who shares that with you and is
willing to help you get involved in a project or club. Aside from academics,
make sure to put yourself out there socially as well. Duke has so many social
activities to offer, from awesome sporting events to weekly social hours and
other events set up by the master’s program. If you take advantage of
everything Duke has to offer, your experience will be well worth it.

Learn More about our Grads

____

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Master's Contacts

### Sina Farsiu

Director, Master's Studies

__pratt_masters@duke.edu

### Paul J. Fearis

Associate Director, Master's Studies

__paul.fearis@duke.edu

### Bev Gedvillas

Master's Program Coordinator

__919-660-5132

__beverly.gedvillas@duke.edu

### Admissions

Have a question about the program or admissions? Contact the **Admissions &
Recruiting team** at pratt_masters@duke.edu.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

