Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Master's Profile: Li Wang

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Masters
  3. Outcomes

Li Wang

 **Current Position:** Research and Development Engineer at Amgen in San
Francisco, Calif.

**Undergraduate Degree:** Bachelor of Science in Biomedical Engineering from
Fudan University in Shanghai, China, 2013

**BME Master’s Program Path:** Master of Science in Biomedical Engineering
2013-2015

### What work do you do?

I am developing gene regulation tools for Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR)
T-Cell Therapy at Amgen. These cells are very effective at treating certain
forms of cancer that occur in our B-cells, which are cells that defend our
body against infection. However, CAR T-cell therapies still have a lot of
safety concerns, so there is critical need to develop reversible gene
regulation tools. At Amgen, I design and test different vectors as well as
gene regulation tools for CAR-T therapy at different levels. I also apply
CRISPR screens for primary T-cells to improve specificity of the latest
immunotherapy tools.

### How did your time at Duke prepare you for your current job?

My department's responsibility at Amgen is to discover and develop cutting
edge biotechnologies to support all the other therapeutic areas, so being able
to quickly learn new technologies is required for this challenging job.
Luckily, I was exposed to all the exciting new fields in bioengineering during
my time as a Duke BME master's student. I was not only taught basic knowledge,
but equipped with the ability to learn new biotechnologies in a quick and
efficient way.

### What was the most valuable part of your Duke experience?

The culture on campus was very helpful to me. Duke BME has some of the best
professors in biomedical engineering, so the work was always engaging and
challenging. But we also have one of the best college basketball teams in the
country. In the same day we could spend hours doing work in our lab, and then
later camp outside Cameron Stadium to get a seat for the big Duke-UNC
basketball game. Duke encourages you to find work-life balance, which helped
me to adapt the fast pace of life in the professional world without any
difficulty.

### What were the most useful courses that you took?

BME 574-Modeling and Engineering Gene Circuits was one of the most useful
courses I took in Duke. My professor, Lingchong You us all the quantitative
methods engineers can use to solve relatively complicated problems in biology.
That course gave me a good foundation, and I learned a lot about computational
biology. This gave me a better understanding of cell signaling dynamics and
cell-to-cell communication patterns – all of which have proven to be quite
useful in my current work.

### What advice can you give to international students coming to Duke for grad
school?

Duke BME is one of the best in the world. So, if you are interested in tissue
engineering, biomedical devices or advanced biomaterials, then I encourage you
to consider this great master’s program. In addition to the academic benefits,
I felt that the Duke community was very friendly toward international
students. My academic advisor, Fan Yuan, supported me all through my time at
Duke. He paid a lot attention to international student career development,
even after graduation. There were also lots of international festivals and
events held by Duke students in campus, which made me feel at home. And, if
you’re a college basketball fan like me, there is no other choice but Duke.
Let’s go Duke!

Learn More about our grads

____

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Master's Contacts

### Sina Farsiu

Director, Master's Studies

__pratt_masters@duke.edu

### Paul J. Fearis

Associate Director, Master's Studies

__paul.fearis@duke.edu

### Bev Gedvillas

Master's Program Coordinator

__919-660-5132

__beverly.gedvillas@duke.edu

### Admissions

Have a question about the program or admissions? Contact the **Admissions &
Recruiting team** at pratt_masters@duke.edu.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

