Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Master's Profile: Madhurima Vardhan

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Masters
  3. Outcomes

Madhurima Vardhan

 **Current position:** PhD student at Duke University

**Undergraduate Degree:** Bachelor of Engineering from Delhi Technological
University in Delhi, India, 2013

**BME Master’s Program Path:** Master of Science in Biomedical Engineering,
2013-2015

### Why did you choose Duke for your graduate study?

Duke encourages collaborative research that extends beyond campus boundaries,
and this collaborative environment fosters a diverse culture and rich cross-
disciplinary opportunities. The moderate size of graduate programs meant more
personalized and involved classes with flexible academic curriculum that could
be tailored to my interests and needs. Although the research-based graduate
training at Duke is easily applicable to academia, it can also be applied to
any job that requires innovative thinking and creative application. All of
these factors allowed for a valuable graduate experience.

### What were the most valuable parts of your educational experience at Duke?

There was much I enjoyed as a master’s student at Duke, but I think the most
valuable parts were knowledge I gained and the professional relationships I
developed. Duke fosters an intellectually stimulating environment, and
everyone here was working in pursuit of a common purpose – to innovate and
discover.

### What courses were the most useful?

I found BME 590 - Special Topics: Computational Foundations in Biomedical
Simulations, to be incredibly helpful. The course enabled access to highly
advanced computer centers, and it covered state-of-the-art applications of
massively parallel algorithms in medical sciences with guest lectures from
leaders in the field. By the end of the course I could write a working
parallel code with a practical biomedical application.

The other course that was immensely helpful was BME 790 - Advanced Topics:
Biomedical Device Innovation. Providing access to Duke University Hospital,
the course enabled students to shadow physicians and come up with a detailed
need-specification statement for a novel medical device of their own. During
the course, I gained experience in the process of conceptualization of idea,
team collaboration and industry-based partnership.

### What advice can you give to international students coming to Duke for grad
school?

I encourage students to be upbeat and enthusiastic as they start their work,
and to take advantage of the excellent mentoring Duke provides. You don’t need
to immediately have a laser-focused research interest, and professors and
fellow graduate students are a great support group who can help you refine and
specialize your interests as you progress through the program. Duke’s diverse
and intellectually stimulating environment gives you a lot to be excited
about.

### How did your Duke BME Master's experience prepare you for a PhD program?

Before I committed myself to a PhD, I wanted to be sure that I was capable of
handling the demanding research. My subsequent interactions with faculty
members at Duke gave me the confidence I needed to pursue a PhD that I didn’t
have before starting my master’s degree. The Duke BME master’s program showed
me the value of a research-oriented mindset, and it proved to me that
dedicated time and effort are indispensable investments for a successful
research project.

### What advice do you have for students going on to a PhD after obtaining
their master's?

I would recommend pursuing more research experience. I also think it’s
important to discuss your plans with your graduate advisors and professors.
Current PhD students are excellent resources for people who are interested in
pursuing a PhD. Not only can they give you advice about how they prepared for
their own PhD programs, but they can also give you more realistic insights
about what to expect and how to stay motived and driven, even when things get
challenging.

Learn More about our grads

____

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Master's Contacts

### Sina Farsiu

Director, Master's Studies

__pratt_masters@duke.edu

### Paul J. Fearis

Associate Director, Master's Studies

__paul.fearis@duke.edu

### Bev Gedvillas

Master's Program Coordinator

__919-660-5132

__beverly.gedvillas@duke.edu

### Admissions

Have a question about the program or admissions? Contact the **Admissions &
Recruiting team** at pratt_masters@duke.edu.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

