Skip to main content

  * Duke University »
  * Pratt School of Engineering »

## Secondary Menu

  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Contact

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Program
        2. Enrollment and Graduation Rates
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. Campus Tours
        5. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Curriculum
        2. Double Majors
        3. BME Design Fellows

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students
        2. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree

  * Master's
    *       1. Admissions
        1. Degree Programs
        2. Career Outcomes
        3. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Concentrations
        3. Certificates

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * PhD
    *       1. Admissions
        1. PhD Program
        2. Meet Our Students
        3. Career Outcomes
        4. How to Apply

      2. Academics
        1. Courses
        2. Certificates & Training Programs

      3. Student Resources
        1. For Current Students

  * Research
    *       1. Major Research Programs
      2. Centers & Initiatives
      3. Research News
  * Faculty
    *       1. Faculty Profiles
      2. Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    *       1. The Duke-Coulter Partnership
      2. Proposal Process
      3. Project Archive
      4. Oversight Committee
      5. FAQs
  * About
    *       1. Welcome from the Chair
      2. Vision & Mission
      3. Facts & Stats
      4. Serving Society
      5. News
        1. Media Coverage
        2. Duke BME Magazine
        3. Email Newsletter

      6. Events
        1. Seminars

      7. Our History
      8. Driving Directions

# Master's Profile: Tushar Krishnan

## Breadcrumb

  1. Home
  2. Masters
  3. Outcomes

Tushar Krishnan

 **Current Position:** Associate in Research at Duke University

**Undergraduate Degree:** Bachelor of Technology in Biotechnology from the
Indian Institute of Technology in Guwahati, India, 2013

**BME Master’s Program Path:** Master of Science in Biomedical Engineering,
2016

### Why did you choose Duke for your graduate study?

The interdisciplinary nature of the program coupled with the flexibility in
choosing coursework attracted me to Duke. In addition to that, Duke's stature
as a pioneer in biomedical innovation and the strong collaborations between
the BME department and Duke University Medical Center helped me decide that
Duke was where I wanted to continue my education.

### Why was the most valuable part of your Duke experience?

From a professional standpoint, the real world experience gained through some
of the course projects was very valuable. These experiences included
interacting with the different stakeholders in the lifecycle of a medical
device – developing and testing prototypes of devices and tackling real-world
problems. In addition to being a fun and compelling experience, it was also
integral to making me a more technically adept and more complete biomedical
engineer. From a personal standpoint, I would say my interactions with the
diverse set of people from different cultures and walks of life at Duke is
something I will always cherish.

### What were the most useful courses you took at Duke?

BME 590 - Biomedical Device Innovations was a unique and helpful experience.
It was a very holistic course on how to innovate in the medical device field,
which will be useful as I advance professionally. Also, BME 590L - Intro to
Finite Element Analysis, and BME 590 - Mobile Devices for Biomedical
Engineering, were industry-oriented class projects that helped me learn skills
that were beneficial, both during my internship and for my research project.

### Please describe your project and internship in the MS BME program.

My research project, with my faculty adviser Tuan Vo-Dinh, was concerned with
the development of a smartphone-based device that performed colorimetric
analysis for rapid medical diagnostics. I was responsible for designing the
device, building the app to manage the device, rapid prototyping of the device
with 3D printing, and testing the device. The testing was performed with a
colorimetric assay developed in the group that is used for analyzing nucleic
acid biomarkers, especially biomarkers for cancer.

### Tell us about your internship.

My internship was at Boston Scientific Corporation (BSC) at their
neuromodulation facility in Valencia, Calif. As an R&D intern, I focused on
deep brain stimulation computational modeling. My work involved developing
algorithms, building finite element models and analyzing them. It resulted in
an accepted conference technical poster. The work was challenging and the
environment at BSC was collaborative and stimulating.

### What advice would you give to someone considering a master’s degree in BME
at Duke?

There is a lot one can do while pursuing an master's degree in BME. Try to
experience all the different aspects of biomedical engineering that the
department offers through coursework, projects and research. If you are
undecided about pursuing the thesis or project path for your degree, it’s OK
to give it some time because you’ll eventually find something that excites
you. I also encourage students to join a group/lab for research as soon as
possible. Practical class projects and lab work make your profile stronger for
industry opportunities.

And, socializing with fellow students over beer and soda outside on the
Engineering Quad on Friday evenings is very relaxing, especially after a busy
week!

Learn More about our grads

____

## Join our mailing list!

Sign up to receive more information about Duke Engineering graduate programs
and recruitment events »

## Master's Contacts

### Sina Farsiu

Director, Master's Studies

__pratt_masters@duke.edu

### Paul J. Fearis

Associate Director, Master's Studies

__paul.fearis@duke.edu

### Bev Gedvillas

Master's Program Coordinator

__919-660-5132

__beverly.gedvillas@duke.edu

### Admissions

Have a question about the program or admissions? Contact the **Admissions &
Recruiting team** at pratt_masters@duke.edu.

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University

drupal_block( 'search_form_block', { label_display: false } )

  * Undergraduate
    * Admissions
      * Degree Program
      * Enrollment and Graduation Rates
      * Career Outcomes
      * Campus Tours
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Curriculum
      * Double Majors
      * BME Design Fellows
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
      * 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
  * Master's
    * Admissions
      * Degree Programs
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Concentrations
      * Certificates
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * PhD
    * Admissions
      * PhD Program
      * Meet Our Students
      * Career Outcomes
      * How to Apply
    * Academics
      * Courses
      * Certificates & Training Programs
    * Student Resources
      * For Current Students
  * Research
    * Major Research Programs
    * Centers & Initiatives
    * Research News
  * Faculty
    * Faculty Profiles
    * Awards & Recognition
  * Coulter
    * The Duke-Coulter Partnership
    * Proposal Process
    * Project Archive
    * Oversight Committee
    * FAQs
  * About
    * Welcome from the Chair
    * Vision & Mission
    * Facts & Stats
    * Serving Society
    * News
      * Media Coverage
      * Duke BME Magazine
      * Email Newsletter
    * Events
      * Seminars
        * Past Seminars
    * Our History
    * Driving Directions

