

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Natasha Litchinitser: Structuring Materials to Control Light

March 27, 2018 | By Ken Kingery

New faculty member Natasha Litchinitser brings expertise in engineering
materials to manipulate visible light waves to Duke’s pioneering metamaterials
group

Natalia “Natasha” Litchinitser will join the faculty of the Department of
Electrical and Computer Engineering at Duke University beginning August 1,
2018. With a strong portfolio of past and current projects that seek to
manipulate light through engineered materials, Litchinitser joins a formidable
group of researchers studying metamaterials at Duke.

A metamaterial is an artificial material that manipulates waves like light and
sound through its structure rather than its chemistry. Researchers can design
these materials to have rare or unnatural properties, like the ability to
absorb very specific ranges of the electromagnetic spectrum or bend light
backward.

Litchinitser’s primary focus is on metamaterials that manipulate the visible
portion of the electromagnetic spectrum. It’s a specialty that she has been
developing since metamaterials were first discovered.

“I was working with fiber optics at Bell Labs when the first papers on
metamaterials started being published,” said Litchinitser, who joins Duke’s
faculty from the University at Buffalo. “When the field really started to take
off, I started doing my own theoretical studies, and it wasn’t long before
optical metamaterials became my primary focus.”

Litchinitser moved to the University of Michigan in 2005 where she began her
work with metamaterials as a research scientist before joining the faculty at
the University of Buffalo in 2008. Over the next decade, she became one of the
leading experts in optical metamaterials.

> I like the environment at Duke and how collaborative the faculty are. And
> nowhere else has so many people working on different types of metamaterials.

Her research has shown how metamaterials can be used to dynamically switch the
structure of a beam of light from a simple circular beam resembling water
flowing through a tube to a vortex that looks more like water going down a
drain. The ability to change the light’s structure in this way could be used
to encode information through multiplexing, a process that allows multiple
streams of data to share the same cable or airwaves.

More recently, Litchinitser’s research has focused on topological photonics,
which seeks to direct light around tight corners using tiny waveguides that
don’t lose any photons to scattering. Another project uses mathematical models
to design very different structures which scatter light in exactly the same
way. Both projects hold the potential to improve light-based computer and
communication systems. She’s also using metamaterials to focus microwave beams
to power sensors embedded in a person’s body to monitor the growth or
shrinkage of tumors.

While her approaches to metamaterials are not the same as her new Duke
colleagues’, Litchinitser sees many opportunities for collaboration.

“I’ve known about the metamaterials research going on at Duke for a long
time—David Smith is one of the top people in the world in metamaterials—so I’m
very excited to be joining them,” said Litchinitser. “I like the environment
at Duke and how collaborative the faculty are. And nowhere else has so many
people working on different types of metamaterials.

“Nobody else at Duke is working with structured light and light vortices, so
hopefully I can combine that work with what other people are doing,” continued
Litchinitser. “While there are others working on nonlinear effects in
microwave metamaterials, my work is focused on the optical frequency range,
making our research complimentary to that of other groups. But having people
to discuss it with is always helpful, which is why I’m looking forward to
developing collaborations with everyone in the Center for Metamaterials and
Integrated Plasmonics, including Nan Jokerst, Willie Padilla, Maiken Mikkelsen
and Steve Cummer.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

