

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# 2020 Duke Engineering Faculty & Staff Awards Announced

April 23, 2020

Each of the winners reminds us, especially now, that Duke Engineering remains
deeply committed to education, research and service.

While the world around us seems to shift almost instantaneously, there are
some encouraging constants in these challenging times—such as strength of our
research, the dedication of our staff and the quality of education we provide
our students.

I am proud to announce the winners of the 2020 Duke Engineering Faculty &
Staff Awards.

These outstanding individuals profiled below remind us that regardless of
external factors, we remain deeply committed to education, research and
service. Please join me in congratulating the winners!

****

**Prof. Ravi V. Bellamkonda**  
Vinik Dean of Engineering  

## Eric S. Richardson

Klein Family Distinguished Teaching Award

_Recognizes an outstanding educator nominated by engineering students and
selected by a faculty committee. These faculty inspire students to learn and
apply, engage students in the classroom and share their love of engineering._

**Eric Richardson's nominators** pointed to his significant efforts since
coming to Duke two years ago to expand and deepen entrepreneurial design
education—especially through new biomedical engineering (BME) design courses,
the department's medical device design certificate for master's students and
the Duke Design Health program. Richardson, an associate professor of the
practice in BME, was also praised for his own love of engineering design and
his passionate commitment to teaching. He regularly shares his industry
experience with students, who find his insights valuable as they plan their
own careers. As a mentor, one nominator wrote, "he takes time out of class to
make sure that we're on the right track."

## Ken Brown

Stansell Family Distinguished Research Award

_Given each year to an outstanding researcher nominated by the department
chairs and selected by a school committee. These faculty inspire their
colleagues, serve others, contribute to the knowledge base and have a deep
passion for their work._

**Nominators noted Ken's** far-reaching leadership in both the theoretical
study of quantum computation and the experimental investigation of cold
molecular ions. A nominator wrote: "These two approaches—theory and
experiment—are usually distinct because they require very different skill
sets. The integration of these approaches in Ken's research holds significant
potential for important discoveries." Brown, an associate professor in the
Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering (ECE), was also praised for
his productivity since coming to Duke two years ago. He published 25 journal
articles in 2018 and 2019 that have attracted over 200 citations. He is the
principal investigator of a Multidisciplinary University Research Initiative
(MURI) project supported by the Department of Defense and an Ideas Lab program
funded by the National Science Foundation.

## Rebecca Simmons

Capers & Marion McDonald Award for Excellence in Mentoring & Advising

_Recognizes an individual, while honoring all members of our Duke Engineering
community, who through excellence in mentoring and advising have nurtured and
guided students and colleagues, thereby helping build a better future._

**Faculty nominators estimated** that Rebecca Simmons sponsors about four
dozen students in independent study projects a year. "That alone is a
testimony to many things," a nominator said. "To her breadth of knowledge, her
willingness to spend time with students, and her fervent desire for students
to have an opportunity to learn and grow in the direction of their choosing
while being provided with expert mentorship." Rebecca, an associate professor
of the practice in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials
Science (MEMS), was praised for the sheer number of mentoring meetings that
she holds, each one tailored to a particular project and a specific student or
group of students. Nominators also noted that she has gone beyond the extra
mile, including co-hosting a podcast with students called This Engineering
Life, which seeks to connect with students and provide insights, resources,
and advice from peers and experts.

## Joel Collier

Lois & John L. Imhoff Distinguished Teaching Award

_Given to a member of the faculty in recognition of superior dedication to
undergraduate teaching—nominated by the engineering students and selected by a
school committee._

**Student nominators noted** that on the first day of a class, Joel Collier
takes nearly the whole class time getting to know the students, and helping
the students get to know each other. One wrote: "Not only did Dr. Collier show
a genuine interest in his students' lives in and outside of the classroom, but
I can confidently say I learned more about many of my peers in those 75
minutes than I have in the last three years." Collier, an associate professor
and director of graduate studies in BME, continues that relationship-building
throughout the semester. His undergraduate biomaterials courses, which he
jumped at the chance to revamp, are interactive and filled with real-life
examples and active student participation.

## Aaron Franklin

Capers & Marion McDonald Award for Excellence in Teaching & Research

_Recognizes the career achievements of an individual, while honoring all
engineering faculty, who through excellence in teaching and research have
challenged and nurtured students and contributed to growing humanity's
knowledge._

**Aaron Franklin has taught** both undergraduate and graduate courses in ECE
with impressive results. In just one example of his excellence in teaching, he
initiated the collaborative redesign of an ECE core course on microelectronic
devices. Launched in fall 2018, the changes to the class had an immediate
impact, as seen in significantly increased overall course evaluations. Beyond
the numbers, nominators said the James L. and Elizabeth M. Vincent Associate
Professor and director of graduate studies in ECE inspires and motivates
students as a passionate teacher and researcher. A student nominator noted
that he is always "clearly prepared for the class, easy to talk to, fair, and
genuinely invested in students." Students also appreciated his ability to
connect course topics to realistic research problems. As one student observed,
"He taught us more than what the formulas are, and gives a perspective of the
real world."

## Patrick McGuire

Dean's Award for Leadership in Program & Operational Excellence

_Given to a faculty member or staff leader who excels in managing and
enhancing programs that impact the Duke Engineering community. Considerations
for the award include operational excellence, responsiveness to program
participants and continuous improvement through the integration of new tools
and process innovations._

**Faculty, students and staff** in MEMS praised Patrick McGuire as a "can-do"
senior lab administrator who sees his work as service to colleagues. One
student wrote of his expertise with the 3D metal printer in The Foundry:
"Patrick has spent numerous hours supporting the printing of parts for myself
and other students, including spending time educating students on CAD design,
how to best design parts for 3D printing, and fabricating the parts. He has
taken this incredible resource that the department has and made it accessible
to students of all levels to use for their innovations." Other nominators
praised how he regularly goes above and beyond to support the requests of
students in the department to try new projects and iterate on their designs so
they can be most successful: "Patrick truly is the 'go-to-guy' in the
department."

Previous Award Winners  

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

