

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Simple Machine Learning Scorecard for Seizures is Saving Lives

December 4, 2019 | By Ken Kingery

Interpretable machine learning model helps doctors decide which stroke victims
require cEEG monitoring, simultaneously saving lives and millions of dollars

Computer scientists from Duke University and Harvard University have joined
with physicians from Massachusetts General Hospital and the University of
Wisconsin to develop a machine learning model that can predict which patients
are most at risk of having destructive seizures after suffering a stroke or
other brain injury.

A point system they’ve developed helps determine which patients should receive
expensive continuous electroencephalography (cEEG) monitoring. Implemented
nationwide, the authors say their model could help hospitals monitor nearly
three times as many patients, saving many lives as well as $54 million each
year.

A paper detailing the methods behind the interpretable machine learning
approach appeared online June 19 in the Journal of Machine Learning Research.

When a brain aneurysm leads to a brain bleed, much of the damage isn’t done in
just the first few hours, it accumulates over time as the patient experiences
seizures. But because the patient’s condition doesn’t allow them to show any
outward signs of distress, the only way to tell they are having seizures is
through an EEG. However, continuously monitoring a patient with this
technology is expensive and requires highly trained physicians to interpret
the readings.

Aaron Struck, assistant professor of neurology in the University of Wisconsin
School of Medicine and Public Health, and Brandon Westover, director of the
Critical Care EEG Monitoring Service at Massachusetts General Hospital, sought
to optimize these limited resources. Through the help of colleagues in the
Critical Care EEG Monitoring Research Consortium, they collected data on
dozens of variables from nearly 5,500 patients and got to work.

“We wanted a point system to decide who has greatest risk of having seizures,”
said Struck. “But when we tried traditional approaches to create one from the
data, we got stuck. That’s when we started working with Professor Rudin and
Dr. Ustun.”

Cynthia Rudin, professor of computer science and electrical and computer
engineering at Duke, and her former Ph. D. student, Berk Ustun, who is now a
postdoc at Harvard, specialize in interpretable machine learning. While most
machine learning models are a “black box” too complicated for a human to
understand, interpretable machine learning models are restricted to reporting
back in plain English.

Rudin and Ustun had already created a machine learning algorithm that produces
simple models called scoring systems for other applications. You might see
examples of scoring systems in teen magazines aimed at determining whether or
not your crush is returning your affections. (One point if they’ve texted you
in the past week, two if they’ve sat next to you in class.) Any combination
that adds up to more than 10 points means you’re destined for fireworks.

Except Rudin and Ustun’s scoring systems are based on a sophisticated
combination of optimization techniques called ‘cutting planes’ and ‘branch and
bound.’

For example, say you were looking for the bottom point on a bowl-shaped graph.
A traditional cutting plane method uses tangential lines to choose points that
quickly settle at its bottom like a snowboarder losing momentum in a half-
pipe. But if this method is asked to find the lowest point that is also a
whole number -- which the unrestricted answer is not likely to be -- it might
continue its search between the vast number of nearly acceptable answers
indefinitely.

To skirt this issue, Rudin and Ustun combined cutting plane optimization with
another called branch and bound, which cuts out a large part of the search.
The entire process then repeats until an optimal, interpretable answer is
produced.

Their method had already proven successful creating screening tests for sleep
apnea, Alzheimer’s disease and adult ADHD. Rudin and Ustun just had to refit
it to the cEEG data.

“This machine learning tool took seizure data from thousands of patients and
it produced a model called 2HELPS2B,” said Rudin. “And the great thing about
this model is that clinicians can memorize it just by knowing its name. It
looks like something that doctors would come up with on their own, but it’s a
full-blown machine learning model based on data and statistics.”

The model has doctors give points to patients based on the patterns and spikes
found in their cEEGs. With a maximum tally of seven, the result provides a
probability estimate of the patient having a seizure at each point interval
ranging from less than five percent to more than 95 percent.

The researchers tested the model against a new set of 2,000 cases and found
that it worked well. Firmly confident in its abilities, the 2HELPS2B model was
then put into service at the University of Wisconsin and Massachusetts General
Hospital, allowing doctors to only use cEEG where it was needed most.

After a year of use, the model resulted in a 63.6 percent reduction in the
duration of cEEG monitoring per patient, allowing nearly three times as many
patients to be monitored while generating a combined cost savings of $6.1
million.

The model is now being used at four more hospitals. If all hospitals
nationwide were to adopt it, the researchers calculate they could save a
collective $54 million each year.

“But more than the cost savings, the 2HELPS2B model is helping us to monitor
people whose seizures would otherwise go unnoticed and untreated,” said
Westover. “And that’s saving lives and saving brains.”

CITATIONS: "Association of an Electroencephalography-Based Risk Score With
Seizure Probability in Hospitalized Patients." Aaron F. Struck, MD; Berk
Ustun, PhD; Andres Rodriguez Ruiz, MD; Jong Woo Lee, MD, PhD; Suzette M.
LaRoche, MD,5; Lawrence J. Hirsch, MD; Emily J. Gilmore, MD; Jan Vlachy, MS;
Hiba Arif Haider, MD; Cynthia Rudin, PhD; M. Brandon Westover, MD, PhD. JAMA
Neurol. 2017;74(12):1419-1424. DOI:10.1001/jamaneurol.2017.2459

“Learning Optimized Risk Scores,” Berk Ustun and Cynthia Rudin. Journal of
Machine Learning Research, 20 (2019) 1-75.

# # #

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

