

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Aaron Kyle: Exploring New Methods to Diversify and Strengthen Engineering
Education

June 30, 2022 | Michaela Kane

New faculty member Aaron Kyle hopes to expand and enhance the biomedical
engineering design programs for students inside and outside Duke

Aaron Kyle will join Duke University’s Department of Biomedical Engineering as
a Professor of the Practice beginning July 1, 2022. With vast experience in
engineering education, Kyle will develop new design courses that will help
students learn how to apply engineering concepts to address biomedical
problems.

Kyle’s work will also extend beyond Duke’s campus, where he’ll help launch
engineering outreach programs to introduce underrepresented minority students
to STEM concepts through biomedical engineering design projects.

Prior to his arrival at Duke, Kyle was a senior lecturer in the Department of
Biomedical Engineering at Columbia University, where his work focused on
improving engineering education for students of all levels. In his new role at
Duke, Kyle will use his expertise to help expand and improve Duke BME’s senior
design and bioinstrumentation courses and Duke Engineering’s signature First-
Year Design program. Kyle will also help launch new design courses for
sophomore and junior BME students. He is also interested in developing
curricular tools for integration of Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Justice
considerations into engineering education.

“My work with engineering education doesn’t just involve being in the
classroom with students and doing the day-to-day work of teaching concepts and
working through projects, but also developing techniques that optimize
learning for the students,” says Kyle. “In that sense, my research is somewhat
unconventional, because it’s more focused on studying how people learn and how
we can then use that knowledge to improve the education practice both inside
and outside of the classroom.”

Kyle will use this innovative approach to closely collaborate with Duke BME
Design educators Eric Richarson, Ann Saterbak, Mark Palmeri and Paul Fearis.
Working with this team, Kyle will create bio design and bioinstrumentation
courses that will grow the existing BME design curriculum, filling in the gap
between the First-Year Design program and the senior design courses.

Kyle will also explore collaborations with clinicians and staff at the Duke
University Medical Center with the goal of identifying new and existing
medical issues for students to address through their design projects. Kyle is
optimistic that these new opportunities will give students a comprehensive,
practical and fulfilling design experience during each year of their
undergraduate career.

“I’ve met a lot of great educators over the years, particularly within the
Duke BME department, so when Eric and the design group reached out to me about
joining their team I was immediately interested in collaborating,” says Kyle.
“I’m excited to work with Duke students, instructors and clinicians, and to
have access to great resources like the Design Pod.”

Kyle will also use the move to forge new collaborations with partners outside
of the Duke community, like principals and teachers at local middle and high
schools. He plans to use these partnerships to develop outreach programs that
can help introduce younger students, particularly underrepresented minority
students, to engineering and to foster an early appreciation for STEM.

“The overarching hypothesis is that by focusing on design, rather than just
conceptual learning exercises, we can support the development of engineering
identity and help give students a genuine, persistent interest in STEM,”
explains Kyle. “The goal is to give these students the tools to identify
problems and the causes of those problems, and then we’ll teach them the
skills to take that knowledge to the lab, build devices, test them out and see
their ideas go from a concept to a finished product.”

Kyle has been leading summer design bootcamps for high school students since
2014, allowing students from the local community to come into university
workspaces and build biomedical devices. Students then use that initial design
knowledge to identify a problem on their own and develop a simple prototype to
address that problem.

These outreach programs have spanned more than 40 successful projects,
including a tool to help people with darker skin identify and detect signs of
melanoma, heart rate monitors for people with sleep apnea, and even a guidance
system for people who are visually impaired, as students found that they are
especially susceptible to injuries above the waist. By working with local
teachers, Kyle has helped created seven design-centric high school classes
that have impacted over 1000 high school students.

“These outreach programs have been a great way to get students involved and
motivated because they’re exploring topics and projects that they themselves
identified and find interesting, but it has also evolved into a big part of my
research,” says Kyle. “These programs are an opportunity for me to explore how
these students, which are often traditionally underrepresented populations in
STEM, can learn best. That research then informs the next year of outreach
programs and courses at Duke.”

With Duke’s support, Kyle is hoping to expand these outreach opportunities to
younger students.

“There is a lot of literature about when students develop an engineering
identity and persistence, and we’re seeing that middle school is a
particularly critical time for minorities and young women. We want to work
with these students at this formative stage, offering short, design hackathons
at Duke throughout the academic year. We hope that this will be an entry point
for younger students, giving the design opportunities in middle and high
school that will motivate them to pursue STEM majors in college.”

Kyle is looking forward to working with the Duke community on these efforts,
leveraging the design instructors and student leaders at Duke to help him
reach and energize the next generation of engineers.

“My approach to engineering education is finding the best ways to teach
students how to identify and solve a problem,” says Kyle. “When we can make
engineering more accessible and enjoyable to more people, we can make
engineering more comprehensive, helpful and inclusive to all.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

