

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Sound Waves Create Whirlpools to Round Up Tiny Signs of Disease

January 26, 2017 | By Ken Kingery

New technique could form the basis of a small, inexpensive point-of-care
device for early disease diagnosis

Mechanical engineers at Duke University have demonstrated a tiny whirlpool
that can concentrate nanoparticles using nothing but sound. The innovation
could gather proteins and other biological structures from blood, urine or
saliva samples for future diagnostic devices.

Early diagnosis is key to successfully treating many diseases, but spotting
early indicators of a problem is often challenging. To pick out the first
warning signs, physicians usually must concentrate scarce proteins, antibodies
or other biomarkers from small samples of a patient’s body fluid to provide
enough of a signal for detection.

While there are many ways to accomplish this today, most are expensive, time-
consuming or too cumbersome to take to the field, and they might require
trained experts. Duke engineers are moving to develop a new device that
addresses these obstacles.

In a new study, researchers paired a small acoustic transducer to a glass
cylinder to produce a whirlpool that can capture these disease-signaling
nanoparticles in its vortex. The system shows early promise for new diagnostic
devices because it is compact, inexpensive, low-energy and does not alter the
properties of the corralled particles.

The results appear online on January 25, 2017, in the journal American
Chemical Society Nano.

“Diagnosis impacts about 70 percent of healthcare decisions,” said Tony Huang,
professor of mechanical engineering and materials science at Duke. “If we can
improve the quality of diagnostics while reducing its costs, then we can
tremendously improve the entire healthcare system.”

The new technology relies on calculating and manipulating the effects of the
two forces associated with sound waves—acoustic radiation and acoustic
streaming. If you’ve ever blown air across the top of a bottle to create a
tone, then you’re familiar with the latter. Acoustic streaming is the same
phenomenon but in reverse, where a vibrating body induces a fluid to flow.

Acoustic radiation is also easy to visualize—just think of any cartoon where a
giant loudspeaker knocks somebody off of their feet. While that scenario is
unlikely to occur without killing someone, sound is nothing more than a
traveling pressure wave, and it does push on whatever it encounters. Devices
have used this phenomenon to concentrate particles before, but it does not
provide enough force on its own once particles drop to the nanoscale.

In the new device, a small, 5-volt acoustic transducer creates a standing
sound wave aimed toward a long, thin glass vial. Because the vial is
perpendicular to the sound wave, and because Huang’s team has precisely tuned
the two to each other, the vibrations in the glass create a standing vortex
along the vial’s axis. The whirlpool sucks in any particles suspended in the
test liquid—such as those extracted from blood or urine samples—while the
acoustic radiation keeps them there.

In the study, fluorescent markers help make suspended nanoparticles more
visible. But in an actual diagnostic device, Huang says that wouldn’t be
necessary.

“My goal is to create a small diagnostic device about the size of a cell phone
that can autonomously separate biomarkers from samples,” said Huang. “With
this vortex technology, the biomarkers could then be concentrated enough to
see with a simple camera like the ones found in today’s cellular phones.”

Huang now plans to work on other components of such a device, and to
collaborate with scientists at Duke Health to test the new vortex technology
in disease diagnosis.

This work was supported by the National Institutes of Health (R01 HD086325)
and the National Science Foundation (IDBR-1455658).

“Enriching Nanoparticles via Acoustofluidics.” Zhangming Mao, Peng Li, Mengxi
Wu, Hunter Bachman, Nicolas Mesyngier, Xiasheng Guo, Sheng Liu, Francesco
Costanzo, and Tony Jun Huang. ACS Nano, 2017. DOI: 10.1021/acsnano.6b06784

###

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

