

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Alumni Profile: Edmund T. Pratt Jr.

May 3, 2013

Former chairman and CEO, Pfizer, Inc.

**Graduation Year:** 1947

**Degree at Duke:**  
Bachelor of Science

**Major/Program:**  
Electrical Engineering

**Career Highlights:**

  * Rose from salesman to controller of IBM World Trade Corp. during his 14
    years with IBM
  * Recruited to serve as Assistant Secretary for Financial Management for the
    U.S. Army during the Kennedy administration
  * Presided for nearly 20 years as chairman and CEO of Pfizer, Inc., during
    which the pharmaceutical giant's annual revenues grew from $1 billion to
    nearly $7 billion
  * Duke Trustee from 1977 to 1988

Ed Pratt came a very long way since the scorching June day in 1944 when he
first laid eyes on the Duke University campus. As a young man of humble means
but, in his own words, "full of aggressive enthusiasm and a fierce desire to
succeed," he had been sent to Duke's School of Engineering on a Navy V-12
program scholarship. Today, in honor of the $35 million gift he gave in 1999,
his alma mater bears his name.

In the interim, Pratt used his dynamic blend of analytical skills, boundless
energy, and personal charisma to forge a highly successful career. Throughout
his years at IBM and in the Kennedy Administration, Pratt had always dreamed
of leading a dynamic, successful company that was also "a fun place to go to
work"-and soon after he joined Pfizer as corporate controller in 1964, he got
his chance. The venerable drug firm had made its mark and its fortunes with
innovations including a novel method for manufacturing citric acid (used
widely in food processing) and the mass production of penicillin during World
War II. A mere eight years after he joined Pfizer, just as the company passed
$1 billion in annual sales, Pratt was named chairman and CEO-a turn of events
he describes as "lucky."

If so, it was the kind of luck that happens when preparation meets
opportunity. "I'm a people person, and that's what I brought to Pfizer," Pratt
said. "I told my colleagues that if we were creative, had fun, and worked
hard, we could be among the best of the best. I dared to ask brilliant
scientists to do things that weren't necessarily in their job descriptions."
It was a deceptively simple—and dazzlingly successful—formula: During Pratt's
leadership of Pfizer, the company's annual revenues multiplied to nearly $7
billion.

Pratt was modest about his own technological abilities. "Familiarity with
technological thinking and principles is certainly a help in a technical
business, but you don't have to be a technician to be a good manager," he
said. "Your basic instincts and the talents you're born with also have a lot
to do with how you end up handling yourself through life. Yet, even though
pure engineering ability had very little to do with my success, there's no
doubt in my mind that I would go to engineering school at Duke again."

Pratt was just as positive and plain-spoken when discussing his vision for the
remarkably generous gift he's made to the School. "While I plan to be
available, and hope to be kept informed, I haven't earmarked the money with
any specific directives," he said. "I have complete confidence in my alma
mater and in Dean Johnson. What makes any venture successful is the right
leadership and the right resources, and the School has both."

Pratt died of cancer Sept. 5, 2002, at the age of 75.

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

