

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Bacterial Genes Boost Current in Human Cells

October 18, 2016 | By Ken Kingery

Borrowing and tweaking bacterial genes to Enhance electrical activity might
treat heart, nervous system injury

Duke University biomedical engineers have harvested genes for ion channels
from bacteria that, with a few tweaks, can create and enhance electrical
signaling in human cells, making the cells more electrically excitable.

The technique could one day be used to treat cardiac arrhythmia or to restore
electrical functions to scarred heart or nervous system tissues. It might also
prove useful for treating a variety of genetic diseases involving poor
conductivity in human sodium and calcium channels.

The study appears online in Nature Communications on October 18.

In mammals, the genes controlling the sodium ion channels responsible for a
cell’s electrical activity are surprisingly large. Too large, unfortunately,
to be readily delivered to cells through a virus—standard procedure in modern
gene therapy techniques.

To skirt this size issue, the Duke team delivered smaller ion channels
engineered from bacterial genes to primary human cells in a laboratory
setting. With the replacement channels, cells that don’t normally produce
electrical signals became electrically active, and cells that normally produce
signals did so more strongly.

“In current medical practice, there is nothing that can be done to stably
augment the electrical excitability of cells in the heart or brain,” said
Nenad Bursac, professor of biomedical engineering at Duke. “There are no drugs
that can efficiently do it, and any mammalian genes that might help are too
large for gene therapy applications. Our technique, however, uses much smaller
bacterial ion channels that proved successful in human cells in the
laboratory. We’re currently testing this in live animals.”

While bacterial genes encoding sodium channels are different than their human
counterparts, evolution has conserved many similarities of ion channel design
since multi-celled animals diverged from bacteria hundreds of millions of
years ago.

Hung Nguyen, a doctoral student in Bursac’s laboratory, mutated these
bacterial genes so that channels they encode could become active in human
cells.

In one experiment, the researchers placed cultured cells in several parallel
lines, alternating between electrically active and inactive cells. When
stimulated at one end, the electrical signal traveled across the lines very
slowly.

The researchers then delivered three genes to the electrically inactive cells:
one bacterial gene for a sodium ion channel and two supporting genes encoding
a potassium channel and connexin-43, a protein that helps shuttle electrical
signals between cells.

When delivered to unexcitable cells taken from the skin, heart and brain, the
trio of genes caused the cells to become electrically active, speeding up the
electrical signals as they raced across the lines.

“You could imagine using this to alter electrically dead cardiac scar tissue
after a heart attack to bridge gaps between healthy cells,” said Nguyen, who
also points out that all three genes are small enough to be delivered
simultaneously by a single virus.

Nguyen and Bursac also showed that the gene encoding the bacterial sodium
channel could, by itself, enhance the excitability of cells that are already
electrically active. In a second experiment, they delivered the sodium channel
gene to cardiomyocytes—electrically active heart cells—in conditions mimicking
various diseases or stressful situations, such as a heart attack.

“In those pathological conditions, these cells become electrically silent,”
said Bursac. “But when we add the bacterial channel, we can keep them
conducting electrical signals under more severe conditions.”

Nguyen adds that this work contributes to a growing body of research that is
looking to so-called “primitive” organisms for help with our own health.

“There’s a large pool of bacterial species whose sodium channels might have
slightly different electrical characteristics to draw from,” said Nguyen.
“These channels can be also modified to pass calcium ions. We’re developing a
framework for others to begin exploring these opportunities.”

“I think this work is really exciting,” said Bursac. “We’re basically
borrowing from bacteria to eventually help humans suffering from heart or
brain diseases.”

This work was supported by an American Heart Association Predoctoral
Fellowship (PRE 16790012) and the National Institutes of Health (HL104326,
HL132389, HL126524, HL126193).

CITATION: “Engineering prokaryotic channels for control of mammalian tissue
excitability,” Hung X. Nguyen, Robert D. Kirkton, and Nenad Bursac. Nature
Communications, Online Oct. 18, 2016. DOI: 10.1038/NCOMMS13132

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

