

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# Ambassador Inducts Bejan as Knight of the French Order of Academic Palms

February 25, 2020

Duke professor receives one of the oldest and most prestigious honors
presented to academics by the French government

Adrian Bejan, the the J.A. Jones Distinguished Professor of Mechanical
Engineering at Duke University, was presented with the insignia of Knight of
the French Order of Academic Palms by Hon. Philippe Étienne, ambassador of
France to the United States, on Thursday, February 20, 2020.

Known in its native tongue as L’Ordre des Palmes Académiques, the Order was
established in 1808 by Emperor Napoleon I to honor accomplished members of the
University of Paris. Its three ranks—knight, officer and commander—have since
been extended to those who make major contributions to the expansion of French
culture in France or the rest of the world.

“This order is one of the oldest and most prestigious honors presented to
academics by the French government,” said Étienne in remarks at the ceremony.
“Dr. Adrian Bejan, as we all know, you have been dedicating your life to
science from your first year as a student at MIT. Your interdisciplinary
pioneering contributions to modern thermodynamics as well as your discovery
and development of the contructal law, which predicts the natural design of
engineering, scientific and social systems, have made you one of the top 100
most cited authors worldwide in engineering. Because of the outstanding
scientist and prolific writer that you are, this ceremony cannot possibly
contain enough hours to mention the remarkable numbers of your publications
and awards.”

“I am absolutely delighted to be here to celebrate one of our most eminent
faculty members,” said Vincent Price, president of Duke University. “Adrian, I
have to tell you I’m a bit jealous. Not many Blue Devils can call themselves
knight. Congratulations, this is a wonderful achievement.”

Bejan is also a faculty member in the Duke Energy Initiative. His work in
engineering science and applied physics spans thermodynamics, design and
evolution. In 2019, he was ranked among the top 0.01 percent of leading world
scientists based on impact of citations and among the top 10 of engineering
scholars worldwide, according to a study published in PLOS Biology.

During his career, Bejan has authored more than 650 peer-refereed articles and
30 books. His newest book, “Freedom and Evolution,” explains how many familiar
concepts have a foundation in physics and engineering.

“This is indeed a huge honor. I have the deepest respect for the contributions
France has made to Europe, America and Western civilization as a whole,” said
Bejan in accepting the honor. “The first modern engineering university was
founded in Paris on the Left Bank in 1794. The first museum of science and
technology was founded in Paris in the same year on the Right Bank.

“Most of the words, units of measure, and symbols of science originate in
French. Science, as we teach and practice it today, was embraced by the whole
world. France played a big part in creating this empowering knowledge, and
this is why I feel at home among French ideas, books and colleagues. This is
why I am so honored today.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

