

Skip to main content

  * Departments & Centers
    * Overview
    * Biomedical Engineering
    * Civil & Environmental Engineering
    * Electrical & Computer Engineering
    * Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science
    * Institute for Enterprise Engineering
  * Alumni & Parents
    * Overview
    * Alumni
    * Parents
    * Giving
    * Board of Visitors
    * Our History
    * Email Newsletter
    * Meet the Team
  * Corporate Partners
    * Overview
    * Partners & Sponsors
    * Data Science & AI Industry Affiliates
    * Connect With Students
    * Recruiting Our Students
    * Sponsored Research
    * TechConnect Career Networking
  * Apply
  * Careers
  * Directory

  * Undergraduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. Majors & Minors
        2. Certificates
        3. General Degree Requirements
        4. 4+1: BSE+Master's Degree
        5. Campus Tours
        6. How to Apply

      2. First-Year Design
      3. Student Entrepreneurship
      4. Undergraduate Research
      5. Where Our Undergrads Go
      6. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      7. For Current Students
        1. The First Year
        2. Advising
        3. Student Clubs & Teams
        4. Graduation with Distinction
        5. Internships
        6. Policies & Procedures

  * Graduate
    *       1. For Prospective Students
        1. PhD Programs
        2. Master's Degrees
        3. Online Specializations, Certificates and Short Courses
        4. Admissions Events
        5. How to Apply

      2. For Admitted Students
      3. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
        1. Bootcamp for Applicants
        2. Recruiting Incentives

      4. For Current Grad Students
        1. Graduate Student Programs & Services

  * Faculty & Research
    *       1. Faculty
        1. Faculty Profiles
        2. New Faculty
        3. Awards and Recognition
        4. NAE Members

      2. Research
        1. Signature Research Themes
        2. Recent External Funding Awards
        3. Faculty Entrepreneurship
        4. Duke Engineering Discoveries

  * About
    *       1. Dean's Welcome
      2. Campus & Tours
      3. Facts & Rankings
      4. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      5. Service to Society
      6. Entrepreneurship
      7. Governance
      8. News & Media
        1. Latest News
        2. Podcast
        3. Email Newsletter
        4. Publications
        5. Media Coverage
        6. Public Health Information

      9. Events
        1. Events Calendar
        2. Academic Calendar
        3. Commencement

      10. Art @ Duke Engineering

## You are here

Home » About » News & Media

# An Immigrant's Story: How 3 Decades in the U.S. Shaped Ravi Bellamkonda

August 26, 2019 | by Gregory Phillips

Duke Engineering dean arrived in Rhode Island knowing few people and without a
plan for his future

_From Duke Today_

On Aug. 26, 1989, Ravi Bellamkonda flew from India to the United States, where
he didn't know a soul.

"I had never been on an airplane before," he said. The 21-year-old had a spot
in grad school at Brown University in Rhode Island, and $800 in cash to live
on until his fellowship kicked in.

Thirty years later, Bellamkonda is a pioneering biomedical engineer, dean of
Duke’s Pratt School of Engineering and a U.S. citizen. His journey as an
immigrant and a scientist has shaped both who he is and the importance he
attaches to training the engineers and leaders of the future.

“The world is not already made, it’s not a system you just have to figure
out,” he said. “We as individuals can help create and shape this world,
whoever we are.”

As a boy, Bellamkonda hoped to be a doctor, but found biomedical engineering
combined his interests in math and medicine.

“It was made for me,” he said.

When he arrived in the U.S., Bellamkonda stayed for a week with two German
brothers he’d never met, computer scientists, who took him in just because he
was the friend of a friend of a friend. Then he found a roommate who covered
his half of the deposit for an apartment until his fellowship started paying.

”It was tight, that first month,” he said. “There were many people who were
very kind to me.”

Bellamkonda had no plans to stay in the United States after school. He didn’t
even intend to complete a Ph.D. Then he had what he now calls a revolutionary
moment -- when he asked his graduate adviser a research question and was told
no one knew the answer, and that he should design an experiment to find it
himself.

“The idea that nobody in the world knew this thing – it was about how to grow
brain cells in gel – and that someone like me, who didn’t even know if I
wanted to be a scientist, could design an experiment to find out, was mind-
boggling to me,” he said. “It showed me what a leveler science is – that a
student could find out something nobody knew.”

> " When we're young, we think about what we want to be – a doctor, a
> scientist, an entrepreneur – but not enough time thinking about who we want
> to be. We need to keep track of that, too. You have to be anchored on the
> inside, and not the outside."
>
> Ravi Bellamkonda

Today, he studies brain cancer, which typically spreads before it’s diagnosed,
making it impossible to remove. So Bellamkonda’s work focuses on how cancer
cells in the brain can be moved. His team created a tumor monorail, a filament
that mimics the nerves along which brain cancer cells tend to travel, which
lures the cells to the edge of the brain where they can be neutralized. The
U.S. Food and Drug Administration has named it a “Breakthrough Device.”

He’s also experimenting with electrical fields that can nudge the cells to
move in a certain direction, and with tumor-seeking bacteria that are drawn to
brain cancer cells and can kill them where they are.

“Brain cancer survival rates haven’t changed since 1968, simply because the
cancer cells move around,” he said. “As an engineer fooling around with a
serious thing like cancer research, I’d rather be out of that business, but
all ideas are welcome until we figure it out. Patients don’t have the luxury
of time to wait.”

His desire to contribute – and the ability to effect change – was what spurred
Bellamkonda to look beyond the classroom and lab and toward a leadership role,
where he could help shape curriculum and learning experiences.

“When we’re young, we think about what we want to be – a doctor, a scientist,
an entrepreneur – but not enough time thinking about who we want to be,” said
Bellamkonda, who came to Duke in 2016 to lead Pratt. “We need to keep track of
that, too. You have to be anchored on the inside, and not the outside.

“If you want to be a doctor, you know what courses you need to take. But what
do you need to do to become the person you want to become? Maybe it will just
happen, but this is too important to be left to chance. Whether that comes
from spirituality, music, reading – there are many ways to get there -- but we
need to be intentional about doing things that nourish our soul.”

Moving to the U.S. – and later becoming a U.S. citizen – was part of
Bellamkonda’s version of that journey.

“Giving up your nationality is a big deal,” he said. “I have deep gratitude
toward India for investing in me. At the same time, I live here and I felt
strongly about contributing my voice to shaping what America is, and what it
will become.

“As an immigrant you tend to look at the system afresh. The American idea is
powerfully aspirational and noble, and I didn’t want to cede the definition of
what it could be – because it is being written still – to those I didn’t feel
were interpreting it the right way. I wanted to actively add my voice to
shaping what it is, and what it becomes.”

That is why it’s so important to Bellamkonda to help students be centered
while living and studying in a country that offers so many choices that it can
sometimes seem overwhelming.

“When I arrived, it was assumed there would be other Indian students who would
be my friends,” he added. “And some of them did become close friends, but my
closest friends were not all of Indian origin. In the U.S., we have a melting
pot with people from everywhere, and the people you resonate with can be from
anywhere. It was a powerful realization for me that when we say ‘us,’ we can
mean anyone.”

outrageously ambitious

  *   *   *   *   *

© Copyright 2011-2023 Duke University | Pratt Intranet

